DIRECTIONS to the BOOK-BINDER.

The Plates are to be inserted as follows:

General Plan of a County Gaol, between Pages 48 and 49.

Plan of La Maison de Force, Ghent, - 140 and 141.

Plan of Newgate, - 152 and 15;.

Tab. III. being continued over from P. 480 to 481, Care is to be taken that the Lines coincide.

APPENDIX

TO THE

STATE OF THE PRISONS, &c.

APPENDIX

TO THE

STATE OF THE PRISONS

IN

ENGLAND AND WALES,

&C.

By JOHN HOWARD, F.R.S.

CONTAINING A FARTHER ACCOUNT OF

FOREIGN PRISONS AND HOSPITALS,

WITH ADDITIONAL REMARKS ON THE

PRISONS OF THIS COUNTRY.

Parum est coercere Improbos Poena,

nisi Probos efficias Disciplina.

WARRINGTON,

PRINTED BY WILLIAM EYRES;

AND SOLD BY T. CADELL IN THE STRAND, AND N. CONANT IN FLEET-STREET, LONDON.

MDCCLXXX.

CONTENTS.

Page

Foreign Prisons and Hospitals - 4.

English Prisoners of War in France - 90.

French Prisoners in England - 94.

American Prisoners - 101.

Scotch Prisons - 103.

Irish Prisons - 108.

Hulks on the Thames - 112.

English Prisons - 117.

Tables - 196.

APPENDIX.

THE House of Commons having taken under consideration the regulation of prisons, I thought myself bound, by the promise made in the conclusion of my late publication, to collect such farther hints as I might be able to procure in several foreign Territories there mentioned. I therefore visited them and some other countries, and shall subjoin those remarks which seemed most worthy of attention.

In the Draught of a Bill "to punish by Imprisonment and Hard Labour, certain Offenders; and to establish proper Places for their Reception,*" the plan was formed on the Rasp and Spin-houses in Holland. This made me more solicitous to gain the best information, by a fresh inspection, and by conversation with intelligent men. In pursuance of this design, I went to Holland in April 1778, and cheerfully entered on the intended business of my journey at

* This has since passed into an Act, 19th George III. Cap. LXXIV.

4 APPENDIX.

ROTTERDAM,

[Stadt-house.]

WHERE I revisited the Stadt-house prison, in which were no debtors in either of the three rooms. When there are any, they are alimented at one fixed sum, viz. sixteen stivers.* There are seven rooms for criminals or disorderly persons. One of them is called the condemned room, into which a criminal is put fourteen days before his final sentence; and immediately after the sentence, he is executed with a solemnity very striking to the common people. In three of the rooms, were three persons confined for a limited time for some small offences, and kept to bread and water. Their daily allowance was from four to five stivers, and their pitcher was filled with water three times a day; but the other criminals had their pitcher filled once a day with beer, and their allowance was from nine to ten stivers. There were cases with thick straw mats, and two or three coverlids to each.

[Rasp-house.]

In the Rasp-house (or Spin-house, as it should more properly be called) the thirty-eight men who were there, were spinning, except two who were cutting or rasping logwood, and a few who were carding wool, making fishing-nets, and sorting coffee-berries. The women were all employed in spinning, carding, or winding at a great wheel. They were clean, and appeared healthy and well. I observed the ceiling

* A guinea 252d. is = 11 guilders 11 stivers = 231 stivers (for 20 stivers is a guilder) therefore stivers are to pence as 231/252 = 11/12 i.e. 11 stivers is equal to a shilling.

HOLLAND. 5

[Rotterdam rasp-house.]

to be white: one of the directors informed me that it was white-washed regularly twice a year.

The men were more separated than the women, into rooms which measured about fourteen feet by seventeen, and each of which contained only four or five. For preventing combinations, two of them are removed every ten or fourteen days, to different companies. In those rooms were some Jews, whose dinner was not pork, as was that of the other prisoners, but mutton, which their society in the city sent them, with a slice of white bread, by permission of one of the five regents or inspectors.*

The whipping-post is in the middle of the yard, in full view of the men criminals. For the more refractory, there are dark rooms, but not dungeons: in one of these, on shutting the door on myself, I found no dampness. My conductor observed, that the floor was raised to preserve it dry. Here they are allowed no bedding, and are kept to bread and water, which is given them at an aperture in the door. Their confinement is for six, eight, ten, or fourteen days.

The keeper has a salary from the city, of four hundred florins or guilders per annum,† and also a house, victuals and drink, firing and candle, and one seventh part of the produce of all the labour of the prisoners; so that it is his interest to fee that the work be well per-

* As I was there at one o’clock, the time of the distribution, I observed that the bread was all cut in slices: this prevents those Cornells or frauds which sometimes happen where prisoners mess together, and the bread is given out in one loaf, as I saw on board the hulks in the Thames, where one loaf was given to six persons.

† About £36.

6 APPENDIX.

Rotterdam Rasp-house.

formed: yet as the quantum is fixed by the regents, it is not in his power to be a cruel task-master. The manner of dieting the prisoners seemed to me worthy of being inserted at length in the note below.*

Being at Rotterdam on a Sunday, I was desirous of seeing, whether there was such dissipation in their prisons, as there is in ours, on that

* Regulation for the daily diet, at the Rasp-house at Rotterdam.

Sunday Dinner. Each man has a mess of boiled grout, with butter or kitchen-stuff; a piece of cheese or butter, with a quarter of a pound of rye breed.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or such as only work half-task, a mess of grout, as above; a piece of cheese or butter, with one sixth of a pound of rye bread.

Ditto Supper. Each man a bowl of new milk boiled with barley or flour, with a piece of cheese, and one fourth of a pound of rye bread.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or such as only do half-task, the bowl of sweet milk as above, but no bread or cheese.

Monday Breakfast. Each man half a pound of rye bread with cheese or butter. Each boy, woman, or half-tasked, one fourth of a pound of rye bread with butter or Cheese.

N.B. Breakfast through the week, is the same as above.

Monday Dinner. Each man half a pound of meat, or one sixth of a pound of pork without bone; half a pound of rye bread, with a bowl of boiled carrots, cabbage or greens.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or half-tasked, one third of a pound of meat, or one eighth of a pound of pork without bone, three eighths of a pound of rye. bread, with a bowl of boiled carrots, cabbage or greens.

Tuesday Dinner. For all, boiled gray pease, with one fourth of a pound of rye bread; the men have, besides, each a piece of cheese.

Wednesday Dinner. Each man a bowl of pease porridge, with three eighths of a pound of rye bread and a piece of cheese.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or half-tasked, a bowl of pease porridge, one fourth of a pound of rye bread, with a piece of cheese.

Thursday Dinner. Each man, one third of a pound of meat, or one eighth of a pound of pork without bone; two slices of rye bread, weighing together half a pound, with a bowl of barley broth.

HOLLAND. 7

Rotterdam Rasp-house.

day. The public service at the Rasp-house began at half after one o’clock. The audience consisted of about thirty or forty inhabitants of the town, Mr. Schumaker the presiding regent, the head-keeper and his family, and three under-keepers, besides the prisoners. The number of women prisoners was about forty, who were separated from the rest of the congregation by a wooden palisade, and seated on benches

[Note continued.]

Thursday Dinner. Boys, or men who only do half-task, one fourth of a pound of meat, or one twelfth of a pound of pork without bone; two slices of rye bread, weighing together three eighths of a pound, with each a bowl of barley broth. Ditto ditto. The women, no meat or pork; each a bowl of barley broth, with three eighths of a pound of rye bread with butter or cheese.

Friday Dinner. Each man a bowl of kidney-bean porridge; three eighths of a pound of rye bread with cheese.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or half-tasked, the mess of kidney-bean porridge; one fourth of a pound of rye bread with cheese.

Saturday Dinner. Each man a bowl of boiled pease, with butter and vinegar sauce; boys, women and half-tasked, have the same allowance; and all have the same allowance of rye bread and cheese as on the Fridays.

The constant supper, on week days, for all, is butter milk boiled with barley or grout till thick enough to be eaten without bread; to this, each man has one fourth of a pound of rye bread with cheese; the boys, women and half-tasked have only a mess of the butter milk, but no bread or cheese.

Cans.

Each man has, during the three summer months, daily, of beer, - 2½

and during the three winter months, ditto ditto - 1½

and during the remaining six months, ditto ditto - 2

Boys, women and half-tasked for the three summer months, each, daily, - 1½

and for the remaining nine months, ditto ditto - 1

In the foregoing regulation for diet, no alteration is to be made, unless when fish shall be extraordinarily cheap and plentiful, all the prisoners may be indulged with one meal, provided with the consent of all the regents, or of a majority of them.

8 APPENDIX.

Rotterdam Rasp-house.

raised one above another. They were all clean and neat; had nothing distinguishing in their dress, but were without hats. While they stood up during prayer, they held up their aprons to cover their faces. The men were neat, dressed in brown coats, had been shaved, had clean shirts (which were most of them chequed), clean stockings, and wore handkerchiefs about their necks. They also were seated on raised benches, in a room out of the chapel, and separated from it by an iron grating, from the top of the room to the bottom, so wide that all the audience, except the female prisoners, had them full in view. The keeper’s seat adjoins to this grating, and two of his servants, who are turnkeys, sat observing their behaviour.

The chaplain, after a short prayer, preached extempore; then, the men convicts joined in singing, most of them having books: When the chaplain had prayed again, he catechised for about three quarters of an hour. It being the women's turn that Sunday, six of them stood up, one after another, and made the responses, which the chaplain explained to them. After this he prayed, and the service concluded by singing the fifty-first Psalm. The decent behaviour and attention of the audience, evidently proved that the service, though of two hours and an half, was not tedious or disagreeable.

---

During the time of catechising, the head-keeper and one of his servants went out, to inspect the empty wards, and to search whether any tools or instruments were concealed. The keeper returned to his feat in an hour. At the end of the service, the women passed by the regent’s feat, * and when they were gone, he went into the court

* The feat is large enough for all the five regents or inspectors: but only one is obliged to attend, and this they do by rotation.

to

HOLLAND.

9

to fee the men go to their several wards, four or five together,* that Rotterdam

number only being let out a time. After they were all locked up, hou'e.

he went to each window, and conversed with them. Many of them returned their thanks for the abridgment of their term of confinement,

as this was just before the time for eledling new magistrates. One or

two, who had been at sea, in treated to go in any capacity to India,

as is sometimes permitted. He afterwards went to the grates of the

women's wards, and conversed with them; and gave the catechumens

some token of his approbation.

I cannot forbear closing this account, with mentioning the ardent wishes it inspired in me, that our pril'ons also, instead of ecchoing with profanenels and blasphemy, might hereafter refound with the offices of religious worffiip; and prove, like these, the happy means of awakening many to a lense of their duty to God and man.

At La Porte, the prison at Goude, there is a small room for debtors, Goude. which the keeper informed me had not been occupied since 1761.

There are many (odlagon) rooms, but all empty: some are assigned to those who are committed for small offences, and kept to bread and water, for which there is an allowance to each of them of three stivers a day. — In the Spin-hcufe the prisoners were all employed in carding and spinning wool for stockings. On observing little towels hanging in one room, they told me, that each of them had one clean every week. Here were some prisoners from the Hague, and other towns which have no rasp-houses, who were admitted at a stipulated

* They were not chained, for no irons are here used.

B

annual

io

Goude.

Harlem Spin-house.

Harlem Hospital

APPENDIX.

annual sum, of about a hundred and ten florins for each, besides fifteen for cloathing. — Near this city is inclosed a triangular gallows, with an inscription over the gate,

ReEfe faciendo neminem timeas.

The bell translation of which may be the words of Scripture, <c The righteous is bold as a lion. ”

At Harlem, the Spin-house (which is the work-house or poor-hoitfe') being old, is not so airy and commodious as modern buildings. Here were about thirty male and fifteen female offenders. The latter were at work with the mother (as they call her) making and mending the linen of the house. The former were weaving coarse linen, in which, at the distance of every fix inches, there was a blue stripe, to distinguish the linen of the house, and to prevent its being in any manner disposed of elsewhere. One person was working at a loom on flowered silk damask, because that had heen his former trade. Taylors were also employed in the way of their profession. The room in which the women worked, and that in which they slept, were quite clean. Each bed had two persons allotted to it, and they were all allowed sheets. The poor here, as in other ‘werk-hou/es in Holland, were cleanly and decently clad.

In this city is a noble hospital, a:ry and spacious, called the Proeveniers, in which the persons admitted are decently provided with meat, drink and lodging during their lives, and a burying-place at their decease. Persons of all ages from twenty to the most advanced period are admitted, though it is not common for any under forty to

apply

HOLLAND.

apply for admission. At entrance, each person pays a greater or smaller sum, according to his age, as by the table in the note.* A common table is provided for all who are not sick or infirm. If any, after residing some time, choose to have their victuals brought to their rooms, rather than eat in common, they mull pay for that privilege according to their age, one fifth part of the sum that would be required for admission at that age. For example, if a person of seventy years of age chooses to eat in his apartments, he must pay one fifth of the admission money required at the age of seventy, namely, four hundred and twenty florins.

It often happens that there are not vacant places, when persons define admission. But many secure places before a vacancy, by paying two hundred florins in advance of their entrance money in consequence of which, their names are inscribed in a list ■, and the money dedutted from the sum required when they enter.

Age. Sum. Florins.

20 — 5000

22 4900

24 — 4800

26 4700

23 — 4600

30 — 4500

3- 4400

34 — 4300

36 — 4150

33 - 4050

Age. Sum.

Florins.

40 — 39°°

42 — 3800

44 — 3700

46 — 355°

48 0 •-n H" to 1

5° — 3300

52 0 TO 1

54 — 3000

56 — 2900

5S — 2750

B 2

Age. Sum.

Florins,

60 — 2700

62 — 2600

64 — 2500

66 — 2350

68 2200

7° 2100

72 — *95°

74 — 1800

76 — 1700

78 — 1600

80 — 1500

11

Harlem

Hospital,

Those

I 2

APPENDIX.

Harlem Those who choose to leave the house entirely, receive, during the remainder of their lives, a certain, though very finall, interest of the sum which they paid at admission.*

Amsterdam At Amsterdam I more than once revisited the prisons. At the house. Stadt-house were eighteen debtors; and there were five criminals, but their offences not being capital, all the strong rooms under ground were empty. The debtors are on the ground-floor. I often conversed with them, and found that they w ere all alimented alike: the first fourteen days at eleven stivers (a shilling) a day j after that time at five stivers and a half. But this is paid to the gaoler, who has great profit out of it, as appeared from the daily allowance which I weighed several times. Each debtor has from the city one quart of beer daily, and turf for firing. The rooms were clean, though the prisoners are never out of them, unless twice in a year at the times of white -washing.

From a book containing the names and crimes of all who have been executed at Amsterdam, from January 1693 to the end of 1766, 1 find it necessary to retract the assertion cc that for a hundred years <c past there have not been executed, communibus aunts, more than “ one a year.” From this publication, the following state of executions at different periods are drawn.

From 1693 to 1735 (43 years) 288.

1736 - 1745 (10 years) 20.

1746 — 1766 (21 years) 28.

And I have been well informed. that in the three years preceding

my last visit, there was only one criminal executed, who was beheaded.

* For this account I am indebted to Dr. Maclaine, the worthy minilter of the Er.glish church at the Hague.

And

HOLLAND.

An observation before escaped me, concerning the attention of the magistrates to the children of the malefactors who are executed. They are sent to the orphan-house, and there brought up in industry, and not left destitute vagabonds, to become unhappy victims to the wickedness and folly of their parents.

Perhaps the computation which I have mentioned of two hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants in this city may be too great;* though, if I mistake not, Mr. Karjfehoom, some time since, estimated them at two hundred and forty-three thousand; and of late, many Jews banished from other countries have made an addition to the number. But Dr. Price reckons that they hardly amount to two hundred thousand. f

The four regents^ who manage the Rasp-house are appointed by the burgomasters, to whom they are accountable. The gaoler or father

* Deaths in 1776, - - 8982.

1777, - - 8939.

The numbers marked at the Stadt-house, when I was there in June 1778,

The first week, - - 121.

second week, - - 138.

f See his Observations on Reversionary Payments, p. 186, 187. 3d edition.

t It may be proper to mention, that these Regents have no salaries, but only some privileges and honorary distinttions; as exemption from the city watch; liberty of free entrance after one of the city gates is Ihut; and a deacon’s feat in the church.

Amsterdam.

Rasp-house.

IS

APPENDIX.

Amsterdam

Rasp-house.

is driftly obliged to obey all the orders of the high-officer, the burgomaders, and also of the regents. In no case may he, or any of his family, receive a gift from the prisoners or their friends, either before or after their enlargement. He mud not entrud a servant with the keys, but mud himself carefully searchthe convicts and their cots, or rooms, before he locks them up in the evening, at fix o’clock in summer, and at four in winter. The father mud never be abl'ent for a night, without special permission. He is feverelv punished if any prisoner escapes. He mud register in order all acts concerning commitments and discharges, and produce them to the regents when required. Also he must keep an exafl register of the cloaths, and all other things which belong to those confined.

The regents assemble in the house at four o’clock every Wednesday afternoon, to collect and examine the transactions of the preceding week. They appoint a servant to give any necessary affidance to the father, and particularly to cut the slices of bread for the prisoners; and when the father is ill, in the evening to visit and examine the cots.

In the nine lower rooms of this house, in June 1778, were confined upwards of forty prisoners. Each of these rooms, in which they work in the day and are locked up at night, contains at lead four persons. The fame prisoners do not continue long together, but are removed and separated once a fortnight or oftener. Few or none of them were rasping logwood, but most of them chopping it, for the two mills belonging to the house: for it was found to be too laborious for mod of the prisoners, to work with fix or eight saws, which often weigh seventy or eighty pounds. The medical

HOLLAND. 15

gentlemen, who daily visit the prison, informed the magistrates that it had been the cause of frequent ruptures.*

No friends of the prisoners are permitted to visit them, without express orders from the regents, unless on Mondays: and then they mu ft be searched, to prevent the introduction of spirituous liquors, or instruments for breaking out, or any thing else forbidden: and they must retire before the time for Ihutting up. Every visitant is obliged to put two stivers into a box entrusted with the father. Refreshments may be received and given to the ronvidts on Tuesdays; but not on other days. Every evening, at eight o’clock, the father must lee that all things are in due order. The saws, and other heavy implements for their work, are taken from them in the evening, and returned in the morning. If a convict be guilty of breaking any thing considerable, or of neglect or disobedience, he is punished severely by whipping, or confined to bread and water in a dungeon -under ground.

Prayers are read morning and evening, and before and after meals, by one of the best-behaved convicts: and divine service, with a sermon, is performed by a clergyman on Sunday mornings.

Once a year, a little before the change of the regency, the high-officer and magistrates, with a secretary, attended by the inferior officers of justice, come to this prison, in order to contrast or lengthen

* I had this information from Mr. John Hope, one of their very worthy magistrates; and to him I am much obliged for copies of the rules and instructions to this house, the spin-house, and the ’work-house.

Amsterdam

Rasp-house.

16 APPENDIX.

Amsterdam Rasp-house.

the terms of confinement of the couvifts, according to their good ot bad behaviour, as represented by the regents.

The house provides for the prisoners diet,* cloaths, shoes and stockings, with shirts of half-bleached Flemish linen.

Some persons are confined in private rooms, to which none have access, unless in the presence of a regent. Great care is enjoined the

* Thf diet of the coiivifts in the Rasp-house in Amsterdam.

Sunday Breakfast. Three slices of rye bread with butter, and a piece of dry bread fix slices thick. (N. B. Three f.ices weigh half a found.)

----- Dinner or Noon. Half a pound of beef or pork, with beans, salt and

vinegar, and in winter full two pounds of salt meat.

Monday Bieakfaft. Six slices with butter, and a piece of bread of three slices thick.

■ Dinner. Gray pease with salt and vinegar.

Tuesday Breakfast. As on Monday.

----- Dinner. White or gray pease boiled in water with salt and sage.

Wednesday Breakfast. As on Monday.

----- Dinner. Bailed oats or barley with sweet milk and butter upon it.

.----- — Supper. Batter milk, with oats or barley boiled in it.

Thursday Breakfast. Six slices of rye bread with butter, and apiece of bread, as on Sunday morning.

----- Dinner. Stockfilh, with sweet milk and butter upon it.

Friday. AsTuefday.

Saturday Ereakfall. As Tuesday.

■ - Dinner. As Wednesday supper.

Their drink is four pints of beer daily. But on holidays, viz. two days at Easter, Afccnfon-day, two at Whitsuntide, three at the fair time, and two at Christmas, they have for dinner, smoaked or salt meat or bacon, beans or pease, carrots or cabbage, and the three fair days they have strong beer.

father

HOLLAND.

17

father in conveying provisions to those prisoners. With the regents’ leave, on Sunday mornings, some chapters of the Bible are read to them.*

The Spin-house is for women. This, and the Work-house, are under the direction of fix regents and four governesses: who appoint two fathers and two mothers to superintend and inspect the work, the diet, f and the lodging of the prisoners; and to chastise the disobedient.

* There are many of these rooms, or houses of confinement in Holland called Ferbeterkuizen. The regulations of some of them I collected; but as they are liable to abuse, and contrary to the general notions of public justice, I cannot but wilh that they were universally suppressed.

f The diet of the prisoners is as fellows.

Sunday Dinner. Cut-cabbage with meat.

Supper. Butter milk.

Monday Dinner. White beans.

Supper. Sweet milk with barley.

Tuesday Dinner. Beans.

Supper. Butter milk.

Wednesday Dinner. Gray pease.

Supper. Butter milk.

Thursday Dinner. Barley.

Supper. Bread and beer.

Friday Dinner. White beans.

Supper. Butter milk.

Saturday Dinner. Beans.

Supper. Butter milk.

c

I

Amsterdam

Rasp-house.

Spin-house

The

iS

APPENDIX.

Amsterdam

Spin-house.

Tax.

Work-house.

The work-room, is a large room up stairs, separated by a wooden balustrade from the passage (six feet wide) into which lpe&aters are admitted. This room is divided by balustrades into three, for distinguishing those who have suffered some public or corporal pimishment, from the others who have not been whipped, and exposed on a scaffold.

The mother w’as seated at a desk (where Ihe had a full view of her family at work) with a Bible before her. By calling there on Whitsun-Monday, I found that they keep the fame holidays as at the Rasp-house.

The kitchen, the dining and lodging-rooms, were on the ground floor. In each of the three bed-rooms wTere ten w’ooden cases, with a straw mattress, two coverlids, Iheecs, and one large pillow, for two persons. All were clean, and shewed the attention of the regents.

This house is supported by a small annual tax on those who fell tobacco, beer and other liquors, and one fourth part of what is received at public exhibitions and diverftons.

The old Rasp-house or IFcrk-house is worthy of observation, as a well-regulated house of industry.* In one large room were forty-six women carding, spinning and reeling; twelve, weaving coarse linen or sail-cloth; thirteen, making and mending linen; and one em-

* Here are confined beggars and vagabonds, who, for the first crime, are committed for six weeks; for the second, three months; and for the third, for a longer period, or are banished. Drunkards also arc here confined, and such as are guilty of petty larceny.

ployed

HOLLAND.

19

ployed in keeping the room clean: the mother had a Hate, with the names of the prisoners before her.* Some men and boys were in another large room, in which were many looms. But most of the men were at work in the courts, boiling and picking oakum, for caulking the Teams of ships. I counted also forty or fifty women among them, at the fame employment.

The women’s bed-room is spacious; and I found it clean and in order, though I was there before ten o’clock in the forenoon.

This house was provided with (what seems to be much wanted in the Dutch prisons in general) an infirmary. But it was too small and close for the purpose.f

The diet of the prisoners is the fame as in the Spin-house. J Their provisions are bought in considerable quantities. The rye for bread was on the floor in an airy loom, and was sweet and good. The produce of the prisoners’ work is applied to the maintenance of the

* Three fathers and three mothers are apppointed to this house. One father has the direction of the house-keeping, and the other two oversee the manufactory. One mother manages the kitchen, and the office of the others is to keep the prisoners cleanly, and to take care of their bedding.

f The mode of keeping patients extremely warm, and preventing the free circulation of air by close woollen curtains, occasions me to say so little respecting the infirmaries or hospitals in Holland,

J Though in this house, and the Spin-house, as well as in most of the other houses of correction in Holland, the prisoners have meat only on Sundays, yet the pease, beans, barley, &c. are always made into a kind of thick soup or pottage, which is palatable, and is served up hot at noon.

Amsterdam Work-house.

iO

APPENDIX.

Amsterdam Work-house.

Utrecht Spin-house.

house, and the deficiency is made up from the Spm-house tax. The expence for each prisoner ss full five stivers a day. Their number is generally from a hundred and eighty, to two hundred.

In the Stadt-kciife at Utrecht were no debtors, and only one criminal, and his offence was not capital. The allowance to debtors, (by their creditors) the first week, is twenty-eight stivers a day; the second week, sixteen; and every day afterwards, eight stivers. The ft ate allows criminals thirteen stivers a day, which are paid to the gaoler. There has not been an execution, for the city or province, in the last fourteen years.

1 went over the Spin-house with Mr. Van Gcens, one of the magistrates, to whose kindness I am indebted for the following account of the instructions to the keeper. In this house were thirty-seven men, and thirty-four women. The criminals were employed in spinning wool. The men were three in a room. The women were separated, according to their crimes, as they are in the Spin-house at Amsterdam.

The overseer or keeper has a house for the rdidence of himself and his family, and an annual salary of a thousand guilders from the states, and a hundred and thirty from the city, clear of all deductions. According to the copy of instruEliom, he muff: not be absent a night out of the city, without leave from the chief officer and the regents. He mull, with affistants, search every part of the cells twice a week, to fee whether any thing be done, — attempted, — or introduced, that is not permitted: and he muff: carefully inspect all things that are conveyed to the prisoners, that no tools, or glass, no gin or other strong liquors may be concealed: and he must

HOLLAND.

himself, or one of his family, be present when any persons come to Utrecht fee the house; and no more than fix visitants are to be admitted at Sr in-

HOUSE.

one time. He mult fee that the provisions for the prisoners be good; and take care that the manufacturer pays the fame for their work, as he would if he employed others. He must confine those condemned for a long term, in strong rooms separate from the rest. He may correct moderately; but if the prisoners are refractory, and deserve severer punishment, he must inform the regents. By a particular permission from the magistrates, he may take in as boarders, persons of bad behaviour, at the desire of their parents, guardians or relations.

The regents only can appoint, or discharge, a servant, or turnkey.

At Deventer, the prison is near the river IJfel. It consists of four Deventer. rooms, which were all clean and sanded, but had no prisoners.

When there are any, sixteen drivers a day are paid for each; which the gaoler receives, as at most other towns. Prisoners for capital offences are removed to the Stadt-house, where the fame allowance is continued.

The rooms in the prison at Middleburg are spacious, lofty, and Middle-

clean. The three dungeons are used to force a confession; as there is no direct torture, and the criminal is not executed till the crime is confessed. The allowance to a criminal is eight slivers a day.

In the house of correction, the prisoners were employed in weaving Spin-cloth or sacking for the East India company. This is more profitable than their late employment on coarse carpeting. None were in irons.

No more than four persons were in any of the men’s rooms; in some

there

22

APPENDIX.

Middle-

Bl RC.

Breda.

Spin-house.

there were but two. Each criminal pays three guilders at his entrance, and the fame at his discharge.

The prison at Breda is an old tower. The allowance to criminals is five stivers a day. I was informed, that the torture stool in the chamber of examination has not been used for three years past.

I.v the new hoiije of correction were eleven men and two women prisoners, all employed on coarse carpeting; which is like the Scotch carpeting, but much cheaper. The specimen which I purchased, cost only eleven stivers, or a frilling their ell, which is two feet four inches. I here give the plan of the house taken by the builder, who has been particularly attentive to certain apartments which delicacy forbids enlarging upon, though they are of the greatest importance to the preservation of the health of prisoners.

The old house of correction was burnt down about five years since, and seven women perished in the flames. In the construftion of the new prison, the magistrates have taken proper precautions against such an accident.

I leave this country with regret, as it affords a large field for information on the important subject I have in view. I know not which to admire moll, the iieatnefs and deanliness appearing in the prisons, the indnftry and regular conduct of the prisoners, or the humanity and attention of the magistrates and governors.*

* I should accuse myself of ingratitude, did not I take this occasion again to express my acknowledgments to Sir Joseph Ycrke; who not only in this, as in my former visits to Holland, exerted himself with ardour to promote the success of my enquiries; but while I was confined at the Hague in consequence of an accident, favoured nie with instances of kindness and friendship that I never can forget.

Nothing

HOLLAND.

Nothing can be more unreasonable than the pretences used among us to justify inattention and negligence. I cannot help taking this occasion to add the following authorities on this subject. All unprejudiced persons mull acknowledge the absolute necessity offrejh air and cleanliness to preserve and promote health. To this purpose Dr. Mead writes, in his Discourse concerning Pejiilential Contagion.* “ Nothing tc approaches so near to the first original of contagion, as air pent up, “ loaded with damps, and corrupted with the filthiness, that proceeds “ from animal bodies. Our common prisons afford us an instance of “ this, in which very few escape, what they call tht gaol fever, which “ is always attended with a degree of malignity in proportion to the “ clojenefs and stench of the place. And it would certainly very well “ become the wisdom of the government, as well with regard to the “ health of the town, as in compassion to the p-ifoners, to take care, “ that all honfes of confinement, should be keptras airy and clean, as is tc consistent with the use, to which they are designed.” — And “ as “ nafiinefs is a great source of infection* so cleanliness is the greatest tc preservative.” — From the general practice of foreigners in building their prisons near the water, it seems, that they were convinced of the bad effects of offensive drains, and of the necessity of cleanliness; and they had no apprehensions of bad consequences arising from such a situation. Dr. Heberden has expressed his sentiments on this subject in the Medical Eranfactions. f “ In England few make any doubt of « the great danger attending wet rooms: — Is this opinion founded tc upon experience, or is it a prejudice, which has been suffered to tc grow up and get strength merely for want of being examined ? If

CC

* Pag3 4i, &c. 3d edit. 1720. f Page 521, 524.

we

*4

APPENDIX.

OsNABRUC.

“ we enquire into the arguments in favor of this notion, we shall “ hardly find any other, than the random conjectures of the sick about “the cause of their illness; or than their artfully substituting this “ origin of it instead of some other, which they are unwilling to own. “ — The air from rivers and from thefea is probably more repleniflied “ with vapors, than inland countries cleared of their woods; yet the “ ’mod celebrated of antient physicians recommended the bank of a “ running river for the situation of a house, on account of its peculiar “ healthiness; and many invalids are sent by the modern physicians “ to the sea fide, only for the benefit of the sea air.”

GERMANY.

I went into Germany in June 1778, by Ofnabrug and Hanover. The prison at Ofnabrug I should entirely omit, did I not entertain a hope, that the account of it may pofiibly engage the notice of an amiable Prince who is the present bishop, and so be the means of alleviating the sufferings of the miserable prisoners. The pri/on and the house of correction is one large building, situated in an airy part of the suburbs, near a brook. A Latin inscription over the gate implies, that it was erected “ at the public expense, in 17 56, for the purposes of public justice and utility, by confining and punishing the wicked.” — There are seventeen chambers for criminals, which have

no

GERMANY.

25

no light but by a small aperture over each door. I was happy to find here no more than one prisoner. He had been confined three years, and had survived the cruelty of the torture. In another part of the house I found many miserable and sickly objects, men, women and children, almost all without shoes and (lockings. They were spinning in, different rooms, which were dirty beyond description. These rooms open into a passage, which a gentleman in office in the city, to whom I was recommended, durst not enter. I enquired of the keeper, concerning several particulars in the diet, &c. but the misery expressed in the countenances of the prisoners, made me totally disregard the information given me by words.

At Brunswick I visited the habitation of the (laves, who lay on barrack bedsteads without beds. They had heavy irons, and their countenances were unhealthy.

The prison for capital offences Is over one of the gates. It con-fists of three rooms, but none of them had been occupied for a considerable time. It was about eleven years since the lad execution.

At Magdeburg the Prussian (laves were at work on the fortifications, serving the masons, digging sand, &c. Their daily allowance is two pounds of bread, and on the days they work, they have also in money, half a grofehe^ about three farthings. Their number was only fifty-one, for many had been taken to recruit the army.

In the other t-zvo prisons, nothing seemed worthy of observation: but in the house of correction (which was formerly a convent) was a mill to grind or beat the logwood that the men rafpedj and two or thren large chambers of Jilk-worms, on which the women attended.

D At

Osnabruc.

Brunswick.

Macde-

bure.

APPENDIX.

c.6

Berlin.

Maison

DE

Travail.

At Berlin, in the city prison, called CalanNjhtof, were eighteen men and thirteen women in fifteen rooms, in each of which was a dove. The men and women have the use of the court-yard at different hours. The allowance to each is one grofehe and twelve pfennigs, about two pence three farthings, a day. There is a chapel. There is no torture room in any of the prisons in the Vruffian dominions, for the present king has set the example in Germany of abolishing the cruel practice. In one of the rooms of this prison are alphabetically digested, the names and descriptions, with the sentences, of all who have been confined in that prison, in order that if they are found there a second time, they may suffer a much severer punishment.

In another prison, called the Haus-vogtcy, are sixteen rooms, eight for criminals, and over these the other eight for debtors and sumgglers: these rooms look into a court, to which the prisoners have access two hours in a day. All the rooms have doves. The allowance here to criminals is one grofebe .(seven farthings) a day.; but debtors have two grofehe, and in winter, one besides for firing.

The Maison de Travail, is a spacious building in the suburbs: it was erected about twenty years since: the front is two hundred and twenty feet, the fides a hundred and sixty. It has a court in the centre. The number of inhabitants were about four hundred and fifty, including fourteen children. Beggars and idle persons of both sexes are sent to this house. Those who can work are employed, fed, and cloathed; and proper care and attention paid to the aged and infirm. Each time I was there, I was pleasingly struck with the cleanly appearance of all the inhabitants. Old and young, men and women, were spinning and carding wool, in rooms

about

GERMANY.

$7

about seventy-five feet by twenty-fouF.* All have clean linen once a week; and I observed a towel hanging up in each room. The apartments are ail white-washed once a year: this gives freshness and neatness, and also light to the work-rooms. Here is a chapel with two galleries, one for each sex; and an apartment for the chaplain. The hall for'meals is spacious: the hours, seven, twelve, and seven. I was present at dinner-time: after ringing a bell, in ten minutes all were seated at about twenty tables, eighteen to each table. Four separate tables were at a little distance for criminals. A servant having called out. Silence, the school-master prayed at the delk, in the ltiiddle of the room. And after all had helped themffefves with barley soup,+ while they were eating, he read part of a chapter in the Bible; then sung an hymn, in which the children, who were all at one table, joined: after which, all went out and fetched their cans, each containing about a quart, and they were filled with small beer.’ After spending'about half an hour at dinner, they had half an hour for recreation. The whole was conducted with the greatest regularity.

In this hall are morning prayers, at which all must attend clean, and then they take their bread for breakfast.

* My minuteness with respect to measurements and other circumstances relative to the construction and government of these buildings, will require no apology with those, who consider, that in the formation of new establishments it is of use to be acquainted with many things which, though apparently trivial, are frequently of material consequence to the purposes intended to be answered.

f I tasted the barley soup, the bread, and the beer, which were wholesome and good, and they had enough. They have butter or cheese, with their bread, for supper.

D 2

Berlin

Maisoic

DE

Travail.

This

a8

Berlin

Ma ISON DE

Travail.

Spandau.

APPENDIX.

This house resembles the old rasp or work-house at Aiujlerdam. It is exceedingly neat, and such great attention is paid 10 all confined in it, as prevents every ground of complaint. The strict and good, police preserves the city of Berlin entirely free from beggars.*

At Spandau, about ten miles from Berlin, are two prisons. In that in the town, there were about a hundred and fifty persons, ipin-' ning, knitting, and carding wool. Eorty-seven of thcle were mm, committed for small offences. They have meat only on Sundays in this and some other houses of correction. Here were some rooms with silk-worms, on which the female prisoners attended. Neither this, nor any foreign houses of correction which I have seen, are without a chapel.

The other prison, in the fortress or castle, is surrounded with water. Thirty-six ltate prisoners were confined in it, and a hundred and five criminals. Some few of die latter were rafpino; logwood; the talk for each thirty-six pounds a day: but most of them were /pinning. The criminals are badly lodged, and there seems to be little attention paid to them. Here are none but men, for no women are ever permitted to continue a night in the castle. They had;a light chain to each foot, and such as were taken after an escape had a collar of iron.

* That it is indeed strict and extenGvc I had some evidence by weighing the bread from various parts of the city; all which cxattly agreed with the assize or llandard. In June 1778, the fine white bread was something above three halfpence a pound; and there was just double the weight of rye bread for the fame money.

If

GERMANY.

29

If I may judge, by what I saw of the ft ate prisoners here, and at Magdeburg, and of the few prisoners in the spacious areas, all their apartments are not so dreadful as some imagine; nor are the persons confined in them unhealthy and miserable objects.*

The he’.ft of correction for Lusatia at Lukau is a spacious prison. The men were treading in a large wheel to grind corn, five and five by turns. Some of them had iron collars, as at Bern, but no irons on their feet. The prison for the women was a distinct building; their employment was spinning.

At Dresden, the apartments for the slaves being under the fortifications, mufl be unhealthy. I saw four sick, and yet they had their irons on. Among those that were at work, one had an iron collar, by way of punishment, for making an escape, besides the broad iron about his leg. Another was fitting, and endeavouring somewhat to alter the place of his iron. He told me, that the weight was marked on it twenty-one pounds, and that he could not have it changed to the other leg without paying a smith.

Here are two other prisons. The house of correction has ten or twelve rooms, each about ten feet square, with one window, and an aperture over the door, and barrack bedsteads. There were ten prisoners, five of each sex. Three of the men were rasping logwood in a room down twenty steps and the other two were employed as la-

* They are not all confined to a small quantity of bread and water, in cells of four feet square and six feet high, and loaded with seventy-eight pounds of iron, as the ingenious and intrepid Trench was six years at Magdeburg.

Spandau.

Lukau.

Dresden.

bourers

APPENDIX,

.1°

Dresden, bourers In building a chapel. This prison and the orphan-house, is, very improperly, one building.

The other prison for the bailliage, contains nineteen chambers, in which were twenty-six prisoners j moil of whom had a chain (some on one foot only, some on both) fastened to a staple in the wall. The prison was dirty j and the gaoler’s pan of charcoal and frankincense (which his negligence rendered necessary) could not prevent its being very offensive. Here was one debtor, who had from his creditor fix grojehe (ten pence halfpenny) a day. The criminals allowance is one gro/che (about seven farthings) each.*

Prague. There was nothing very remarkable in the two prisons at Prague.

The men at the Maijon de Force, work out, with a guard, sawing wood, &c. for twelve creutzers f a day, which is less than the common wages of labourers. The prisoners themselves receive only four for a day’s work, the rest is paid to the house. Many were thus employed, with chains to one or both legs, according to the different terms of their confinement.

* On paying my acknowledgments to the grand bailiff for permitting me to fee the gaol, I took the liberty to observe, that 1 had seen prisons cleaner. I mentioned also the severity of chaining women, which is very uncommon in other countries. To this he answered, that “ the gaoler chained them for security, being often obliged to be absent in fetching prisoners from the country.” In return, I gave my opinion that the attention to a prison ought to be the foie work of a gaoler, without which, little regard will be paid to cleanliness or humanity.

+• A creutzer is near a halfpenny.

I VISITED

S3

APPENDIX.

Vl H jf N A

House of Correction.

after it had been weighed, they received their pay. They have all that they earn for themselves. A few received twenty-six creutzers each, others less. The matter was employed in putting the name on the work of each prisoner, and setting down the money that was paid, and the cotton delivered. The prisoners saw the cotton weighed, and took as much as they could spin in that week.* At dinnertime, several large pans of soup and beer were brought in, and the prisoners bought what they thought proper.

The prison was too much crow'ded,-}- the house not being built for the purpose to which it is applied. In several rooms the wen were carding and spinning. In one room, some of them, who were tay-lors, were making cloaths for the soldiers: in another, some were weaving coarse linen at eight looms: and in another room, they were making thick blankets for the convents. 1 wo more rooms were warehouses for cloth, stockings, coverlids, &c. manufactured in the house for sale. They were then white-washing the house.

* In the holiday, when the prisoners are not permitted to work, each has an allowance of four or five creutzers.

f One or two of the women were crying, and charging others with rising in the night and Healing some of their cotton. The rnifirefs believed the complaint, but said she was not able to prevent such frauds, because there was not the convenience of separate apartments.

t It is the general rule in Dutch and German houses of correction, to zvhite-zrnjh them once or twice a year. I seldom neglected to enquire about this practice, as we have a dause relative to it in a late act for preferring the health of prisoners in gaol.

In

GERMANY.

In the chapel is a proper reparation of men and women. Here, and at Prague, and in some other parts of Germany, they have iron grate doors, which do not prevent the circulation of air, so salutary and necessary in houses of confinement. Too little attention is paid to the lodgings of the prisoners, for they have no coverlids.

Though I could not mention with commendation the prisons of this city, yet I must acknowledge, I was greatly pleased with the public buildings for the indigent, the aged, and infirm; which do honour to the citizens in general, and especially to the Empress Sfiyeen.

The great alms-honfie in the suburbs consists of three courts. The front of this spacious building is six hundred and thirty-seven feet; the fide, eleven hundred and fifty-three. The inhabitants are near three thousand, including the military invalids. It was agreeable to observe their order, neatness, and cleanliness. Here poverty and old age appeared with a finding afpefl. Many of them were seventy or eighty years of age. They wcie cheerfully spinning, because what- . ever they could gain was to be their own.

Les Freres de Charite have not only wards for the sick in their convent, but these friars have also another airy and commodious house with gardens, to which they remove their patients when they begin to recover. In this were two wards up stairs, and each ward has fourteen beds.

The noble Hofipital for bringing up children, was the plan of one person, whom I left engaged in the improvement of his liberal design. In sixteen rooms for boys, were five hundred and thirty-nine beds, and two hundred and forty-one in eight rooms for girls. The extent of the front is six hundred and sixty-two feet.

E In

33

Vienna.

Alms-

house,

34 APPENDIX.

Vienna. In the great alms-house, and in several prisons and other public buildings, the rooms are all arched, to prevent danger and confusion in case of fire. Before I leave this city, I would just mention that every month, an account of the price, weight and measure of bread and flour, is put up on the gates.*

Gratz. At Gratz (the capital of Stiria) I observed in the hottfe of correc-tion, that the prisoners had an appearance far more healthy than those I had seen in a similar house at Vienna. They have beds and coverlids, and the guards fee that the men take off their cloaths at night.

Laubach. I omit particulars concerning the prison at Laubach in Carniola, as I cannot say a word in favour of it.

T RIESTE. At 'Trieste, the prison consists of eight or ten very close offensive rooms, each having only one small window. The pale countenances

* The bills I observed were dated July 1, 1778. Seven sorts of bread were mentioned in them. The fined was (by my weights) exactly one pound for three halfpence of our money. The second fort was one pound and fix ounces for a penny. Inferior forts made of rye were cheaper. I commonly examined the price, and the dridtnefs of this part of the police, in mod large cities that I visited, to compare them with our own at London. The bakers at Vienna are punished for frauds by the severity and disgrace of the ducking-dool. This machine of terror, fixed on the fide of the Danube, is a kind of long pole or board extending over the water, at cne end of which the delinquent, being fadened in his bafiect, is immersed. The bakers would gladly purchase a removal of this machine, but the punishment is continued and inflicted by order of the magijiratet. of

GERMANY.

35

of the nineteen prisoners bespoke their own misery, and the negligence of the magistrates and keepers.

But in the Castle were eighty-five slaves (Condannati) who seemed healthy and well. They were confined for three, five, seven, or fourteen years and upwards; and were employed on the roads, in the harbour, &c. Some of them were at work in a large lighter,* clearing the harbour, just under my chamber window. To prevent their escaping, they were guarded by fix soldiers. They did not work harder, than other labourers would in the fame employment. Their hours for work were from five in the morning till between five and six in the afternoon; but they had two (from eleven to one) allowed them for rest, and half an hour more sometime before they left work. They appeared healthy, clean, andstrong; and laboured cheerfully, because when they were employed, each of them received, as extraordinary pay, three farthings a day. Their common allowance was two pounds and a half of bread and four farthings a day. I heard them called over, and saw them receive their pay, before they entered their chambers in the castle. Their bread was sweet and good, such as I should have been happy to have found in many parts of my tour. They were treated with humanity, though

* Two wheels were fixed in the lighter, one of them to draw back the scoop or bucket, and the other {by the weight of ten men treading in it) to raise the mud, which was then emptied into another lighter managed by the overseer of the work. Three or four times a day, a soldier (with a bayonet fixed on his musket) accompanied a convict, who went to fetch a tub of fresh water, and on his return he supplied each with a tumbler of it while they were at work in the wheel. By the mail of the other lighter, a fail was spread to lhade them, the weather being warm, FarenheWs thermometer 85°.

E 2

T R1ESTE.

under

APPENDIX.

06

T RIESTE.

under strict discipline; were well supplied with food and cloaths j had two shirts, two pair of stockings, &c. and they lay in good beds * with coverlids, in large airy rooms having opposite windows, and not, like many convicts, in close dirty dungeons under the fortifications. But they were distinguished from other labourers by a light chain on their legs, and a chain supported by a girdle of leather at their waists.

ITALY.

I entered Italy with raised expectations of considerable information, from a careful attention to the prisons and hospitals, in a country abounding with charitable institutions and public edifices.

* May not one great cause of the unhealthiness of our prisoners be, the want of proper bedding, which obliges them to lie in their cloaths? How different did these prisoners appear at the castle from many that I have seen in Prussia and at Vienna ! I was ltruck with the fame good appearance of the ’women prisoners at several of the spin-houses in Holland. This reminds me of what I heard an old general say, “ That “ he always found his men subject to illness and diseases when they lay in camps, “ not from dampness, but from lying in their eloaths and the ’•want of proper bedding; for “ at the same time all his officers had been quite healthy and well.” Whatever be the cause of this difference, whether a more free perspiration in bed, taking off bandages, or ’ventilation of the cloaths, I am fully convinced of the fall.

At

ITALY.

37

T

A

At Venice, the great prison is near the Doge’s palace,* and it is one of the itrongeft I ever saw. There were between three and four hundred prisoners, many of them confined in loathsome and dark cells for life j executions here being very rare. There was no fever, or prevailing disorder in this close prison. None of the prisoners had irons. On weighing the bread allowance, I found it fourteen ounces. I asked some who had been confined many years in dark cells, whether they should prefer the galleys ? They all answered in the affirmative: so great a bldfing is light and air ! The chapel is only for the condemned, who continue there a night and a day before execution.

Regulations were hung up in the prison. — Here is a charitable society established for the relief of prisoners both civil and criminal, and rules are published for the direction of the officers who have the management of it, of whom four are appointed rcifitors of the prison. There are likewise rules for the good government of the two infirmaries. These I procured from the ducal printer, with the regulations for the galleys and prisons, for many years pafl.

One of the galleys was moored two boat’s length from the fihore, in which were only twenty-seven slaves, who were kept here in order to be sent on board the other galleys. This was clean. Here, and in the other galleys, which were dirty and crowded, the slaves were in chains of about twenty-seven pounds weight.f

* The rooms for the Jlaie.frtfcners are over part of the palace on the leads, which renders confinement in the heat of summer almost intolerable.

f I saw a Have dead on the Ihore, who I suppose dellroyed himself in despair, for he could not hope to escape by swimming, because of his heavy irons.

Venice.

I VISITED

APPENDIX.

3S

Padua.

Bolocna.

Hospital.

I visited the prisons of Padua and Ferrara: In the former of these cities, none of the confined debtors would fit on the elevated ficmftool* in the great hall; and I was informed that not one had submitted to the ignominy these ten years.

At Bologna are three prisons; one of which is for debtors, who are alimented after four months and three days confinement, at one saule (about six pence) a day each.

The hospital, S. Maria de Vita, afforded me great pleasure. All was clean; and the wards were lofty, and not in the lead offensive. The wards of the men and women were of the Tame size, each containing thirty-eight beds, nineteen on each fide. The bedsteads were of iron, and the coverlids were white and clean. Each ward had fourteen windows, seven on a fide, and all had curtains. They had folding wooden casements j and on the outside, wire lattices.f

* This is sometimes called the ft one of difgract; for if they who are insolvent would avoid imprisonment, at a time fixed they must fit upon it in a disgraceful manner three times.

t The wards of this hospital were thirty-two feet and a half wide, and the beds were three feet two inches wide, and three feet eight inches asunder. In the middle of each space of the wall between the beds was a cupboard, with a shelf, concealed by a small curtain; and over each curtain was a flip of black marble with the number of the bed. On the fides of all the wards, for the convenience of opening and shuting the windows, was a gallery eighteen feet above the floor, and two feet broad, with a light rail two feet nine inches high. The doors to the wards were iron grates, five feet five inches wide.

In-

ITALY.

39

In Florence are two prisons.* In the great prison, Palazzo Florence. degV Otto, were only twenty prisoners. Six of them were in the secrete chambers, which are twenty-one strong rooms. None of the prisoners were in irons. They had mattresses to lie on. Their bread was good. In the torture chamber, there was a machine for decollation, which prevents that repetition of the stroke which too often happens when the axe is used.

In the other prison, Delle Stinche, there are five doors to pass before you come to the court. The opening of the first is three feet wide, and four feet nine inches high, with an inscription over it,

Oportet mfereri, (We ought to be compassionate.) In this prison are many spacious rooms, in which are small benches, or cribs to lie on.

The mca’s rooms are below, and look into the court, which is about forty-three feet square. The 'women, entirely separated, are up stairs, and have an hospital joining to their room. A new infirmary for the men (forty-four feet by twenty-nine) is contiguous to the chapel.

In this prison were forty-two men and fourteen women. Debtors are not separated from criminals. In one room were eight, who paid for their beds. The bread was good: the day’s allowance to each fifteen ounces. None were in irons. — The chaplain has apartments, and resides in the gaol.f

.* Dr. Tar g ion i, who had an order from his royal highr.efs to inspect the hospitals, and report what beneficial improvements might be made in them, accompanied me in visiting these prisons.

-f- This prison has something similar to the plan I proposed. A wall surrounds three fides of it; but being very high, and only eleven feet and a half distant, it renders the prison too dose.

The

40

APPENDIX.

Florence

Hospitals.

The great hospital of S. Maria Nova was crowded and too dose; though the men’s fever ward was four hundred and fifty-four feet long, and thirty feet and a half wide. They have separate wards for wounds and fractures. The women are attended by the Nuns, who have a passage under ground from the opposite convent. Here are twenty students, who lodge and board in the house for seven years, attend the sick, serve the victuals,* See. and are distinguished by. a long cloak.

But the hospital which I moll frequently visited, was S. Giovan di Dio.t The afeent into the sick ward is by a flight of thirty stone Heps. This ward was lofty and clean; and was a hundred and twenty-three feet long, and thirty-three and a half wide. There were in it thirty-three beds, three feet four inches wide, placed on varnished boards, on iron bedsteads. J

Neither the fides nor floors of this, and the other hospitals of Italy, were mood, that being more retentive of feents or infection than tarras or brick. At one end there are five rooms with Angle

w

beds for sick priests. Three of them were occupied.

The hospital S. Paolo della Convalefcenza, for the reception of recovering patients, has clean and airy apartments, and a spacious

* I saw a friar or capuchin come in form and llefs the meat or soup for dinner. The numerous patients seemed entirely satisfied with this, without any devotion of their ovju.

f The great attention of this order of friars to the sick, in every country where they have hospitals, does them honour.

J This is very conducive to cleanliness, and secures patients from vermin.

refeeftory.

ITALY.

refectory, or dining hall. They continue here four days, and by the change of air and diet their health is confirmed before they go to their several occupations.

Here I would just mention an alms-house, S. Bonifazio, for infirm persons of advanced age. It has eighty beds for each sex, and they are fitting up twenty more. The wards are (thirty feet wide) all clean, and shew the care of the Nuns who attend on this charity.*

In the prison at Leghorn were three debtors, and eight of those called prisoners at.large, and in the secrete three criminals. I mention this prison because of the infirmary, which, as appears by an inscription over the door, was built at the expense of the present governor, Philip Borbonio, in 1761.

The slaves in the fortre/sj appeared healthy and well; better, as the old keeper remarked, since they have lain on floore. J Each prisoner had a ring round one leg but when they go out to work, a chain is rivetted to two prisoners. Here were seven pontons to clear the harbour but the weather, when I was there, being stormy, they could not be worked. There were forty-seven slaves employed at

* I cannot leave Florence without expressing my great obligations to the Grand Duke for his permission to inspect the prisons, and making my acknowledgments to Sir Horace Mann our ambassador, for his very kind attention and assistance.

+ In this fortress, there were a hundred and thirty-two slaves: at Pi/a, were eighty-five: and at the Grand Duke’s salt-works at Port Ferrara, seventy.

J Galleys or hulks ought to be the punishment only for the most atrocious crimes.

F the

4i

Florence.

Leghorn.

Fortress.

42

appendix.

Leghorn

Fortress.

the new Lazaretto, which is a noble spacious building, with different apartments for officers and their men to perform quarantine, and large warehouses for the cargoes of their ffiips.

The old keeper generouffy ordered his son to copy for me all the rules, from which I shall here give some extracts.

Three keepers have their salary from the Grand Duke. They receive a copy of the process against every convict, carry it to the government, and register it in the proper book; and when required, they muff give an exact account of all proceedings against the prisoners. They make a report of the refractory to government, that they may be punished in proportion to their offences, with severer confinement, irons, and baftinadoes. The principal keeper has power to choose two turnkeys out of the best-behaved prisoners, who are to exhort and instrudt the others: but the keeper is to have a strict watch over them. He muff: order that all prisoners, when they are brought in, have their heads shaved, — be dressed in the uniform of the house, — and have irons on their feet.

The prisoners are condemned to labour, for thirty, twenty, ten, or seven years, or for a shorter term, according to the nature of their crimes; and are chiefly employed on the publick works. They are sent out every morning, under a guard of soldiers, and are chained two and two together, with a chain of about eighteen pounds weight. An hour’s relaxation is allowed them at breakfast, and two hours in the afternoon: and at an hour before sun-set, they are recondudled to the prison, and muff be well searched by the keepers, to prevent their having any thing.concealed: and two hours after sun-set, they are ordered to go quietly to rest. When they are employed on the

works

ITALY.

43

works by his royal highness, they are paid two crazzies (about three halfpence) a day; but if employed by other persons, they are paid four or fix crazzies, according to the nature of the work. At day-break, the turnkeys ring the bell to awake them: and a report is made by them to the keepers, if any have been guilty of irregularities- during the night. Their daily allowance is a loaf of thirty ounces (which is made two thirds of flour, and one third of bran,*) and soup made from four ounces of pease boiled in water, with salt and oil. On each of the two Easter holidays they are allowed a pound of meat, and three ounces of rice. Every two years they have a coat of gray cloth, a waistcoat of red cloth, and a red cap ■, every year a pair of shoes; and every six months a shirt, and a pair of drawers or breeches. Their drawers are shifted once a month, their shirts every week. For lodging, they have a mattress filled with straw, and a coverlid: the straw is changed, and kept in good order. — If one attempts to desert, and be taken before sun-set, he must wear a ring, and a chain of eighteen puunds weight j and he must pay half his future earnings, till it amounts to a zee bin,\ to those that apprehended him. If they who are condemned for five years desert, when retaken, their term again commences: and for repeated desertions, they are more fe-verely punished, and sometimes tortured.

The chaplain must inftniEl the prisoners.

In the hospital there must be all proper provisions for the sick and infirm, viz. veal, mutton, rice, fine bread, broth, good wine, &c.

* Their bread was very good. I preferred it to that which I met with at my lodgings.

Lechorn

Fortress.

+ A zechin is about 9s. 3d.

F a

A phy-

44

APPENDIX.

Lechorn A physician attends, and the diet and medicines mult be according Fortress, to his prescription. On entering, the patients have clean linen, iTlirts, night-caps, and cloaths. And the keepers and turnkey mult examine their victuals and soup, to lee that they be good, and that the quantity be according to the physician’s orders.

Rome. At the great prison at Rome, called the New Prtf onf at the back of which runs the Tiber, on a Hone tablet over the door, is this inscription:

JUSTITI^E ET CLEM ENTI/E SECURIORT AC MELIORI REORUM CUSTODY NOVUM CARCEREM JNN0CENT1US X. PONT. MAX.

TOSUIT ANNO DOMINI wdclv.

To JuJiice and Clemency,

Fcr the more secure and better cnjlody of criminals,

Pope Innocent X. erelied this New Prison,

In the year of our Lord 1655.

On the ground floor, on one fide are the Haves for the galleys at Civita-vecchia: on the other fide is a fort of cook’s shop, and a tap-room, over which are the women’s apartments, five of whom were in the

* The elegance and simplicity of the front of this prison occasioned me to give a plate of it.

secrete

45

ITALY.

secrete chambers, and twenty more at large. — There are eighteen of these strong rooms for the men, which are dole and offensive, each of them having but one window for admitting light and air. These rooms are never opened without an order from the governor of the city. There were sixty-eight prisoners. They are not permitted to go out of their rooms at any time, but for examination. — Some having been confined there many years, appeared with pale sickly countenances■, but none were in irons.

Here is a chamber for distratfted prisoners, in which were feverf miserable objects.

There are several chambers with beds for those who are called prisoners at large, for which each pays one panic and a half (about eight pence) a night. There is a chamber for priests, one for boys, one for fezes, and one for prisoners who have cutaneous disorders.

Oh the upper floor are two Infirmaries: one, appropriated to the prisoners in the secrete, in which were four patients. In the other, which is for the rest of the prisoners, were ten patients the first time I was there, and the last time only f'even * The whole prison is arched with brick, for security in case of fire. The passages are seven feet two inches wide, and light. The afeent to each story, is by two flights of seventeen stone steps. These staircases are seven feet three inches wide; the rises five inches: this I mention, as generally, in our prisons (even those that are lately built) the stairs are

* This infirmary is a spacioas airy ward, seventy-three feet by twenty-three, with seventeen beds three feet three inches asunder; was clean, and had every thing proper for the sick.

Rome

New

Prison

narrow,

46

APPENDIX.

f

Rome. narrow, the rises high, and the passages dark and inconvenient. I wish I could say I had seen no torture chamber.*

In the prison at the Capitol are two rooms for poor dehors, and for criminals whose offences are not so great as to cause them to be confined in the secrete. The prisoners in one of these rooms, had the privilege of asking alms of the passengers. There were five dehors in rooms which they paid for, and two criminals in the secrete. This prison is not offensive. There is a constant current of water through one of the large rooms.

The state prisoners are confined in the cafile of San Angelo. The rooms appropriated to that purpose were all empty, except one, in which was a bishop, who had been confined upwards of twenty years, and was distrafted. Here were also eighteen condannati who work in the fortress, and had each a light chain. They seemed healthy and well.

On the death of the Pope, the prisoners are brought hither from the great prison, for upon such occasions the prisons are thoroughly cleaned.

I can give but little information respecting the prison of the inquisition. It is situated near the great church of St. Peter s. On one

• There is a tabic of regulations by the authority of the magistrates hung up in this prison, ordering the exatt times, of opening the prison and the court, of saying mass daily, and of distributing the alms. The times vary twice in a month, according to the different length of the days. In the fame table, the physician is ordered to visit the sick in the infirmary every morning, and in case of extraordinary illness, in the evening.

fide

ITALY.

47

fule of the court round which it is built, is the inquisitor general’s palace. Over the gate is an inscription importing cc that it was erected by Pope Pius V. in the year 1569.” The windows of the prison have wooden blinds, and at a small distance is a high wall.*

In this City, and many others in Italy, is a Confratevnita della mise-ricordia, called S. Giovanni di Fiorentini. f It consists of about seventy, chiefly nobles, of the belt families. , After a prisoner is condemned, one or two of them come to him the midnight before his execution, inform him of the sentence, and continue with him till his death. They, with the confessor, exhort and comfort him, and give him his choice of the most delicious food. All tht fraternity attend the execution, dressed in white. When the prisoner is dead, they leave him hanging till the evening; then one of the fraternity, generally a prince, cuts him down, and orders him to be conveyed to the burying-place which they have appropriated to malefactors. I was there the twenty-ninth of August, the only day in the year when this burying-place is opened to the public. — Adjoining an elegant church is a chapel, which makes one fide of a court, and on each of the other three fides, is a portico supported by Doric pillars.

* The chambers of this Jilent and melancholy abode were quite inaccessible to me; and yet I spent near two hours about the court and the priests apartments, till my continuance there began to raise suspicion.

f Many of Florentine extraction were the founders. This institution is ancient, for the church of S. Gio. Battijla Decollate belonged to them in 1450.

Rome/

In

4s

Rome.

S. Michele.

APPENDIX.

In the middle of the pavement* of the front portico the zvcmeu, and in one of the fide porticos the men are buried. The latter are interred in the fame dress in which they were hanged; for in Italy, coffins are not in general use.

The hospital of S. Michele is a large and noble edifice. The back front is near three hundred yards long. It consists of several courts with buildings round them. In the apartments on three fides of one of the most spacious of these courts, are rooms for various manufactures and arts, in which boys who are orphans or destitute are educated and instructed. When I was there, the number was about two hundred, all learning different trades according to their different abilities and genius. Some were educated for printers, some for bookbinders, designers, ffniths, carpenters, taylors, shoemakers, and barbers j and some for weavers and dyers, a cloth manufacture being carried on here in all its branches. When the boys arrive at the age of twenty years, they are compleatly clothed, and a certain sum is given to set them up in the business they have learned. In the middle of the court is a noble fountain, and there are several inscriptions to the honour of the founders of this excellent institution.

Joining to another court are apartments for the aged and infirm, in which were two hundred and sixty men, and two hundred and twenty-six women. Here they find a comfortable'retreat, having

* Here arc marble fijuarcs, in which are circular apertures for the interment of those that are executed. Round these Hones is inscribed,

“ Domine, cum •veneris judicare,

“ Kelt nos condemr.are."

O Lord, n.vben thou Shalt come to judge, do not condemn us,

clean

ITALY.

49

dean rooms and a refeftory. I conversed with some of them, and they appeared happy and thankful.

Another part of this Hospital is a prison for boys or young men. Over the door is this Inscription:

CLEMENS XI. PONT. MAX.

• PERDITIS ADOLESCENTIBUS CORRIGENDIS INSTITUENDISQUE UT QUI INERTES OBERANT INSTRUCTI REIPUBLICjE SERVIANT AN. SAL. J^IDCCIV. PONT. IV.

Pope Clement XI.

For the correction and instruction Of profligate youth:

Flat they, who when idle, were injurious,

When infirvMcd, might be tifeful,

■ To the State.

1704.

In the room is inscribed the following admirable sentence, in which the grand purpose of all civil policy relative to criminals is expressed.

PARUM EST COERCERE IMPROBOS POENA NISI PROBOS EFFICIAS DISCIPLINA.

It is of little advantage To rest rain the Bad By Punishment,

Unless you render them Good By Discipline.

G Here

Rome . Michele.

APPENDIX.

So

Rom e S. Michele.

Here were fifty boys spinning, and in the middle of the room * an inscription hung up,

SILENTIUM.

In this hospital is a room also for women. On the outside is an inscription, expressing, that it was erected by Clement XII. in 1735, for refraining the licentionjncjs and punifjing the crimes of women.

There are in Rome many hospitals for the sick, but they were in general crowded, yet none of them had more than one patient in a bed. In the great hospital of San Spirito in Saffia, f there were, the first time I visited it, a thousand and fifteen patients j the second time, eleven hundred and three.

The hospital of S. Gio Later an 0 was also crowded and offensive; and that of S. Giacomo degl’ Incurabili wa» worse: § but that called

* This room being different from arty I had before fcen, I had a plan taken, which may give a clearer idea of it than a verbal description would do.

f Formerly many nations founded hospitals in this city. This was founded by one of our Saxon kings. Some others continue to the present time entirely national, as the Milanese, Florentine, and Spanish hospitals.

J Here is a staircase remarkable for its afeent being very easy, for valetudinarians, and for carrying up the sick in a kind of chairs or enclosed beds. It is seven feet wide, and has a rail on each fide. Every ilep is an inclined plane of three inches afeent, one foot eight inches wide, and the rife from one step to another is only three inches. These steps are of bricks, set edgeways, and fronted with Hone.

§ Indeed I saw the hospitals under great difid vantages, it being a very sickly time, occasioned by the long continuance of drought, and the extraordinary heats of the summer 177S.

Bafrctclliy

1 < Un/ls f'/vm A

2 JCee/iots

3 Waotfen Bat

SeouUb

4 A ThittrTat/i

5 The Ila/h

'he 2/ TVo> —

6 Benches ttft/h.

j A /ahre 3 TheA/tn?•

q The Theft 1/

The JcceunTo// ft Room J1 Lolanii] Bootns Se/i‘ehi

B/ace cj' Chas-ftse/nenT S/a/r Canes To Prhors ft TCee/i e'/j Booms A Sma/T Boo/n

Pioo/ns for /he/ fte.

30

40

ITALY.

Bvnfratelli, that for the Florentines, that of S. Maria della Conjoin- Rome zione,* were clean, and perfectly free from any offensive scents. In Hospitals. this last-mentioned hospital, no patients are received except such as have wounds or fradtures. The Gallicano, another hospital in this City, is folelv for cutaneous disorders.

Before we take our leave of Rome, it may be proper just to mention the Hospital for pilgrims and convalejcents. Recovering patients, when dismissed from the other hospitals, may enter into this, and reside here three days, lodge in airy wards, dine in the refeftory, and be well attended.

The Pope's galleys are at Civita-vecchia. Theflaves condemned to ' Civita-

VECCHI

them are confined for different terms, according to the nature of their crimes: but the shortest time is three years for vagabonds, who are generally employed on board the pontons in clearing the harbour.

For theft, the term is never under seven years. Persons convicted of forgery are always confined for life; and if found guilty of forging bank-notes, or any instruments by which large sums have been loft, they are punished with an iron glove. Prisoners for life are chained two and two together: those for limited terms have all a single chain, and, at their first arrival, of the fame weight; but when they have no more than one or two years to serve, they have only a ring

* At night, two chains are put across the street over-against this hospital, by an order of Pope Alexander VII. in 1661, for the purpose elegantly expressed in the infeription,

Ke pratereunte Jlrcpitu ipuies Arnica Jilentii Omnino ab agrotantibus exularct.

G 2

round

5-

APPENDIX.

ClVITA-

VECCHIA.

round their leg, which is lessened as the end of their term approaches. For el'capes, they are obliged to finish theirfirft condemnation, and then receive a frefii one for the same time as the former; but if the first was for life, the fame is renewed, and they receive from a hundred to two hundred lashes a day, for three days after their arrival. None are Jent to the galleys under the age of twenty: criminals of a younger age are kept at the hospital of S. Michele in Rome till they are of age; and are there employed in spinning, and fed on bread and water.

The allowance to each Have is three pounds of bread a day; and fifty-five pounds of beans or calavances to each galley, with which they generally make a kind of soup once in two or three days, and they are allowed two pound and a half of oil to boil with their beans. At Easter, Christmas, and Carnival, they are allowed one pound of beef and half a pint of wine a man, and twenty-five pounds of rice to a galley.

For their cloathing, they have once in two years, a striped woollen capotto and waificoat, two shirts, two pair of canvass breeches, and a woollen cap; and every year, two feet and a half of woollen cloth to wrap round their legs instead of stockings.*

The saves here are conllantly employed, and have what they earn for themselves, being paid according to their abilities and the nature

• The yearly expense of each slave for maintenance, cloathing, and chains, is computed at fifteen Reman crowns and eighty-seven baiocs, about £3: 13:0.

At the time of my being at Ciajita-'vecchia, three of the galleys were out on a cruize, and two only remained. Through the whole night there was great silence, though about four hundred were chained in each of the galleys.

of

ITALY.

53

of their work. For Jawing in the arsenal, they are paid two pence a day each 5 for working as mAfons, two pence halfpenny; for carrying stones and mortar, only a penny. Such as work at the can-vafs and callico manufactories are paid from two pence to eight pence, according to the quality of the work, &c. At the public works they are allowed an hour for dinner, and in summer-time an hour for breakfast.*

Here is a spacious hospital on Jloore for the Haves. None were in irons. All was clean. In the centre of the great room in this hospital was an altar for public worfifip. A particular room was appropriated for such as had cutaneous disorders, and another for con-Jnmptive patients.f

The principal prison in the great and populous city of Naples $ is La Vicaria, under the courts of justice. It contained when I was there, according to the gaoler’s account, nine hundred and eighty prisoners. In about eight large rooms communicating with one another, there were five hundred and forty sickly objects, who had access to a

* For the preceding account I am indebted to our countryman Mr. Dcnbam, who has the superintendence of the Pope’s galleys.

f In this country, the physicians are persuaded that the consumption is a contagious disorder. Patients aftiitted with it in hospitals have a separate ward. The fame precautions are used to prevent infedlion as in the plague. When this disorder has been in private houses, the furniture is removed, and the rooms are feraped and fumigated, before they are again inhabited.

X An account is taken every year of the inhabitants of this city; and at Ealler 1777, their number was 350,061; of whom 164,545 were males, and 160,071 females, besides 3303 priefhs, 4231 monks, and 6311 nuns.

C1 v 1 t a -.

VECCH1A.

Naples,

court

APPENDIX.

54

Nati.es. court furounded by buildings so high as to prevent the circulation of air. In this court was a recess, under arcades like those under the chapel at Newgate. Some of the prisoners were employed in knitting, and others in making lhoes, but moll of them were entirely without employment. In six chambers, which opened into a spacious hall, were many beds for such as could pay for them. Adjoining was a chapel, and an airy infirmary for the whole prison.* In seven close offensive rooms were thirty-one prisoners, almost without cloaths on account of the great heat: and in six dirty rooms communicating with one another were fifty women. Of all the prisoners, one man only was in irons, in a dungeon, near a small chapel which is allotted to the condemned before execution.

The bread was good: the daily allowance to each was twenty-two ounces.

There were three other prisons: one contained eighty prisoners, another near sixty, the other but eleven.

Galleys. The galleys were moored about ten feet from the shore. In the first were two hundred and sixty fiaves j in the second, two hundred and ninety-eight; in the third, two hundred and seventy j and in the fourth, four hundred ■, moll of them flout and healthy. All were chained two and two together. Their bread was hard, but sweet.

* There were forty persons in this infirrprv, in single beds, with sheets, coverlids, &c.

In visiting the prisons of Italy, I observed, that in general great attention was paid to the sick; but I could not avoid remarking, that too little care was taken to prevent sickness.

From the heat of the climate, one might imagine the gaol fever would be very likely to prevail; but I did not find it in any of the prisons.

Abouc

ITALY.

55

About twenty-six ounces a day was allowed them; and when employed in the arsenal and other public works, they have an extraordinary allowance of near a penny a day. After escapes, if they are retaken, their whole term is doubled. Each galley has a chaplain, and public worship on Sundays and Holidays.

In the Serraglio, or great alms-house,* there were about five hundred and fifty prisoners condannati in eight or nine rooms. Many of them work as labourers on this great building, with chains varying according to the terms of their confinement; and have the extra allowance just mentioned, with five ounces of flour for soup. In these rooms were shoemakers at work, as in some of the galleys; but mod of the prisoners had no employment.-j-

This great building is to be a receptacle for the aged and infirm; and for beggars and idle persons. There is a great number of the former in some rooms that are finished, and which have windows into a court, where they were digging a foundation for a very large church, by which the numerous inhabitants will be deprived of the salutary effetfts of the circulation of air.

The galley (laves have an hospital on the shore% fronting the bay, entirely appropriated to them and their guards. It has four or five

* The front of this building already extends near thirteen hundred feet, and probably it will be enlarged.

f As no regular plan had been settled for the employment of these (laves, the king lately made a present of three hundred of such of them as had been condemned for life to the Mallefe.

I On my telling the surgeon, that in some countries a part of each galley is made an hospital; he replied, “ that mull soon matte the whole an hospital.”

Naples.

spacious

s6 APPENDIX.

Naples. spacions and airy wards, cleaner than most of the other hospitals in this city. One of these rooms is only for the guard of the marine. The patients are distinguished into three clafTes j fick — very ill — and recovering. Great attention is paid to them: and they are allowed good bread in sufficient quantity.

Hospitals. The great and crowded hospitals of 6’. Apojioli and UAnmmziaziane, have wards appropriated to the cure ot wounded persons.*

The hospital of the Benfratelli, or S. Gio. di Dio, is clean and elegant. It consists chiefly of one lofty ward,f at one end of which is an altar and a room for poor priests, and at the other end a table on which were placed the patients victuals. Near this table was inscribed a reference to the apposite words of Scripture, Matthew xxv. 35, 36. For I was an bungred, and ye gave me meat: &c.

* The frequency of assaults and assassinations in Italy is generally known. Many of the common people seem to be insensible of the atrociousness of the crime of murder. I have heard criminals in prison express, with seeming satisfaction of mind, “that though they stabbed, they did not rob.” If we consider that wards and even hospitals appropriated to the wounded are filled with patients, that the prisons are crowded, and that many are continually taking refuge on the steps of churches, and examine our accounts in Janffen’s Lijls and the Judges’ Returns, we may reckon that there are more murders committed in a year in the city of Naples or Rome, than in Great Britain and Ireland. Does not this prove that the English are not naturally cruel i And might not arguments be derived from hence, for the re-vifal and repeal of some of our sanguinary laws i The Marquis Beccaria justly remarks, in his EJJay on Crimes and Punishments, chap. 2S. “ That the punishment of death is pernicious to society, from the example of barbarity it affords.”

+ In many of the Italian hospitals, and in all that I have seen belonging to this order of friars, there are no rooms over the sick wards, so that they arc as lofty as our churches or chapels.

At

ITALY.

57

At Lucca, they formerly fold their condannati to the Genoese or Venetians, but now they keep them in prison without any employment.

At Genoa, besides a prison for debtors, and a prison hr female criminals.i there is a great prison for male criminals, confiding of thirty-five rooms. I saw none of the prisoners in irons. Their daily allowance was thirteen ounces of good wheaten bread for each. To this prison belongs an hospital and a chapel, with a large room to which the condemned are brought four days before their execution. — The in-strucftions formed for this prison by the supreme Jyndics, are hung up in it, and contain good regulations, as will appear from the following account of a few of them.

The keeper shall have under him six afiistants: — and the said keeper is to be responsible, and liable to punishment, if any of the afiistants shall be guilty of the least fraud or neglect in their employment. — The advocate fiscal is once a week, at any time he shall think proper (but when he is leaf expected) to visit the cells of the prison, and to enquire diligently how the prisoners are treated by the keeper and afiistants, in order to give information to the most ferenefenate, &c. — When any prisoner is condemned to death, he is immediately to be put into chains. — The keeper is always to keep the chapel shut, except at the time of celebrating mass, confession, or administering consolation to the unhappy. — He is also to take care that the prisoners do not play at any games, particularly cards. The last order is, that this table of regulations be fixed up in the criminal court of justice, in the chancery, and in the apartments of the criminals.

In one of the galleys just returned from conveying some noblemen to their country feats, I found about three hundred stout fellows,

LUCCA.

Genoa.

Galle vs.

APPENDIX.

clean and healthy: for the old and infirm had been left in the galleys at home, of which there were only two, the other two being out on a cruize.

The hospital for the galleys is on shore, and in it are hung up the regulations, which consist chiefly of such orders as the following:

That five superintendents shall be appointed by the magistrates, who every month shall draw lots, to determine which of the galleys they are to inspedt. — That exact lifts of the crews, and of the sick in the infirmary, with an account of the time of their admission, shall be taken and kept, with the assistance of the physician, chaplain, and surgeon. — That the secretary shall keep a register of all things necessary to be provided; bread, wine, meat, pease, beans, rice, &c. &c. — That four caldrons of broth shall be allowed weekly to a galley, besides kettles of broth statedly given them in the three winter months. — That when the superintendents discontinue the allowance of meat, cheese, oil, and stockfifh, the chaplain shall fee that each of the slaves be served daily with half a pint of wine. — That the physicians shall keep exact accounts of their orders of meat, wine, pastry, &c. — That the captains and midshipmen shall take care that all the regulations be exactly observed.

Hospital. In the great bo/pital there were about three hundred men and six hundred women. All sick persons of any nation are admitted into it; and it is one of the best and least ostensive of the public hospitals of Italy. Here was a room and ward for foundlings, crowded and close; and the poor infants were cruelly bound hands and feet with bandages.

58

Genoa

Galleys.

There

ITALY.

59

There were also in this hospital apartments for the insane. These apartments were close and dirty; and the calm and quiet, I found inhumanly confined in the fame room with the noisy and turbulent.

The Albergo hospital, situated on an eminence within fight of the harbour, is an asylum for boys and girls. There were in it a hundred and seventeen of the former, and four hundred and eighty-two of the latter. It is something similar to the noble and well-regulated hospital of San Michele at Reme. Over the door of the great room, where numbers were spinning and weaving, is this inscription:

Silentium et Obedientia.

In Milan, besides the great prison in which are twenty secrete chambers j* — the prison for debtors,-)- &c. — there are two prison s called U Argafiro, and La Casa di Correzione, which do honour to the country. Both are for criminals, condemned either for a term of years, or for life. The mofi atrocious, work in chains in the streets j the others only in the house.

* The general size of these rooms is eleven feet by twelve to fifteen. In some were only one or two persons, but in others fix or eight: the windows are towards a high wall eleven feet dillant. These are some of the strongest and mofi; retired rooms in the Italian prisons, which the mofi atrocious offenders, and those who are imprisoned for life, are confined. They are inaccessible but by a special order. The entrance is guarded by two doors, between which is a narrow space, jufi sufficient to admit two persons. Into this you are locked before the turnkey opens the inner door, for fear these desperate criminals should attempt to rulh out and murder the keeper for the keys.

•f- In this great trading city, there were only four persons confined for debt.

H 2 In

Genoa

Hospitals.

Milan.

6o

APPENDIX.

Milan

House of Correction.

In L’Argaftro there were three hundred and fifty-nine prisoners, healthy and strong. A considerable number of them were at work in public:* but in the house there were at work lhoe-makers, taylors, smiths, wheelwrights, cabinet-makers, turners, nailers, rope-makers, leather-dressers, painters on gauze, spinners and weavers. In one room eleven looms were employed, f

Their dormitory is a spacious room, with three stages in it on which they lie. In the centre of the cieling are four large apertures and sixteen small ones. J

There is a large court and a pump, and running water for wafiiing§ the linen of the prisoners, which they shift once a week. The daily allowance to each is thirty-five ounces of good bread, || and a mels of good vegetable soup. They have two hours for dinner and repose.

* They water the streets and public walks (at the expense of the city) there being nineteen small four-wheeled waggons for that purpose; fix men draw, and one attends behind chained. Others repair the pavements. See.

-f- Many learn several trades; so that there is a probability, that when their term is finished, they will become useful members of society; which should be the grand objett in all such houses. They receive for themselves one third of what they earn, and two thirds go to the house.

t A prisoner, whose employment was drawing designs and patterns, gave me a plan of the rooms and courts in this prison.

§ I observed to one of the prisoners that they were cleaner than mod working men: he replied, “ or else the confinement would be intolerable.”

|| One loaf was equal to the daily allowance of two prisoners, and it was divided into two equal parts with an engine, and each received his own portion every day.

All

ITALY.

All had a chain to each leg. If any escape and are retaken, the whole term is renewed, and half as much more

In this house there is an hospital, a chapel, and an apartment for the chaplain.

The Caja di Correzione is now building, on a noble and spacious plan.* The dormitory and the work-rooms for the men are finished and occupied.! In one of these work-rooms there were forty looms employed weaving linen, cotton, and diaper: in which also, and in two others opening into it, were warping and t-ivifiing-mills, and winding-wheels. Under these was a calendar: and some were employed in beating (not carding) cotton. In a detached temporary building I saw a prisoner employed in weaving gauze; who (as I conjectured from the great resort to him) was reckoned curious in this art. With the assistance of some whom he employed, he kept four looms at work. Ocher prisoners were bleaching the cloth manufactured in the house. And some were employed as labourers and masons in this great building.

Over the work-rooms is the great hall or dormitory, the room for boys, and the infirmary. The dormitory is lightsome, airy and clean, and appears evidently to be an improvement on that of San Adichele at

* The Count de Fir mi an, governor of Lombardy, whose amiable character is well known to our English travellers, not only honoured me with the plan, but favoured me with every advantage for examining the prisons.

+ The two work-rooms for the women, (just finished) are large and lofty, and in each there are five large windows, placed high above the floor. At one corner of these rooms are stone basons, with water laid in to them.

6 r

Milan.

House of Correction.

Rome,

APPENDIX.

61

Milan. Rome* It consists of a great room, (one hundred and twenty-four feet by thirty-one) f near the end of which there is an altar -with a cupola over it: on one fide of the altar is the dormitory for boys, and on the other the infirmary j and all together make the figure of a cross, which is the form of many hospitals in Italy and other Reman Catholic countries.

There were near three hundred prisoners in this house; twenty of whom were chained to two benches in the dormitory, but at the same time employed in spinning, making and mending clothes. There are two or three rooms, adjoining those in which they work, occupied as warehouses. All the prisoners work in irons.

Hospital. In visiting the great hospital, my expectations, which had been too much raised by the accounts of travellers, were disappointed. Most of the wards are on the ground floor and not lofty, as there are rooms over them. They nrc also dirty and offensive, though provided with spacious drains. They have a middle row of beds, and in many of the beds were two persons: but care was taken to separate the patients in fevers from those who were attended by surgeons. J

* I therefore insert the plan of this also.

of On each fide of the hall are three stone galleries, two feet eight inches wide, with iron rails. The chambers arc all numbered, amounting to one hundred and twenty: these are all similar, nine feet two inches by eight feet two; they have one window outward, three feet by two: and one towards the great room, two feet five inches by one foot five: they are furnished with a bed and bedding, a (tool, and a vault. In the infirmary, and the dormitory for boys, as well as in the great hall, there were Hone finks and water laid in.

J Most of the chirurgical patients had been wounded in sudden quarrels or afiaults.

The

' JOOJ tTFijSt,3 «WJ» ^iwqi tpnj « 41103 tnnai,\ e*p.

ITALY.

(*3

The hospital of S. Gio di Dio exhibits that cleanliness and attention, which this fraternity always discovers.

In the hospital for orphans called La Stella, the work and bed rooms were spacious, neat and agreeable. There were three hundred girls in it j whose employment was making lace on round pi’lows.

In the prison at the Citadel of Turin there, were one hundred and seventy in irons some had the half-chain, others were chained two and two together. These prisoners continue always unemployed, till they are sent to the galleys at Villa-Franca. Their unhealthy countenances plainly Ihewed the little attention paid to them. — In this prison there was a chamber for convalescents, who not being fit for labour, are continued here forty days before they are sent to the galleys.

In the great hospital of San. Giovanni there were a multitude of old men and women, whose apartments had a very improper communication with the wards of the sick and dying.

In the hospital of La Carita, there were about two thousand inhabitants, mostly boys and girls.

Here also is an hospital for litnaticks, where with pain, I saw wards crowded with beds, and in some of them miserable creatures chained and raving.

At Chamberry I found that the salutary practice of washing the prison was adopted. Belides the stated -allowance of good bread, the

* I wished them a more healthy employment, and that they had used the square pillows of Flanders; for constantly (looping mud be prejudicial. Such as are thus employed are generally of a pale and sickly complexion.

prisoners

Milan

Hospitals.

T UR1N Citadel.

Hospitals,

Ch amber. iv.

6 4

APPENDIX.

Turin. prisoners are often supplied with bread and soup, and in winter with clothes and coverlids, by a charitable society of ladies. In one of the rooms I saw chains; but was told they had not been used since the walls had been built high. A dismal torture chamber, into which day-light never enters, makes a part of this prifun.

Geneva. At Geneva I revisited the prison which was formerly the bishop’s palace. There were in ir rvvo debtors, and five other prisoners; to whom great attention was paid, as they were then laying new floors, left the rooms should be damp and injurious to their health.

In the house of cmr eft ion there were no prisoners.

SWITZERLAND.

In entering Switzerland from Geneva, a traveller will be furpri-fed to meet frequently with a gibbet on the road, if he be not informed that almost every seigneurie or bailiwick has a prison, and possesses the power of trying criminals and capitally convicting them. I visited one of these prisons. It belonged to Mr. Baron de Prangins,

*1 hoped to have found here no torture chambers, but I had only the pleasure to hear that none had suffered in them these twenty five years. They are thus retrained by the thirty second article in the Rcgletnent de I'illujlre Mediation pour la pacification des troubles de la Republique de Geneve, published in 1738, "Let accuses ct “ criminels ne pourront etre appliques d la Quejiion ott Torture, que prealablcment ils n'ayer.t “ etc par jugtment defiuitif, eondatw.es amort.”

and

SWITZERLAND.

65

and consisted of four rooms at the top of his castle. * It was empty: and this is commonly the case with the prisons in this country, in consequence of the virtuous education and industry of the inhabitants.

At Frey burg there were no prisoners except a few in the house of correction. The men convicts are employed abroad in cleaning the streets, &c.

There were none confined in all the prisons at Bern, except in the two houses of correction. In that for the city, the men and women were spinning. In the other, called the Scallenhaus, there were a hundred men and forty-one women, who were in separate apartments, and three different rooms assigned to each sex according to their different crimes and the terms for which they were condemned, f They were all employed either in the house or abroad, except fifteen, who seemed miserable for want of employment. J

* I observed the fame thing at the castle in the isle of Gcrgona in Italy, where were two rooms at the top of the building for prisons. This is different from the

J

ancient cruel mode of confining prisoners in pits and dungeons of castles.

■f- An old keeper having left the door of one of the men’s wards unlocked, twelve prisoners forced the outer door and walked off. The people, who happened to fee them, suffering them to pass, because they supposed they were going to work in the streets. When four or five of them some time after were retaken and carried to their old lodgings, the magistrates ordered that they should net be funished, considering that every one must be desirous of gaining liberty. As they had not been guilty of assault or violence in making their escape, the punishment fell on the keeper for his negligence.

J Where the crimes are of such a nature as to allow or require indulgence, it should be given them by shortening their term of confinement, or in some other way, instead cf allowing them to be idle. I have seen this false indulgence to prisoners in several places.

I Some

Freyburc.

Bern.

66

Bern

House of Correction.

Zurich.

APPENDIX.

Some of the women were employed in spinning. I law them bring in their week’s work, and after it was examined, receive twenty-seven pounds of flax for the following week. At that time some of the town’s people came and purchased the flax that had been spun, and paid for it to an ittfpeflor who lives near the prison.

As the employment of the male convicts out of doors is here somewhat. similar to that at Milan, I give a representatinn of it from a draught taken by a painter in this city; I have also given a view of the employment of the women, though I deteft the custom of daily exposing that sex to such ignominy and severity, unless when they are totally abandoned, and have loft all the foster feelings of their sex.*

At Zurich there is a prison, situated in the middle of the river, for capital crimes, t and a house cf correction. In the latter, which is convenient and spacious, there were about sixty prisoners. Nine-

* Will it need an apology if the mode of publishing the affine of bread in this

% U

City be just mentioned ? It is better than that at Vienna and several other cities. In the middle of the window of every baker’s Atop is hung up in full vita.v, the bill on pasteboard, specifying the weight and price of three different sorts of bread, and, at the bottom, that of the fine rolls. The bills are signed by the magistrates’ secretary. If the price continues the fame the following month, the secretary notes it on all the bills. I copied one of these bills, and purchased the different sorts of bread, which I found to be full, or rather over weight.

f Here was only one prisoner. The first room was for examination; in it were five different weights for torture, and if we may depend on tradition, the heaviest, which is one hundred and twenty pounds, was used in torturing a burgomaster of this city.

teen

GERMANY.

67

teen of the men worked abroad for the citizens, who paid them for their work, but not so much as other labourers. The rest were spinning within doors or working at some trade. I observed one woman colouring botanical prints. They have a chapel in which they attend divine service, and are catechised every friday. Three times a day, such of them as do not work abroad walk under arcades in a large square court, during which time, by the advice of one of the physicians in this city, their rooms are thoroughly aired, the doors and windows being thrown open. They have good bedding; and they are well supplied with bread and soup every day, but no meat.

The prisoners on entrance have the house clothes, and their own are hung up, with their names, and the time of their commitment, noted upon them.

There were no prisoners at S chaffhaufen, except three in the house of correction.

From Switzerland I returned into Germany, to visit some prisons which I had not seen, particularly those in the free or imperial Cities.

GERMANY.

AT Augsburg, the prison is on the fide of a hill, at the back of the town-house. It consists of many cachots or small rooms on three different floors. There is one for examination, and there are two for the

I 2 engines

Zurich

House

OK

Correction.

SCHAFF-HAUSEN.

Augsburg.

63

APPENDIX.

Aucsburg.

Munich.

engines of torture.* The condemned are brought three dajs before their execution into two light rooms, which open into a Roman catholic chapel: where, however, if a prisoner be a protestant, a Lutheran minister is permitted to attend him.

The hcufe of correction consists of buildings on two fides of a spacious court; one fide for those of the Roman catholic religion, and the other for protestants, with a chapel for each. The rooms were'all clean, and are white-washed every year. Opposite to the front windows in mofl of the rooms, were high windows, of a lemi-circular form, which were designed for promoting a circulation of air.

At Munich or Munchen there are two prisons for criminals. One in the town-house had in it fix men and two women prisoners.f In a dark damp dungeon down seventeen steps were the instruments of torture.

The other, called La, Pri/on de la Ccttr, consisted of about fifteen cells, twelve feet by seven, and a black torture-room.

In

* There are a!so two dark dungeons for such as have been convicted of witchcraft: but they are in a very ruinous condition, and seem to have been a long time without inhabitants.

f Once a year, viz. on All-faints day, any persons are permitted to enter and fee the prison. There is a cultom similar to this in Holland, at the Fair and other fixed times.

I In this room there is a table covered with black cloth and fringe. Six chairs for the magistrates and secretaries covered also with black cloth, are elevated two steps

above

GERMANY.

Im the house of correction were about forty men and thirty women some weaving wide cloth, but most of them /pinning. The keeper ordered his servant to attend me with charcoal and frankincense; a certain sign of negligence and inattention, which the countenances of the prisoners confirmed.

I was agreeably relieved from the pain excited by these scenes, with the view of the two hospitals of Les Freres and Les Saenrs de Charite. In the former were about forty beds in the latter, twenty: the wards were about twenty-six feet wide. All was neat and clean, still and quiet; and the great attention paid to the patients was every where apparent. I saw the operation of bleeding performed by the nuns with great dexterity and tenderness. Over the foot of each bed a text of scripture was inscribed, as in some Italian hospitals.

The prison at Ratijbon or Regenflntrg is in the town-house. Many of the chambers are airy, and most of them have stoves. There are

above the floor and painted black. Various engines of torture, some of which are stained with blood, hang round the room. When the criminals fufter, the candles are lighted; for the windows are shut close, to prevent their cries being heard abroad. Two crucifixes are presented to the view of the unhappy objetts. But it is too (hocking to relate their different modes of cruelty. Even women are not spared. — This room fecms very much like the torture-room in Spain, described in Limharch's Hijiory of the Inquiftion translated by Chandler, vol. II. p. 221, 4to. edit. “ It was a large under-“ ground room, arched, and the walls covered with black hangings. The candle-“ flicks were fattened to the wall, and the whole room enlightned with candles placed “ in them. — The inquisitor and notary fat at a table, so that the place seemed as the “ very mansion of death, every thing appearing so terrible and awful.”

69

Munich.

Hospitals.

Ratiseon.

no

APPENDIX.

70

R ATI S EON.

NUR EN-EURC.

no dungeons, but three dark cellars for torture, at which two sena-tors, their fee Jet ary, and the hangman with his valets afilft. At Munich and some other places, a surgeon also attends; but I heard of no such custom here.

At the back of the orphan-house is the henje of correfiion, in which were only two women.

At Nurenburg the prifou is under the towrr-house. There are fifteen steps down to the goaler’s kitchen. The apertures for admitting light into the passages of the dungeons are level with the ground. This is one of the worst prisons I ever saw. The dark unhealthy dungeons, and the dismal torture-chamber,* do no honour to the magistracy of this city. — The goaler makes use of a low trick to prevent the escape of his prisoners, by terrifying them with the apprehensions of falling under the power of witches, f

In one of the city-towers in which lunatics are confined, there are three or four rooms for criminals of higher rank.

* In this chamber on the wall is inscribed a gingling verse, which I here insert, as perhaps no traveller but mylclf has ever seen it:

Ad mala pat rat a, sunt atra theatra par at a. 1755.

f In several of the German gaols there are dungeons for those that are guilty of witchcraft, but they seem to have been long disused: and I hope increasing light hnd good sense will soon intirely banish the fears of witches, and consequently the ’witches themselves.

The

GERMANY.

71

The prisoners in the house of correction* were employed in grinding lpedtacle-glasses. The surplus of what they earn above forty creutzers or eighteen pence a week each, they are allowed for themselves.f Some of the women were working gold and silver lace on cushions.

At Schzvabach, in the margraviate of Anfpacb, is a large house of correction, in which were ninety-three prisoners. Some men here also were grinding glasses in two large rooms, and others, in different a-partments, were employed in polishing steel buttons for clothes, wiredrawing, and making spinning wheels: and I was informed that twelve were at work on the road. The women were spinning.

This house was clean and well regulated. The goaler readily supplied me with a book containing an account of the regulations, &c.; in which are some liberal and sensible remarks that appear worth transcribing.

* Over the gate of the house is this inscription:

Hie criminum frequentia Mortalium dementia Compefcitur dementia Salva fori fentcntia.

f The men grind seven glades in each hand. Some grind four hundred in a week, by which they earn fifty-two creutzers at thirteen for a hundred, and consequently each earns for himself twelve creutzers a week.

That this is a very unhealthy business is evident from the countenances of those whom I saw thus employed, and from the disagreeable sensations I always received from the dust in the rooms where they were grinding. The medical gentlemen prescribe bleeding and physick to these persons, two or three times a year.

Nuren-

BURG.

Schwabach.

It

y 2

Schwabach

House of Correction.

APPENDIX.

It is observed, “ that there is great error in expelling that a house of this kind should be able to maintain itself ■, since with the ftritteft ceconomy, a considerable annual fimi will be found necessary for its proper support.”

The greatest attention to cleanlinrfs is inculcated; bathing rooms are provided for the prisoners; and the expense of washing for them is reckoned an object not to be regarded.

The necessity for sick Hoards for both sexes is pointed out.

It is remarked, “ to be a very false notion, that a man who lives upon bread and water can work hard and be kept in health accordingly, as will be leen in the table subjoined, a daily allowance of hot provident is ordered for the criminals.

It is mentioned as an efiential point in order to preserve order and prevent abuses, “ that one of the city magistrates should every week in rotation visit the house, and closely inspect every thing relative to its management.”

Such prisoners as have been publickly whipped are called infames, and are distinguished from the rest, by having a particular place appropriated to them in the chapel, and by being made the last in receiving the sacrament. The chaplain resides in the house. The account of the daily allowance* to the prisoners was hung up in the dining room.

In

* Regulations of the daily hot provisions for those prisoners in the house of correction who are set to bard labour.

Sundays, In the summer months, half a pound of beef with half a pint of greens.

And in the evening, a pint of soup with eight ounces of bread.

In the <uinter months, half a pound of meat with a pint of four krout.

And in the evening, a pint of soup with eight ounces of bread.

Mondays.

GERMANY.

73

In a large house of correfiion near Bayreuth, in Franconia, the men Bayreuth. were all working on marble,* which is found in the neighbouring mountains, f Many were employed at the polishing bench, two on each flab. Others were variously engaged, in finishing, filing, or

Mondays. In summer, dumplings of wheaten flour. And in winter, pease.

Tuesdays. In summer, pease and peeled barley. In winter, turnips.

Wednesdays. In summer and winter, boiled millet.

Thursdays. In summer, butter soup. In winter, sweet cabbage.

Fridays. In summer, dumplings of wheaten flour. In winter, potatoes, and in the evening, soup with flour.

Saturdays. In summer, pease. And in winter, pease and peeled barley.

Further. Unto each of the said prisoners in the evenings, butter; and daily two pounds of bread and half a measure of beer.

For those who are put to flight labour the diet is similar, except that each has only a pound and half of bread daily, and no butter or beer: and on Mondays and Fridays, they have frumenty gruel, instead of dumplings.

To vagrants, and those who earn their bread by flight labour.

Sundays. Dumplings and soup for supper.

Wednesday's. Millet boiled in milk.

On the other days, no hot victuals.

To each daily, one pound and three quarters of bread.

* My ingenious friend and colleague, Dr. Fothergill, has proposed a scheme of this kind for the employment of our convicts, and pointed out many of the advantages which might attend the execution. It was printed in the Gazetteer, September 30, 1776.

f Some specimens of several sorts of the marble I brought home.

74

APPENDIX.

Bavrjcth

House of Correction.

Wurts-

BURC.

carving; or in cutting proofs or i'amples at the wheels; or in working on tobacco-boxes, snuff-boxes, &c. A large warehouse contained the goods they had finished. In summer, many of them are employed in sawing without doors; but in winter, they work in rooms: for were they to attempt this work abroad, a ludden frod might endanger the materials, but would certainly render it impossible to use the saw. The pale countenances of the prisoners were a sign that their work was laborious, and that the keeper had the whole profit.

The women were spinning worded, and appeared objects of companion. Their dirty rooms, sickly looks, and cutaneous complaints, evidently bespoke inattention and neglect.*

In the house of correction at Wurtjbnrg were fifty-four men and thirty-six women, employed in a well-regulated woollen manufactory. In one part of the house they were spinning; in another, picking and carding wool; and in another, weaving wide cloth for the soldiers,j* and also docking and waidcoat-pieces. — The women were all spinning or carding in one large room. As their spinning was of various kinds.

* I have their book of regulations: but of what advantage are ihe bell rules when not enforced

+ The wheels were larger than our spinning-wheels, the diameter being four feet.

Here, and at moll houses of this fort, are large looms (six feet seven inches wide) and two persons work at each loom. In a warehouse, the manufacturer (for all such houses have a manufacturer) shewed me several pieces of cloth for the under officers, the artillery, the soldiers, and the hospital or poor-house.

there

GERMANY.

75

there was a room with cupboards, where each person’s work was laid up separately. The task for each man or woman was eight creulzers, or three pence half-peny, a day. Here is a Roman catholic chapel, and the pried: lives in the house.*

At Francfort (on the Maine) there are five prisons. One is for debtors, where I found only three, who were alimented at ten crentzers, about four pence, a day, payable by their creditors.

The prison called La Lour de Ste. Catharine was empty. Here is a light room, to which criminals are generally brought from the great guard prison, just before their execution. The men are hanged, and the women beheaded; but executions are very rare in this city.

In the house of correlation (near the work-house) were three prisoners, two women and a man. The man was at work with two or three others in the court, beating to powder a porous stone, which is worked up with water, and makes, when dry, a hard cement or coat of plaster. The two women were employed in the work-house.

In the tower at Cologn there were no prisoners either for debt or for capital offences. In this and many other cities, the magistrates will not permit a debtor who has no effects to be confined. This city has not the power of executing criminals, but when they are condemned they are delivered up to an high officer of the cleffor’s, and confined in a

* Roman catholic prisoners are sometimes sent hither from other countries, for their term of confinement, as those of a different persuasion are sent to Bayreuth.

K 2 dungeon

Wl/RTS-

BURG.

Francfort.

Cologn.

76

APPENDIX.

Cologn.

Aix-la-Chapelle.

Liege.

dungeon in his house. 1 saw one thus confined when I was here three years ago.

In the house of correction, the men were beating stone to powder with small wooden mallets, as is practised at Francfort. — The women were spinning, or knitting stockings.

The great prison at Aix-la-Chapelle was unoccupied.

In the guard prison near the Maison de Ville there were two prisoners; one of whom was a very old man with irons on his hand, who was confined on suspicion, and had twice suffered the torture to force a discovery of his confederates.

Executions are not frequent in this city.* Citizens are always executed by decollation, which is performed by the broad sword, as at Hamburgh, Bern, &c. and not by a machine, as in some parts of Italy •, nor by the axe, as in England, Denmark, &c.

The two prisons (distinguished by the names of the old and the new) near La Porte de St. Leonard in Liege, are on the ramparts. — In two rooms of the old prison I saw fix cages made very strong with iron,f four of which were empty. These were dismal places of confinement i but I soon found worse. In descending deep below ground from the gaoler’s apartments, I heard the moans of the miserable

• In this and many other cities, the convifl knows not of his execution, till three days before the time. Then he is conllantly attended by his confessor, and indulged in the choice of food.

+ The dimensions were seven feet by six feet nine inches, and six feet and a half high. On one fide was an aperture of fix inches by four, for giving in the vifluals.

wretches

78

APPENDIX.

Liece.

Brussels.

trates, at the desire of their parents, guardians or relations. A shocking practice ! which prevails also in some of the neighbouring countries.

In the Matfon de Force there were ninety prisoners, ranged in four rooms, and employed in a woollen manufactory of linings for soldiers clothes. Persons live in the housewho well understand the business, and instruct the prisoners in sorting, carding, spinning, twitting and weaving. None of them were in irons. All had separate beds, and were supplied with good rye bread, — meat three times a week, — two quarts of beer, for each, every day, — and soup every other day.*

FLANDERS.

A t Brussels I revisited the prison Ld Porte de Halle, which consists of twenty-four chambers, distinguished by the twenty-four letters of the alphabet, and each prisoner had a separate room.

The house of correction is an old building, and the prisoners are soon to be removed to that at Vilforde. They are all employed ■, for at

* The chaplain, who lives in the house, favoured me with his company through the work-rooms, lodging-rooms, and the refedtory. He entered into the true spirit of this institution, and lamented the inconvenience of the house, as not being built for thdpurpose to which it is applied. He took notice of the propriety of solitary confinement for those that were riotous and refractory at their first coming; for generally, he said, “ in four or five days they would become very tradtable and submissive.”

present

FLANDERS.

79

present they have a careful and attentive keeper. Some tailors and shoe-makers were at work; but most of the men were occupied in the manufacture of paper-hangings; carving the moulds, grinding the colours, and staining the paper. The women prisoners were entirely separated from the meny and were employed in making lace. All the prisoners have clean linen every week.

At Ghent I went over the house of correction, or La Maison de Force, with one of the magistrates, and found that they were still carrying on a well-regulated manufactory. There were two hundred and eighty men prisoners, and one hundred and seventeen women. These latter had on the honfe clothes, and were at work. Molt of them were spinning or knitting, ranged in proper order, attentive and quiet. I was informed that all the prisoners are allowed one fifth of their earnings for themselves. I brought home specimens of the cloth, as I did of the paper from Brujfels; which I mention, because I know an idea has prevailed, that no manufacture can be carried on by convicts to any valuable purpose.

In the prison at Antwerp there are two rooms for citizens; and up stairs there is a cage, about six feet and a half square, into which criminals are put before the torture. — A criminal, while he suffers the torture, is cloathed in a long shirt, has his eyes bound, and a physician and surgeon attend him: and when a confession is forced from him, and wine has been given him, he is required to sign his confession; and about forty-eight hours afterwards he is executed.

In a small dungeon is a stone feat like some I have seen in old prison towers, in which it is said that formerly prisoners were fujfo-cated by brimstone, when their families wifiied to avoid the disgrace

of

Brussels.

Ghent.

Antwerp-.

So

APPENDIX.

Antwerp, of a public execution. No person here remembers an instance of this kind; but about thirty years ago there was a private execution in the prison. — In this prison there were only two prisoners.

House The river runs under the Iloiife of correction. At the entrance, on

O F

Corkec- one fide are the keeper’s apartments; on the other, the warehouse and the room for the magistrates.* On three Tides of a paved court there are thirteen cells for the men, and over them are the rooms for the women. On one fide of the court are the young women who are put in by their parents or relations; and on the other, the criminals. All the men were employed in spinning cotton, so were some of the women, and the rest in mak:ng lace. A pound of cotton at a time is delivered to each; for spinning which, thirteen Jous f are paid. I found, by the books, that at first coming, some did not earn more than seven or eight Jous in a week, but soon after they earned from twelve to fourteen. Rye bread (to the value of half a stiver each meal) and water, is their allowance; and whatever they have more than this, they are required to pay for out of their earnings. They are obliged to put on clean linen every week, towards walking which each pays a Jous. The ftovesare heated twice a day, and candles and lamps are provided, at the expense of the magistrates.

There are three rooms for the ungovernable. One of them has a floor made of triangular pieces of wood a few inches asunder. The prisoner is chained in such a manner in the middle of this floor, that he can move but a few steps; and being allowed no shoes, whether

* In foreign houses of correction there is a room appropriated to the use of the regents or magistrates, that they may the more conveniently inspect and transact the affairs of the house.

t A sous is about a half-peny.

he

FLANDERS.

Si

he stands or lies down, he must be in a very uneafv posture. — This room therefore is dreaded by the prisoners. The other rooms are abodes so dark and solitary as to be almost equally dreadful.

The men are never suffered to go out, except on Sundays and other holidays, when they go to the chapel, in which they have feats below. The women fit in a gallery with a lattice of wood before them. Here, and also in the prison, a table of regulations is hung up, which is read in public by the chaplain the first Sunday after the entrance of every prisoner. — Thefe regulations consist of thirty-six articles, from which I have taken the following extracts.

The prisoners must be lubmiffive to the keeper and to his wife; and if they think themselves injured, must complain to the regents. — The times fixed for rising are, at half after fix in the morning from December ift to February 15th, and all the rest of the year at five, or half after five; but on Sundays and holidays at fix. — The times of meals are fixed at seven, twelve, and seven. — The prisoners are allowed, at their own expense, at breakfast a pint of tea; and at dinner soup or broth, or a pint of tea or small beer, and at supper the fame quantity of tea or beer; and on Sundays and other holidays a certain quantity of boiled meat: and every week, a pound of butter, and fruit to the value of half a Jliver * — Every day the keeper is obliged to prepare two forts of soup or broth, and at seven in the morning to give the prisoners their choice of either fort, or none. — After service on Sundays, the men are permitted to walk in the court, and the women in the gallery half an hour, under the inspection of the keeper and officers. — They forfeit half a stiver, every time they curse or swear, or make a disturbance in the chapel; and also every time they are not up in half an hour after they are awaked by the keeper, and for every hour they sleep longer. — If they persist in insulting the

* A stiver is about a penny.

T

I

Antwerp

House

OF

Cop. recti 0 r;.

keeper

82

APPENDIX.

Antwerp House of Correction.

keeper or his wife after admonition, they pay a stiver, and are also punished by having their doors or windows fast closed up. — If ihey make any noise or disturbance after nine at night to break the rest of their fellow-prisoners, they are ordered to forfeit a Jchilling, and to be punished at the discretion of the regents: who are likewise empowered to make such alterations as they think proper in the rules; and in case of sickness or old age to give indulgences to the prisoners, with respect to their diet, times of riling, &c.

Lille. At Lille, La Pri/on Royale is under no proper regulation. And the unhealthy countenances of the prisoners at the citadel, intimate the pernicious effects of lying in damp rooms, under the fortifications.*

The two hospitals La Comtejfe and St. Sauveur are lofty buildings, designed only for the admission of men-, for in this city there are no hospitals for sick women.f The patients are distinguished into three forts, viz. wounded — very fick — and recovering: they have different wards assigned them accordingly. Every patient has a bed to himself. Here cleanliness is the agreeable effect of the great attention given to the patients by the Nuns. J

* I observed this, because there was reason to apprehend, that fomc of the Er.glish prisoners at Dinnan would be removed hither.

-f L’Hopital General indeed admits both feves, but that is on a different foundation, and is somewhat similar to the houses of indullry in Suffolk, Norfolk, and the ]Jle of Wight.

J When a sick person arrives at either of these hospitals, his bed is immediately Ihewcd him. Then one of the filters brings warm water, wr.flies his feet, and dries them, and kisses one foot. Another brings clean fhcets and a dean towel. A man-servant makes and warms the bed, and the patient goes directly into it.

FRANCE.

$3

FRANCE.

/i t Amiens are two prisons; one for Les Bourgeois et La Libertinage; the other. La Conciergerie. — In the town-house I saw great numbers attending the trial of a woman for confining her son. He was then about thirty-two years of age, and had been confined sixteen years, with a iiverity which had almost deprived him of his intelle&s. The prosecution was carried on by his father’s relations, who had been long solicitous for his release.-

At Paris is UAbbaye, a prison for the military or guards, and for such debtors as are of rank. — In the debtors rooms, a partition of lath and plaster detached from the brick-wrall, is an expedient to prevent escapes. For if the smallest perforation be made in the partition, it is immediately discovered, by the mortar falling between that and the v'all into the keeper’s court, through the aperture which was left for that purpose.

I revisited the other prisons here. — The exemplary charity established for giving clean linen to prisoners is of great utility, and well conduced. The supplies are regularly brought to the prisons every Saturday.

The infirmaries are supported by charitable contributions: a decent old prisoner is chosen to be keeper; and the turnkey of the women’s wards having less to do than others, has the immediate care

L 2 of

A M I E V S.

Paris.

34

Paris.

APPENDIX.

of them. The physician and surgeons are appointed and paid by government: but the fuel, broth, drugs, linen, and all necessaries, are amply supplied by the charity.

Prisoners are not properly separated. Though one turnkey walks in the court to prevent combinations, yet it is difficult to keep such as become king’s evidence apart from the rest; and the gaoler of Le Petit Chatclet was obliged to fit up a separate room for that purpose.

In this country, when prisoners have received their liberty from the king, or their creditors, they cannot be detained a moment for fees, hire of rooms, debts contracted in prison, or on any pretence whatever.

A prisoner of rank, a very sensible man, to whom I was speaking concerning gaolers, said, cc They pay nothing to the crown, and “ their revenue is not small; at the Conciergerie, it is about fifteen “ thousand Hires; at the Grand Chatelet, twenty thousand; at Fort “ L’Eveqiie, twenty thousand; at the Petit Chatelet, twelve thousand; “ at L’Abbaye, ten thousand. And all things considered,” he added, “ prisoners have no just reason to complain of this class of men in “ France. ”

The nomination of a gaoler belongs to the magistrates. When he has been nominated, he is proposed to the Procureur general; and if, after a careful enquiry into his character, it appears that he has the reputation of a man of probity, he is fixed in the office, and takes an oath of fidelity. The office is freely given him without any expense whatever.

In

FRANCE.

In the Sal Petriere, or great hospital, there were but few of the female convicts employed.

I was two mornings at the Bicetre, where I saw in the two halls above two hundred prisoners. Such a number confined together in idleness, must produce a great corruption of manners. Many at their unhappy end have ascribed their ruin to the flagitious examples they have here seen, and the instructions here given them.

The French now seem to be sensible of the bad police of confining persons here in idleness; for within the two last years they have set some of their prisoners to work. In one room I saw thirty-six employed in polishing plate glaflfes: and they are erecting a mill for grinding corn, which is to be worked by sixteen men at a time.

There were sixty-three in the infirmary, most of them ill of the Jcorbut. They contract this distemper in a year or two from their confinement, which is extremely cloie, since they are never fullered to go out of their rooms. Many lose the life of their limbs by it. I saw several such miserable objects at St. Louis’s hospital, where they are often admitted at the expiration of their term at the Bicetre.

At the gate of St. Bernard is the prison for those who are condemned to the galleys: there were only fifteen prisoners, who were chained two and two together. Their daily allowance is one pound and a half of good bread, and half a pound of meat, and soup. On meagre days they are allowed pease in their soup. On their journey they have daily two pounds of bread, half a pound of meat, a pint of wine, and about a quarter of a pound of cheese, or eggs. — They are sent from hence to Marseilles, Foulon, Brest, &c. on the 25th of May and the 10th of September, and are joined by many other con-

vids

8

Paris.

Bicetre.

Galley-

SLAVES.

86

APPENDIX.

P.\ RIS.

Hospitals.

vi<5ts from the provinces. I was informed that in May 1778, one hundred and sixty-three went off from this prison.

L’Hopital de St. Louis for the sick, and UHotel de Dieii, are indeed the two word hospitals that I ever vificed. They were so crowded, that I have frequently seen four or five in one bed, forne of them dying. In one of my visits at L’llotel de Dieu, I observed the number of patients written up to be three thousand six hundred and fifty-five.*

But though these two hospitals are abominable, and a disgrace to Paris, it has many other charitable foundations which do honour to it; and from which this country may derive useful information. — This is a subject foreign to my chief purpose, and I have perhaps already enlarged too much upon it. I cannot help, however, just mentioning a few of these foundations.

In the Hopital dc Id Title there were about one thousand four hundred and twenty boys, who are clothed, and taught to read, spin. See. These boys are admitted at about four years of age, and put out apprentices at thirteen or fourteen.

L’Hopital des Incurables is designed for the aged, infirm, and distorted, who are here clothed in a neat uniform, the wen in gray, and the women in black. The Nuns attend upon them.

Le Quinze Vinct Hopital is appropriated to blind persons.

* Over on: of the gates of this hospital is the following infeription, which, from its application to facb a place, has an air of ridicule and even of profaneness.

“ C’tft icy It Maifin de Dieu, el la Peru du del.”

L’Hopital

FRANCE.

«7

L’HopiTal des fetites Maftons et des Infenfez is situated in a spa-cious garden or court, containing a number of small houses for the aged and infirm of both sexes, and a hospital for the insane. Here are also infirmaries for the sick, which the Nuns kindly superintend. The neatness and cleanliness I observed in them gave me such pleasure as engaged me to repeat my visit. Each person of the insane has a separate room; and they also are taken care of by the good fillers.

In my last tour I had the good fortune to procure an extremely scarce pamphlet, published in 1774, written by a person who had long been confined in the Bastille. It is reckoned to contain the bell account ever made public of this celebrated drudture j and the sale of it is forbidden in France, on the fevered; penalties. I have copied from it the moll material circumstances of the description, and have added the plate given in the work.

“ The Bastille is a Hate prison, confiding of eight very drong towers, surrounded with a fosse about one hundred and twenty feet wide, and a wall sixty feet high. The entrance is at the end of the dreet of St. Antoine, by a draw-bridge, and great gates into the court of Id Hotel du Gouvernement, and from thence over another draw-bridge to the corps de garde, which is separated by a drong barrier conllrufled with beams plated with iron, from the great court. This court is one hundred and twenty feet by eighty. In it is a fountain; and fix of the towers surround it, which are united by walls of free-done ten feet thick up to the top. At the bottom of this court is a large modern corps delogis, which separates it from the court du Puits. This court is fifty feet by twenty-five. Contiguous to it, are the other two towers. On the top of the towers is a platform

Paris.

Bastille.

83

APPENDIX.

Bastille, form continued in terraces, on which the prisoners are sometimes permitted to walk, attended by a guard. On this platform are thirteen cannons mounted, which are discharged on days of rejoicing. In the corp de logis is the council chamber, and the kitchen, offices, &c. above these are rooms for prisoners of distinction, and over the council chamber the king’s lieutenant resides. In the court du Pails is a large well for the use of the kitchen.

“ The dungeons of the tower de la Liberie extend under the kitchen, &c. Near that tower is a linall chapel on the ground floor. In the wall of it are five nitches or clolets, in wrhich prisoners are put one by one to hear mass, where they can neither lee nor be seen.

cc The dungeons at the bottom of the towers exhale the moll ofl'enfive scents, and are the receptacles of toads, rats, and other kinds of vermin. In the corner of each is a camp-bed, made of planks laid on iron bars that are fixed to the walls, and the prisoners are allowed some straw to lay on the beds. These dens are dark, having no windows, but openings into the ditch: they have double doors, the inner ones plated with iron, with large bolts and locks.

cc Of the five classes of chambers, the most horrid next to the dungeons are those in which are cages of iron. There are three of them. They are formed of beams with strong plates of iron, and are each eight feet by fix.

“ The Calottes, chambers at the top of the towers, are somewhat more tolerable. They are formed of eight arcades of free-stone. Here one cannot walk but in the middle of the room. There is hardly sufficient space for a bed from one arcade to another. The windows, being in walls ten feet thick, and having iron grates within

and

FRANCE.

and without, admit but little light. In these rooms the heat is excessive in summer, and the cold in winter. They have stoves.

“ Almost all the other rooms (of the towers) are o&agons, about twenty feet in diameter, and from fourteen to fifteen high. They are very cold and damp. Each is furnished with a bed of green serge, &c. All the chambers are numbered. The prisoners are called by the name of their tower joined to the number of their room.

" A surgeon and three chaplains reside in the castle. If prisoners of note are dangerously ill, they are generally removed, that they may not die in this prison. — The prisoners who die there are buried in the parish of St. Paul, under the name of domestics.

“ A library was founded by a prisoner who was a foreigner, and died in the Bajlille the beginning of the present century. Some prisoners obtain permission to have the use of it.

<c One of the centinels on the inside of the castle rings a bell every hour, day and night, to give notice that they are awake: and on the rounds on the outside of the castle they ring every quarter of an hour.”

In inserting so particular an account of this place, my principal intention is to excite in my readers a strong detestation of defpo-tism, and a love for the laws which are the foundation of our liberty.

At La Prison Royale, or the new prison, at St. Outer’s, the daily allowance is a pound and a half of bread, and soup. The prisoners

M have

»9

Bastille.

St. Omer’s.

9o

APPENDIX.

St. Omer’s.

Dunkirk.

English

Prisoners.

have clean linen every week, which is the only reason why I mention this prison.

I.v the prison at Dunkirk, the French prisoners were in two or three rooms by themselves.

Here I found many of my countrymen prisoners of war. In five rooms there were a hundred and thirty-three, — captains, mates, passengers and common sailors all crowded together, — who lay on draw with one coverlid for every three persons. In three other rooms there were thirteen accommodated in a better manner, because moll of them were ranjomers * and capable of paying fix Jous a night for their beds. The court was l’mall, being only forty-two feet by twenty-six; nor was there sufficient plenty of water. The bread, beer, and soup were good, and the beef tolerable.f Each room was supplied with two small faggots a day for firing. The sick (of whom there were only three) were taken to the military hospital, and great attention was paid to them. The regulations were hung up in English\ and French.

In

* A ransomer is a person confined as a security, till the sum is paid for which a ship has been ran/omed.

f In the last war, the contrast here was twelve /out a man; at present it is fifteen.

J BY THE KING.

RULES to be observed by all Prisoners of War in the Kingdom of France.

ARTICLE I.

THE orders given by the commissary of the marines encharged with the care of the prisoners are to be llriftly complied with unargued and undisputed. None of the

prisoners

FRANCE.

91

In the prison at Bergi&s I found forty-seven English prisoners. The table of victualling was hung up here as at Dunkirk, but the

provisions

prisoners shall insult, threaten or abuse, much less llrike the turnkey, nor any of those appointed to do business in the prison, under the penalty of incurring such punishment as shall be ordered by the commifl'ary of the marines, and of losing turn of being exchanged; nay further they shall be close confined and deprived of one half of their food or pittance.

ART. it.

All and every prisoner, when the commifl'ary makes review, shall answer to their name or names, and if in the lilt delivered to the commifl'ary there be found any error, they shall point it out, that it may be rc&ified, in order to prevent the confusion that might result from mistaking of names.

ART. III.

All prisoners that shall refuse to answer to their names at the review, shall be punished by being deprived of their food till such time as they submit to the call.

ART. IV.

If there happen any damage to the place where the prisoners are kept, whether it be with intent to make an escape, or otherwise purposely and wilfully committed, the expense for repairing such damage shall be paid out of the food of those that are found guilty of the infringement, and if there be no means of discovering the guilty persons, all the prisoners shall contribute an equal share out of their food to the charges of such repair.

art. v.

Whoever after escape from his prison is retaken, shall be Ihut in a dungeon, and shall be Hinted to half his pittance of food, till he has by this confinement satisfied for the expenses made for seizing and bringing him back to gaol, and shall lose his turn of exchange besides. A sea-officer thus contravening, shall from that moment be looked upon and treated as a common sailor.

ART. VI.

It is forbidden to fight, quarrel or make any riot in the prisons or places where the prisoners are allowed to take the air, under pain of incurring such punishment as the offence may require.

Bercues.

English

Prisoners

M 2

ART.

APPENDIX.

cjl

Eercues.

English

Prisoners.

Calais.

provisions were not so good. There were twelve on their parole in this town, nine at Bourbcurg, and two at Ardres, who told me they had procured bondsmen for their security.

The common prison at Calais, being iinaller than that at Dunkirk, was much crowded j for it contained one hundred and twenty-seven

English

ART. VII.

The prisons {hall be kept clean and neat by the sailors, every man in his turn as shall be regulated, and whatever sailor llnll refuse this service in his turn, his food shall be withheld from him till he submit to it.

ART. VIII.

The prisoners are to inform the commifTary of the clothes or other necessaries they may want, and can pay for, and the commifTary shall not only allow them to be provided with such things, but shall also take care they be not imposed upon in the price.

ART. IX.

In every prison the prisoners may appoint three or five of themselves, and change them at their pleasure, in order to inspect their victuals and fee if they be good, and if they have their fharc or portion whether in weight or measure according to the following victualling table; and if there arise any reason for complaint, either of dressing, serving them up, or otherwise, they are with decency to apprise the commissary of it, who finding such complaint well grounded shall give immediate redress and do them justice.

ART. X.

It shall be allowed to tradesmen or fellers of ware (except such as deal in things that nre not fit to be sold to prisoners) to wait at the great gate of the prisons from ten o’clock in the morning till three in the afternoon, in order to fell their ware to such prisoners as have wherewithal to pay for them on the spot.

ART. XI.

Whatever prisoner shall dare by this means to take or bring in strong liquors or other things that arc not fit for prisoners, or shall receive or deliver any letter, shall be punished for the abuse he has made of this facility.

A TABLE

FRANCE.

93

English prisoners. Seventeen Tailors lay in one room * on straw, without coverlids a few had not even straw: on my complaining of this to the Commissary, he said, he would send to St. Omer's for coverlids. After informing him farther, that I had found captains, passengers and mates confined in France, but that I supposed persons of this description in England were on their parole of honourhe replied, and desired I would note it down, that cc a parole could not “ be granted without security; a hundred guineas for captains.

A TABLE OF VICTUALLING.

Days of the Week. MiddlingBeer or Cider. Bread. Beef. Butter. scheefe. Pease or Beans.

A Pot containing a quart and half Pounds Avoirdupois Pounds Avoirdupois Ounces. Ounces. Halt’ a Pound Avoirdupois

Monday Paris measure. I Weight. If Weight. 3 4 - _ Weight. s T

Tuesday 1 It 3 4 -

Wednesday I if 3 4 - - i

Thursday 1 If ' 3 4 -

Friday I If - 4 or 6 t *2T

Saturday I l4r 3 4 -

Sunday I If 3 4 - - I If

7Pots, oriofQu. I of 4* 4 6 2

In such where beer or cider cannot be had, there shall be delivered to each prisoner three quarters of a quart of wine per day, Paris measure.

* That room was nineteen feet by twelve. In another smaller room, in two tiers, were twenty-three hammocks belonging to the sailors; for sometimes their hammocks were given them. The court of this prison was only twenty-five feet by fourteen and a half.

Calais.

English

Prisoners.

“ seventy-

APPENDIX.

16

Amsterdam the terms of confinement of the convicts, according to their good or house. bad behaviour, as represented by the regents.

The house provides for the prisoners diet,* cloaths, shoes and stockings, with shirts of half-bleached Flemish linen.

Some persons are confined in private rooms, to which none have access, unless in the presence of a regent. Great care is enjoined the

* The diet of the convicts in the Rasp-house in Amsterdam.

Sunday Breakfast. Three slices of rye bread with butter, and a piece of dry bread fix slices thick. ( jV. B. Three slices weigh half a pound.)

--- Dinner or Noon. Half a pound of beef or pork, with beans, salt and

vinegar, and in winter full two pounds of salt meat.

Monday Breakfast. Six slices with butter, and a piece of bread of three slices thick.

-----Dinner. Gray pease with fdt and vinegar.

Tuesday Breakfast. As on Monday.

----- Dinner. White or gray pease boiled in water with salt and sage.

Wednesday Breakfast. As on Monday.

----- Dinner. Boiled oats or barley with sweet milk and butter upon it.

----- Supper. Butter milk, with oats or barley boiled in it.

Thursday Breakfast. Six slices of rye bread with butter, and apiece of bread, as on Sunday morning.

----- Dinner. Stockfifh, with Avect milk and butter upon it.

Friday. AsTuefday.

Saturday Breakfast. As Tuesday.

----- Dinner. As Wednesday supper.

Their drink is four pints of beer daily. But on holidays, viz. two days at Easter, Aflcenflon-day, two at Jf'bitfuntide, three at the fair time, and two at Christmas, they have for dinner, smoaked or salt meat or bacon, beans or pease, carrots or cabbage, and the three fair days they have strong beer.

father

HOLLAND.

17

father in conveying provilkms to those prisoners. With the regents’ leave, on Sunday mornings, some chapters of the Bible are read to them.*

The Sfin-house is for women. This, and the Work-house, are under the direction of fix regents and four governesses: who appoint two fathers and two mothers to superintend and inspedt the work, the diet, f and the lodging of the prisoners; and to chastise the disobedient.

* There are many of these rooms, or houses of confinement in Holland called Frbeterhuizen. The regulations of some of them I collected; but as they are liable to abuse, and contrary to the general notions of public justice, I cannot but wilh that they were universally suppressed.

•{•The diet of the prisoners is as; fellows.

Sunday Dinner. Cut-cobbngc with meat.

Supper. Butter milk.

Monday Dinner. White beans.

Supper. Sweet milk with barley.

Tuesday Dinner. Beans.

Supper. Butter milk.

Wednesday Dinner. Gray pease.

Supper. Butter milk.

Thursday Dinner. Barley.

Supper. Bread and beer.

Friday Dinner. White beans.

Supper. Butter milk.

Saturday Dinner. Beans.

Supper. Butter milk.

C The

Amsterdam

Rasp-house.

Spin-

HOUDZ.

9+

APPENDIX.

Calais.

English

Prisoners

“ seventy-five for mates, sixty for sailors, and twenty-five for hoys.” Passengers, I afterwards learned, were on the fame footing with captains. On the second day of my being there, the rules (the fame with those at Dunkirk) were hung up, both within and without this prison.

Many of the prisoners in this and other prisons had no change of linen, and some were almofi: entirely destitute of clothes, being the crews of veficls shipwrecked in the great storm of Dec. 31, 1778.

I found twenty-six of our people in a spacious ward in the military hospital, to whom great attention was paid. Each had a bed and Iheets: and their bread and meat were good. But mod of them having a disorder which did not break their spirits, they would have been better pleased if their allowance had been equal to that in the prison.

FRENCH PRISONERS in ENGLAND.

French

Prisoners.

"When I visited my countrymen confined as prisoners of war in France, some of the Comnijfaries and other gentlemen informed me, that they had received great complaints from the French prisoners in England. On my return in January 1779, I waited on the Cc;n-Htissioners of the sick and wounded seamen, and gave them an account of the English prisoners in France, and of my intention to visit the French prisoners. In order to assist me in this business, they very readily and kindly favoured me with letters to their agents at several prisons.

Having

FRENCH PRISONERS.

95

Having determined to take another general view of English prisons, to fee what improvements had been made, in consequence of two late acts of parliament,* and of the charges given by the Judges in their circuits to the grand juries, I chose to begin my tour in those parts where most of the French prisoners were confined; and of them, therefore, I shall first give some account.

In the Mill-prison near Plymouth, Feb. 3, 1779, there were three hundred and ninety-two French prisoners. The wards and courts in which they were confined, are not so spacious as those appropriated to the American prisoners, nor were they so well accommodated with provisions. The hospital, which had fifty patients in it, was dirty and offensive, and I found there only three pair of sheets in ule. — Here a new prison was building.

In the ship Cambridge there were three hundred and ninety-six prisoners; and the next day, two hundred and fifty more were coming in. The bread was heavy, and the meat bad; and too little attention was paid to the sick. An hospital iliip, called the Tiger, was fitting up for an infirmary.-)-

At Bristol, in a prison which had been a pottery, there were a hundred and fifty-one French prisoners, Feb. 9, 1779. The wards were more spacious and lei's crowded than those of the prison near

* i+th Geo. III. Cap. XLIII. and 16th Geo. IIL Cap. XLII.

•f- I suppose this was to be an infirmary only till the hospital which they were building in Mitl-prison was finished. The wards in this new hospital will be too low and close.

French

Prisoners.

Plymouth,

Bristol.

Plymouth.

96

APPENDIX.

Bristol.

French

Prisoners.

V.'in'CH ester.

Plymouth. There were n o day rooms, in which many shoemakers, tailors, &:c. were at work: an advantage which the prisoners at Plymouth desired, but could not obtain. — The bread W2S good. — There being no infirmary, the sick weie attended and victualled at a small house near the prison, where seven shillings a week was paid for each parent. There were five in that house, in a dirty and often five room.

There were one thousand and sixty-two confined in the prison a: K'lnchester, March 2, 1779. The wards are lofty and spacious. The meat and beer were good: but the bread (being made with leaven and mixed with rye) was not so good as that at Bris.oL — If two or three of the rooms were to beufed as work-rooms, the health of the prisoners would be promoted, and they would net be indolently hong in their hammocks in the day-time; as I observed they were, both here and at j45il-prif:n.

Several prisoners were confined here in the dark hole. — Forty days confinement on half allowance, in order to pay ten shillings to those that apprehend them after escapes, seems to be too severe a punishment. On such occasior.s, the observation of the worthy magis-(Irates a: Beni always occurs to my mind, “ that every one mud be cc desirous of regaining liberty.”

The hospital wards here are lofty, and upwards of twenty feet wide. Each patient had a cradle, bedding and lheets; and the surgeon paid them great attention.*

* Mr. Smith the agent also was aiudnoos ia his department. He mentioned to me, that he thoogh: i: would be an advantage if one cf their pwefts (two of whoa were at a little distance oa their parole) were permitted to attend the prifoners. This, he said, woald be the means of comforting forne, ofa\\eing ethers, and of giving information whenever there v.as any jtjt rcafoc fer complaints.

Is

FRENCH PRISONERS.

In a prison not very convenient at Forton near Gosport, there were a hundred and seventy-seven French prisoners, March 2, 1779. On that day the meat was very bad, and had been killed, as the butcher’s servant said, that morning: but it was returned, and Mr. Newjham the agent procured them good meat instead of it. — Moft of the fix pound loaves wanted weight. I saw the bread weighed for a hundred and forty-two prisoners, and observecl a deficiency of three pounds. — The straw, by long use, was turned to dull; in the mattresses, and many of them here, and at other places, had been emptied to clear them of vermin. The floors of the bed-rooms and hospitals could not but be dirty and offensive, the boards having been laid rough. I took notice of this kind of bad policy in all the floors of the new prison which was then building here, and ahnoft finiilied.

The regulations are in the French language, and are the fame with those published last war. They are evidently the original from which those printed in page 90 are transiated. For the fake of greater accuracy, they will be given at the end of the book. I was informed both here and at Winchester, that they had been hung up, but were torn down. — Would it not be better, to paint them on a board, which should be fattened in forne conspicuous place in every prison

On the prisoners complaining that the bread -was too light and the meat bad, I referred them to the ninth article of the regulations, by which they are directed to apply to the agent, and (if not re-dressed) to the Commissioners. One of them pertinently replied, <c How is that possible, when every letter is examined by the agent?”*

* I could have wilhed, that the gentlemen concerned for the American prisoners, had extended their regards also to the French, and by their attention and visits had obliged the contractors to be more careful in discharging their duty.

N

97

Forton.

French

Prisoners

There

98

APPENDIX.

Deal.

French

Prisoners.

Carlisle.

Pembroke.

There is a new temporary prison at Deal for French prisoners. It has an airy and spacious room below, and another above, and a large and convenient kitchen. — The regulations were hung up, and the provisions of all forts were good. I made my first: visit (as I do always) without the agents or contractors, and I had the pleasure of hearing the prisoners express their satisfaction.

The prison adjoins to the naval hospital, in which the Tick and wounded prisoners have the convenience of a ward, similar to that which the English prisoners have at Dunkirk and Calais. There were seventy-three in the prison, and fifteen in this ward, April 17, 1779.

In the county gaol at Carlisle, in one large room in the debtors ward, there were twelve French prisoners, May 10, 1779. They were not supplied with hammocks, as at Plymouth, IFinchester, &c. but lay on straw without coverlids. — Their allowance, six pence a day.

On the 5th and 6th of June 1779, I visited the prisons at Pembroke. There were fifty-six French prisoners in an old house adjoining to that in which the Americans were confined. Most of them had no shoes or stockings, and some were also without shirts. — They had no victualling table, nor did they know what was their allowance. There were two or three who had their allowance in money, which should have been three shillings and six pence a week each for their aliment, but six pence was deducted. — The common men, besides their allowance, received a penny a day each, by order of the French court. — They lay, in general, on the boards without straivj for there were but four hammocks in two rooms, each of which contained eighteen prisoners. Here was a court-yard, but no water or fewer.

In

FRENCH PRISONERS.

99

Pembroke.

In the two rooms of the town gaol there were'twenty French prisoners. They had some straw, but it had not been changed for many French weeks. Having no supply of water in the gaol, and not being per- Prisoners* mitted, as they are at the other prison, to fetch water for themselves, they are often neglected. On Sunday at noon, no water had been brought to them from Friday evening. — They walked in a field, with a guard, about an hour every day. — Their bread was tolerable, but their beer very small, and their allowance of beef so scanty, that they preferred an allowance of cheese and butter.

At a house appropriated for an hospital, there were nine French prisoners, besides five of the crew of the Culloden man of war, and three Americans. These lay in three or four rooms on ltraw with coverlids, but without fneets, mattresses or bedsteads.

Such observations as these have convinced me, that humanity and good policy require that an inspector of the prisoners of war should be appointed, who should be obliged to report quarterly their Hate as to health, provisions, &c.

Chester. 

At Chester Castle, Aug. 27, 1779, there were twenty-three French prisoners of war. They were healthy and well, and made no complaint.

Liverpool.

At Liverpool, on Nov. 30, 1779, were five hundred and nine prisoners of war, all French, except fifty-six Spaniards, who were kept separate on account of the animosities between the two nations.

These were all confined in four or five rooms crowded with hammocks three tier high; but they had a spacious airing ground.

There were thirty-six sick in some small dirty rooms of a house at a

JOO

APPENDIX.

Liverpool.

French Prisoners.

Edinburgh.

distance from the prison. These had no sheets; but much attention seemed to be paid them by the surgeon, and they made no complaints. At the prison the bedding wanted regulation. No table of rules or victualling was hung up, or ever had been. The prisoners rejoiced at the discharge of the late agent; and from the character of the prejcnt, have every reason to expect all due attention and humanity. Their meat was fine and good; the beer good; the bread heavy.

Here, as well as at all the other places throughout the kingdom where French prisoners are confined, I found that there was an allowance from the French court of one penny per day to all sailors and boys; two pence to boatfwains, carpenters, &c.; and three pence to those of superior rank; which is regularly paid them every month. There is besides a supply from the kune court of clothes, linen, and shoes to those who are destitute of these articles: a noble and exemplary provision, much to the honour of those who at present conduCl public affairs in France!

FRENCH PRISONERS in SCOTLAND.

I found in the Cajile at Edinburgh, July 6, 1779, sixty-four French prisoners, in two rooms formerly used as barracks for the soldiers. In one of the rooms they lay on straw, two and two, in boxes against the wall, with two coverlids to each box: in the other

* I have fmcc hoard that a bounty is paid by the Court of England to their prisoners in France, at the following rates, viz. captains, mates, failing mailers, surgeons, and llewards, three pence per day each; common sailors, boys, and passengers of inferior rank, three halfpence per day each; which payment is made every twenty-eight days.

room

AMERICAN PRISONERS.

IOI

room they lay on mattresses in hammocks. — The regulations as to diet, &c. were hung up. Their bread was excellent, and all other provisions good; nor was there any thing of which they made complaint. — They received every month, the allowance from the French court. — There were fourteen in the hospital, which was a house at some distance in the city, where they had bedding and sheets, and great attention was paid them by the humane surgeon and agent.

FRENCH PRISONERS in IRELAND.

On the 13th of July 1779, there were seventy-seven French prisoners at Belfast, who had been brought there the beginning of May. — There was no table of regulations, and they Teemed to be very much neglected. Sixteen of them were in the hospital, including three attendants. Many others were sick, but in the hospital there was neither room nor accommodations for them.

At Dublin, July 12, 1779, there were twenty-two prisoners of war, in a good room fitted up for a temporary prison. Their bread and other provisions were very good; and they were treated with all the humanity and kindness that could be expected.

AMERICAN PRISONERS.

In the Mill-prison near Plymouth, there were two hundred and ninety-eight American prisoners on the 3d of February 1779. Their wards and court were spacious and convenient, and their bread, beer, and meat good.

Edinburgh.

French

Prisoners.

Belfast.

Dublin.

Plymouth.

American PRISONERS.*

The

102

APPENDIX.

Forton.

American

Prisoners.

Pembroke.

The Americans were equally well accommodated at Forton near Gosport, where I found two hundred and fifty-one prisoners, March 2, 1779.

The table of regulations is altnoft the fame with that for the French prisoners. The principal difference is, that in the victualling table, the bread allowance is but one pound a day.

At Pembroke, June 5, 1779, there were confined in an old house thirty-seven American prisonert. Some of them were without shoes and stockings. — There was no victualling table, or table of regulations j nor did they know what the allowance ordered by government was, except only that it was the fame with the allowance for the French prisoners. — They lay on straw on the floor, and their ft raw had not been changed for six or seven weeks. — By liberal subserip-tions, ample provision has been made for the other American prisoners: I was sorry to find that these had been entirely overlooked.

In a house appropriated for an hospital, in which were some Englishmen and French prisoners, I found also three American prisoners very poorly accommodated.

Before I leave this subject, it will be but justice to mention the care and assiduity of the ComrJJfoners of thefick and woundedfeamen, &c. in London, who have themselves visited many of the prisons in England, and dismissed such agents as had abused their trust; and who are ready to receive any information which may be for the benefit of those committed to their inspection.

SCOTLAND.

103

SCOTLAND.

It may not be improper, before I enter on a particular account of Scotland. English prisons, to mention what further occurred to me worthy of observation, in a journey into Scotland and Ireland in the summer,

1779.

The prisons which I saw in Edinburgh, Glr/gow, Perth, Stirling,

'Jedburgh, Air, Sec. were old buildings, dirty and offensive, without court-yards, and also generally without watjer. They are not visited by the magistrates: and the gaolers are allowed the free sale of the most pernicious liquors.

If a prisoner for debt declares upon oath that he has not wherewithal to maintain himself, the creditor mud aliment him within ten days after notice is given for that purpose, with at lead: three pence a day,* but generally the magistrates order six pence. — By the process of Cejfio benonim,f a debtor after being a month in prison, may obtain his liberty, and be secured against execution for any previous debts, by making a surrender of all his effects to be divided among his creditors: though if he afterwards comes into better circumstances, his effects may be attached for the payment of those

* By act of king William’s first parliament, 1696, sixth session. Chap. XXXII.

f See the Principles of the Law of Scotland, 5th ed. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1777* p. 462 and 3.

debts.

IC+

APPENDIX.

Scotland, debts. This compassionate law prevents a creditor putting his debtor in prison, unless he has good reason to believe he is acting fraudulently.

Perjury is not frequent in Scotland. The oath, and the form of administering it, are very foleinn. The witness, holding up his right hand, repeats the following words after the judge : — “ By God liiin-“ self, and as you shall answer to God at the great day of judgment, “you shall declare the truth, and nothing but the truth, in so far “ as you know, or shall be asked at you.” — The depofltions are read over by the clerk, and signed by the witnesses and the judge.* — It is enacted by the 20th of George II.’ that “ the circuit-courts shall be “ regularly held twice in every year, within that part of Great Britain “ called Scotland, and the Judges thereof shall continue by the space “ of flx days at the lead, at each town or place where the circuit-“ courts shall be held, for the dispatch of buiinefs.”f

There are in Scotland but few prisoners; this is partly owing to the shame and disgrace annexed to imprisonment; partly to the solemn manner in which oaths are administered, and trials and executions conduced; and partly to the general sobriety of manners produced by the care which parents and ministers take to instruct the rising generation. J

I AM

* Leutbiau's Form of Erocefs, Edit!. 1752. p. 109.

f Tins good act is similar to one enacted for the counties of Wales in 34 and 33 of Henry VIII. Cap. XXVI. “ That every of the said sessions shall be kept and continued “ by the space of six days in every of the said lhircs, at either of the said times, as “ is and hath been used within the said three shires of North Wales."

I It isprovided b) statute in thefixtbfejfsostcf kingH'illiam'sf.rflparliament, 1696, Chap. XXVI. “ 'I hat there be afehool settled and established, and a schoolmaster appointed

“ in

SCOTLAND.

*°5

I am indebted to Andrew Crojbie, Esq. for an account, from the Scotland. Clerk of the Justiciary, of the executions from January 1768 to July 1779, which shall be inserted in a table at the end of the book; from which it will appear, that in ten years and a half there have been only thirty-nine executed, and eighteen pardoned.

In Scotland, executions are not delayed after conviction or sentence; a delay which is often equally injurious to the criminal and to society. Here, the punishment of the offender is made to appear the immediate consequence of his crime.*

All criminals are tried out of irons; and when acquitted, immediately discharged in open court.

In the Tolbooth at Edinburgh,f July 6, 1779, there were thirteen debtors and nine felons; and in the Canongate Tolbooth, there were

five

Edinburgh.

“ in every parish” in Scotland, and the presbytery hasthefuperintendenceof the execution of this act, which has been carefully attended to. Many schools are also settled by donations and legacies, and by the society for propagating christian knowledge; so that no farish is without a school, and in some there are four or five. In the southern parts of Scotland, it is very rare that you meet with any person that cannot both read and write. It is scandalous for any person not to be possessed of a Bible, which is always read in the parochial schools.

* By the act made in king Il'illiam’s first session, 1695, Chap. IV. all capital crimes are restricted to the trial and sentence within three Suns; and the “ Execution, “ which is hereby left to the discretion of the Judge, not exceeding nine days after “ sentence.”

+ I here give the table of fees from the Tolbooth in this City, which is the only one I saw in the prisons in Scotland,

O

ACT

APPENDIX.

106

Edinburgh.

five debtors and one felon: and in the house of correction there were fifty-three women, crowded into dirty and offensive rooms.

In-

act of COUNCIL regulating the Fees payable to the Jailor and Clerk of the 7'olbooth of Edinburgh. — Edinburgh, Seventeenth July, Seventeen Hundred and Twenty-eight. The which Day the Lord Provost, Bailies, Council, Deacons of Crafts, ordinary and extraordinary, being convened in Council, and takirg into Confuleration the present State of their Tclbooth, and particularly the Fees that have been in Use to be exacted by the Jailor and Clerk of the said Prison, both from Creditors at Incarceration of Prisoners, and from the Debitor or l’erfon himself imprisoned; and judging it highly reasonable, that these Tees should for the future be publicly ascertained by Authority of the Council for the Benefit of all concerned; •therefore the Council do tax and settle the fame as follows, •viz.

Fees payable to the Jailor.

The incarcerator of any debitor for any sum of money shall pay at incarceration one half-penny sterling for each pound Scots, and another half-penny llerling cf each pound Scots to be paid by the debitor at his liberation; and this in place of one penny sterling of each pound Scots in use to be paid by creditors at incarceration, and of the like sum of one penny sterling of each pound Scots, usually paid by the debitor at liberation as relief money.

Scots.

4

}o:

Item, Each person imprisoned for a civil debt or otherwise not being a-burgess, shall pay to the jailor of house dues each night attour1 what is above ——

Item, Each burgess imprisoned for a civil debt or oth«rwife, shall pay ' also to the jailor of house dues each night attour what is above Item, The incarcerator of any person or persons by the Lord's letters of| Laburrows shall pay at incarceration — — I

Item, The incarcerator of any person or persons on Laburrows by a 7 magistrate, sheriff, or justice of peace, shall pay at incarceration J Item, The incarcerator of any person for exhibition of papers, or for-) implementing of writs (captions for reproduflion of proeeffes C i: before the inferior courts excepted) shall pay at incarceration j

S. D.

6: S

3: 4 o: o 10: o

10: o

Tli F.

SCOTLAND.

In the Tolbooth at Glasgow, July 9, 1779, there were thirteen debtors and seven felons; and in the honje of cor re 51 ion, seventeen women were spinning, decently clothed.

I DID

The Council ordains and declares when any gentleman or other person shall be incarcerate in the Tolbooth, and shall desire to have a room in the prison by him or herself, such persons shall be liable for the conveniency of such room to pay to the jailor ten shillings (terling weekly in place of prison fees, or such as they and the jailor shall agree, but not to exceed ten shillings.

That all prisoners shall be liable to pay the under-keepers, and the woman who cleans the house, as prisoners were in use to do before the act of council the 17th day of July 172S; but if any dispute shall arise thereanent,' the magistrates for the time being shall have the full power of determining the fame.

Fees payable to the Clerk of the Tolbooth.

£•

1 at his I ,

_ to:

Imprimis, Each person Incarcerate upon any Laburrows, shall liberation pay — —

Item, Each person incarcerate by warrant from the magistrates, shall } at his liberation pay — —

Item, Each person incarcerate by warrant from sheriff or justice of the } peace, shall at liberation pay — — J

Item, All government prisoners shall pay each at liberation — 2

Item, For each petition by a prisoner for the benefit of the act of grace, and for the clerk’s declaration thereto subjoined shall be paid 3 Item, For the borrowing or delivery up of any diligence by which 7 prisoners are incarcerate (all magistrates warrants at or within ten > o mercks excepted) shall be paid — — 3

Item, All persons incarcerated or arrested for a sum or Aims at or below £120 Scots, shall pay to the clerk at liberation four pennies for each pound Scots; and for sums above £izo Scots, shall pay at liberation to the clerk two pound Scots and no more.

Item, All persons incarcerate for exhibition of papers, orforimple-T menting of writs (captions for reproduftion of processes before the > 1 inferior courts excepted) shall pay to the clerk at liberation J

O 2

Scots.

S. D.

12: o

6: O

12: o o: o 6: o

4: 6

10: o

107

Glasgow.

Item,

io8

APPENDIX.

Scotland.

Dublin.

I did not find above four or five prisoners in any of the other prisons which I visited, either in this or my former tour.

IRELAND.

I was happy in finding at Dublin a new gaol (Newgate) almost ready for the removal of the prisoners into more airy and convenient apartments, in which the Ihocking intercourse of the two sexes which took place in the old prison, will be avoided. This new prison is one hundred and seventy feet in length, and has separate courts for men and women. The cells on the first and second floors are about twelve feet by eight, and on the upper floor twelve by four, all arched with brick, to prevent danger from fire.* Besides these

Item, All creditors or incarcerators of prisoners for civil debt or othenvifc shall be free of all fees to the clerk at incarceration.

And the council statues and declares, that if any fees shall be demanded orexafted in time coming, by the jailor or clerk of their Tolbooth, other than these above set down, they shall incur the deprivation of their respective offices; and ordain their presents to be printed and published, that none may pretend ignorance.

And the council hereby ordains James Cleland principal jailor and his successors in office, to affix a copy hereof in the Tolbooth-\\ts\\, and in his own office, under the penalty of£5 Scots, toties quolies.

Extracted (signed) GEORGE HOME.

Edinburgh, the Sixth Day of July, Seventeen Hundred and Seventy-nine Years. These do certify by me William Gilles clerk to the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, that the above is a true and exact copy of the act of council of the city of Edinburgh, by which the keeper of the said Tolbooth and me as clerk thereof are governed.

William Gilles.

’ It would have been much better if the fame precaution had been used in another Newgate.

there

IRELAND.

there are dungeons, but I hope they will never be used. It migTit be beffc to convert the chapel at the top of the house into an infirmary; for the sick rooms are too final], and likely to produce infection.

In the men’s court there is a pump which supplies good water, and I suppose the women’s court will be provided with another. Great attention should be paid to air and cleanliness in the stair-cases, and the narrow passages * leading to the cells, to prevent them from becomine; offensive and infectious.

The criminals in the gaols of Ireland are very numerous; one reason of which may be, that in this country there are no houses of correction; f and another, that acquitted persons are continued in confinement till they have discharged their fees to the clerk of the crown, or peace, the sheriff, gaoler and turnkey. J Even boys almost

* They are three feet and a half wide, and the staircases only two feet one inch.

f It may be an exception, that in a house adjoining to Newgate there were several fines, &c. and in another small house adjoining to the work-house in Dublin, I found eleven young creatures who for small offences were confined with outrageous lunatics of both sexes. The magistrates seem to have overlooked a compassionate clause of their legislature the 3d of George III. Chap. XXVIII. “ that persons ofinfane mind “ and outrageous behaviour” are not to go in common with the other prisoners.

I There is an act “ for discharging without fees persons who shall be acquitted “ of offences for which they are or shall be indicted, and for making a compensation “ to sheriffs, gaolers, clerks of the crown, and clerks of the peace, for such fees,” by a presentment on the respective counties. But many that are acquitted receive no benefit by it, because the presentment mult be made by the foreman of the petty jury to the grand jury, and confirmed by the Judges of assize; and the sum presented at one assize must not exceed “ ten pounds if it be a county at large ;

“ or five pounds, if it be a county of a city or county of a town,” 3d George III. Cap. V, p. 100, 101.

109

Dublin.

naked,

I IO

APPENDIX.

Dublin.

naked, and under the age of twelve, are sometimes confined two years for thel'e fees, though amounting to no more than about forty Shillings. How surprising is it, that any kingdom can endure such injustice ! It is a particular aggravation of it, that the prisoners thus confined generally lose, at the same time, their allowance of bread. I have heard that Mr. Justice Aston always ordered the acquitted prisoners to be discharged. — Some boys were lately released from the county gaol at Ktlmainham, paying half fees; and others from Newgate, the Sheriffs of Dublin generously relinquishing their fees. But as those boys had been associated with the mod profligate and abandoned felons for many months, I did not in the lead wonder to find that some of them returned to their former habitation in a few days.

On passing this prison frequently, I could not avoid observing officers from the recruiting regiments waiting at the doors and windows, to receive either the offenders who were permitted to enlid, or any of their affbeiates. When the excessive profligacy and daring wickedness of tiffs set of people is considered, the mod melancholy apprehensions mud be entertained, of the dreadful consequences likely to result from their mixture with those who may have had a sober education, and have entered voluntarily into the service of their country; and likewise of the danger to society in general, front turning loose such a set of wretches at the close of a war.

Our English prisons have also contributed their share towards recruiting the army, enliding being the condition on which many have obtained their release from confinement, or immunity from some other punishment. I shall make no farther remark on this practice,

IRELAND.

but that if it be a necessary one, the legislature may receive fbme satisfaction from the effetfts of their late salutary laws respecting the health of prisoners. If this mode had been adopted while prisons were in their former slate, it would have been the occasion of carrying the most fatal diseases into the midst of our seamen and soldiers.

There is a new Marshalsea prison in Dublin. The first stone was laid, as appears by the inscription, July 3, 1775. Here were about sixty prisoners. — In the city Marshalsea, which is a very old building, there were fifty-five debtors. Many debtors in this and the other prisons, being not alimented, are objetfts of compassion. But the most needy of them are relieved by the care of a humane society at Dublin, similar to that called the L'hatched-House Society in London. — Such societies deserve the highest praise. I wish however to recommend to compassion other prisoners, who though they seem to deserve assistance leis, yet need it more, to save them from the ruin to which the bad state of the Irish prisons exposes them.

I am forrv to mention the common and pernicious use of spirituous liquors in the Irish prisons. — In Newgate, and in the county gaols that I visited, there were no tables of fees hung up.

There is an Irish act for preserving the health of prisoners, passed in the 17th and 18th of George III. Chap. XXVIII. similar to the English act* for the fame purpose. 3ut I did not find it " hung up"

in

1

* This differs from the English act in one important circumstance. The English act requires “ the walls and cielings of the several cells and wards, both of the debtors “ and the felons, and also of any other rooms used by the prisoners in their respective

“ gaols

III

Dublin'.

11 a

APPENDIX.

Dublin.

Hulks.

in any of the prisons. — There is also an act of the same year, similar to the English act, for “ the punishment, by hard labour, of offenders who, for certain crimes, are or shall become liable to be transported.” But the hulks on the Thames having cruelly destroyed many healthy and robust young men, their cries probably reached the Irish shore, and prevented any proceedings in consequence of that act.

HULKS on the THAMES.

In my former work, />. 75, I ventured to pass some censures on the management of prisoners committed to hard labour on the Thames; and in a subsequent visit I was still more convinced of the faults I had observed. The effects of these became so alarming, as to attract the notice of Parliament. A public enquiry was instituted, by which it appeared, that from August 1776, when the convicts were first put on board the vessels, to March 26, 1778, out of six hundred and

“ gaols and prisons, where felons are usually confined, to be scraped and white-washed, “ once in the year at least, to be regularly washed and kept clean,” &c. whereas the Irish act requires the fame precautions in the cells, wards, and rooms of gaols and prisons without rcflridlion; for the clause “ where felons are usually confined" is omitted. I have known it pleaded as an excuse for not white-walhing and keeping clean prisons in England where only debtors or petty offenders have been confined, that they were not obliged to it by the act of parliament.

HULKS on the THAMES. 113

thirty-two prisoners who had been received, one hundred and seventy-six had died. It is with pleasure that I can now give an account, which will shew in a striking light the beneficial efiecfts of this parliamentary interference, and the obligations the public arc under to the Committee appointed on this occasion, and particularly to its chairman, Sir Charles Bunbury.

At my last vifit, Nov. 16, 1779, there were at Woolwich, for the reception of convicts, an old India man, called the JuJlitia; and a frigate, the Cenjor. In the former were two hundred and fifty-six 5 and in the latter, two hundred and fifty. That which was first called the JuJlitia, is now converted into an hospital ship, in which were twenty patients. — Another, called the Reception, was empty: in this, convicts are examined by the surgeon, and continue four days, before they are sent either to the hulks, or to the hospital ship.*

The prisoners on board the JuJlitia looked healthy and well; the decks were clean. They had bedding; their provisions were good of the fort i and there were not any (as at my former visits) without ihoes and stockings. — I found the Cenjor, below deck, cleaner than the JuJlitia; yet, on carefully viewing the convicts, they had not so healthy and contented an afpecd: as those in the other j and a much greater proportion of this ship’s company was sent to the hospital. This created in me a suspicion that something was wrong. I examined all their provisions, bedding, &c. and found that they were the fame as on board the JuJlitia. It would be highly proper that a table of their stated allowance should be hung up, and feales, weights, and measures assigned them,j to check the purfers who give out their

* By the late act 19th Geo. III. Cap. LXXIV. f. 1418. f See a good regulation for the prisoners of war. Article jx.

P provision.

Hulks.

APPENDIX.

114

HULKS.

Gaol Fever

provision.* — In the Hospital ship, on the two decks (one of which is for recovering patients) were twenty-five cradles with beds similar to those in the Royal Hospitals at Hajlar and Plymouth, where all lie single. Of the few who were very sick, I found their irons were off. The cleanliness and quietness of the hospital do honour to the conductor. It is to be wished that the patients had better nourishment, as that in many cases would be more salutary than medical prescriptions.

There were about one hundred and fifty at work in the Warren; mod of them clothed in a brown uniform.

The situation of these unhappy people is greatly altered for the better. Yet their bread allowance should be half a pound more; for one pound a day is too little, especially for those who work, although they have an extra allowance of beer. There should also be to each bed, in winter, an additional blanket.

I shall take the liberty here to subjoin a few additional remarks on the Gaol fever; in which, if I shall appear to have invaded the province of the gentlemen of the faculty, I hope to be pardoned, from the consideration that my experience in this matter may in some respect supply my want of other means of knowledge.

If it were asked, what is the cause of the gaol fever? it would in general be readily replied, “ the want of fresh air and cleanliness.” But as I have found in a few prisons abroad, cells and dungeons as offensive and dirty as any I have observed in this country, where, however, this distemper was unknown, I am obliged to look out for

* Pursers weights are known on board fiiips to be two ounces in a pound ihort, their jneafures in proportion.

some

GAOL FEVER.

”5

some additional cause for its production. I am of opinion, that the sudden change of diet and lodging so affects the spirits of new convicts, that the general causes of putrid fevers exert an immediate effect upon them. Hence it is common to fee them sicken and die in a fiiort time, with very little apparent illness. Convicts are generally flout robust young men, who have been accustomed to free diet, tolerable lodgings, and vigorous exercise. These are ironed, and thrust into close ofi'enfive dungeons, some of them without ft raw or other bedding; in which they continue, in winter, sixteen or eighteen hours out of the twenty-four, in utter inactivity, and immersed in the noxious effluvia of their own bodies. On this account, the gaol distemper is always observed to reign more in our prisons during winter than summer; contrary, I presume, to the nature of other putrid diseases. Their diet is at the same time lew and scanty; and the powers of life soon become incapable of refilling so many causes of sickness and despair.

After the gaol fever has prevailed in a prison, nothing, probably, will be so effectual in destroying all remains of infection, as the mode of fumigation practised by the ingenious Dr. Lind for infected [hips. I shall therefore extract some of the most important particulars of this process from the account with which the doctor favoured me.

{C Charcoal fires should be lighted in the morning, and allowed “ to remain till evening, and half a pound of brimstone thrown upon {f each, their smoke in the mean time being closely confined. They “ may be made in iron pots. — This fumigation should be repeated “ every day for a fortnight. Every evening after the fumigation, “ the ports and hatchways should be opened, and the inside of the “ ship washed with warm vinegar: and after the last fumigation,

P 2 “ before

Gaol

Fever.

APPENDIX.

116

Gaol Fever.

“ before the men return to the ship, the decks should be thoroughly tc scraped and cleaned. If the infedlion has been very violent, the “ parts of the ship moll exposed to it may also be white-washed. — “ Every thing ragged and dirty should be destroyed, as also the “ clothes and bedding of such as brought the infedlion into the ship, “ the bedding of such as have died of the fever, and unless the infee-“ tion has been very mild, the bedding of such as have had the fever “ though recovered. The remaining clothes and bedding should be u purified by being exposed twice a week to the steams of the brim-“ stone and charcoal; or when the brimstone might be supposed to “ injure the clothes, they may be hung up in a close place, exposed “ to the smoke of tobacco strewed on charcoal fires. Linens, and “ such articles as will admit of being wet, should after the first “ fumigation be fleeped forfeveral hours in cold water or leys, be well “ washed, and then dried in the open air. — If, during the fortnight “ of this fumigation, any person is taken ill of the fever, the fortnight “ should again commence from the day on which such person leaves “ the ship. — Strict attention should be paid to the cleanliness of the “ men both in their persons and apparel: such as are sluggish and “ dirty should be made to bathe and clean themselvesj and a sufficient <c quantity of flops should be issued, that every man may have a “ change of clothes.”*

* I have observed in prisons abroad a very cheap and pleasant fumigation, which surprisingly corrects the bad air. I suppose it is the fame as is used in Roman catholic churches, iTS. juniper berries thrown upon burning coals in a chaffing-dish.

---

117

ENGLAND.

LONDON.

London.

THE TOWER is a strong fortress, and the only prison in England for state delinquents of rank. The care of it is committed to an officer called the Constable of the Tower, who has under him a lieutenant, deputy-lieutenant called the governor, and many other officers, among whom are forty warders, whose uniform is the fame with the king’s yeomen of the guards. Nineteen of these warders have separate houses well furnished, in any of which, as the governor is pleased to order, the state delinquents may be confined; and the custom has been to assign them two of the best rooms on the first floor. Sometimes they are committed to close confinement; but in general they are at liberty to walk in the area of the Tower, attended always by a warder.

There have been no prisoners here for a few years past; and when there are any, their fate is soon determined by a legal trial, and consequently their confinement can never be long. Six shillings and eight pence a day is allowed by government for their subsistence, but they seldom accept this allowance.

In this fortress, besides the houses just mentioned, there are several public offices and store-houses; such, particularly, as the office of Ordnance, the Jewel-office, the Mint, and buildings for holding artillery and arms.

118 APPENDIX.

London.

NEWGATE.

Every part of the gaol was clean, and free from offensive scents. On the felons side there were only three sick, in one of the upper wards. An infirmary was building near the condemned cells. — Of the one hundred and forty-one felons &c. there were ninety-one convicts and fines,* who had only the prison allowance of a penny loaf a day: Mr. Akerman generously contributes towards their relief. — In the felons court, the table of fees painted on a board was hung up.†

1779, Aug. 16, Debtors 51. Felons &c. 141.

THE FLEET.

No alteration.

In the House. In the Rules.

1779, Aug. 13, Prisoners, 147. - 37.

NEW LUDGATE.

No alteration.

1779, Aug. 12, Prisoners 15.

POULTRY COMPTER.

No alteration.

1779, Aug. 6, Debtors 46. Felons &c. 5. Impressed Men 3.

* There should be a reparation in all prisons of those called fines, who are committed for a term, from those who are only committed on suspicion either of felony or misdemeanors.

† Mr. Akerman was so good as to copy for me a table of all the executions for London and Middlesex during eight years past; for which see the tables at the end.

LONDON. 119

London.

WOOD-STREET COMPTER.

No alteration.

1779, Aug. 6, Debtors 58. Felons &c. 45.

1779, Nov. 15, — 38. — 11.

BRIDEWELL.

A good regulation has been lately made, that every person who is committed a second time to this prison shall have only half the allowance. A proper check where the allowance is so ample.

1779, Aug. 12, Prisoners 13.

To this prison were committed,

In the year 1776, Prisoners 983.

1777, — 544.

1778, — 1027.

NEW PRISON CLERKENWELL.

I found the men’s side very clean. — The fines have only the prison allowance. — The king’s evidence are put into the women’s ward, to secure them from the resentment of the other prisoners. — The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Goaler now Samuel Newport.

1779, Aug. 7, Prisoners 60.

1779, Nov. 15, — 45.

CLERKENWELL BRIDEWELL.

A small close room is used as an infirmary for the men: and two of the night-rooms are now made into one for an infirmary for the women.

120 APPENDIX.

London.

This prison was clean, but it is much too small for the number of prisoners. — Of the one hundred and seventy-one prisoners, twenty-two men and boys, and fifty-eight women were convicts. These were employed in picking oakum, the women in two rooms below, the men up stairs. — A warehouse and a shed for drying have been lately erected on some ground at the back of this prison. — The convicts here are allowed three pence a day. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

1779, Aug. 13, Prisoners 171.

WHITECHAPEL PRISON.

No alteration, but in the number of prisoners, since the late act for extending the Provisions of an Act, to prevent frivolous and vexatious Arrests; 19 Geo. III. Cap. LXX.

1779, Aug. 11, Prisoners 5.

TOWER HAMLETS GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, Aug. 10, Prisoners none.

St. CATHARINE’S PRISON.

1779, Aug. 11, I found the house inhabited, but no prisoners.

WESTMINSTER. 121

THE SAVOY.

The prisoners were in health; the rooms made more airy, and some adjoining fitted up for an infirmary.

---

1779, Aug. 13, Prisoners 98. viz.

64 Deserters, 21 Imprefied Men, 13 of the Guards.

TOTHILL-FIELDS BRIDEWELL.

This prison clean, as usual. There is a workshop with hemp-blocks, and a room over it. Two of the women’s night-rooms are appropriated to female convids, who have also a separate court, with water, &c. The women’s court is also enlarged, the garden-pales being set farther off. — As I have seen several sick objects on the floors, the Gentlemen, who are so ready to relieve the sufferings of their fellow-creatures, will forgive the intimation that an infirmary might be made over the women’s ward.

1779, Aug. 5, Prisoners 74. Imprefied Men 10.

WESTMINSTER GATE-HOUSE.

This prison being taken down, another is erected in Tothill-Fields, adjoining the Bridewell, but not yet inhabited, Aug. 5, 1779. There is to be a proper separation of debtors and felons; and in the court of the latter are four small rooms for the refradory. The pulpit is contrived to have both debtors and felons in view, though they will not be in fight of each other. The keeper from thence can

West-

MINSTER.

Ill

APPENDIX.

West-

MINSTER.

Southwark.

easily overlook them when they are locked up. — The court-yards will be plentifully supplied with water, by pipes from the Main. — The outer walls are too low, so that tools, &c. may be easily*conveyed over.

SOUTHWARK.

THE KING’S BENCH PRISON.

Some of the old buildings are taken down, and a chapel and many rooms are added to the new buildings, and another wing similar to that which has been already mentioned, but no infirmary. — This spa-cious prison is enclosed with a strong wall about thirty feet high, with a chevaux de firife.

Two excellent rules have been lately hung up and enforced.

Farther Rules and Orders, &c.

Monday next after three weeks from the day of the Holy Trinity in the 19th year of King George the III.

King's Bench Prison. Upon full and mature consideration had here in court. It is ordered by the said court that any man may lawfully be turned out of his chamber for the following causes (that is to say) If such person lets his chamber to another, or does not reside there himself, or if such person might have taken the benefit of any insolvent act or the lords act; or if he be charged by a friendly or collu-five action where there is no real debt.

By the Court.

Friday

SOUTHWARK.

Friday next after fifteen days from the day of the Holy Trinity ‘n the 19th year of King George the III.

King's Bench Prison. It is ordered that all prisoners who have been or shall be in the custody of the Marshal of the Marshalsea for the space of six months after they are superfedeable altho’ not superfeded shall be forthwith discharged out of the prison of the Marshal of the Marshalsea by the said Marshal as to all such actions in which they have been or shall be superfedeable. And that no prisoner shall be entitled to any room in the said prison by reason of seniority except from the time of his being charged in the actions in which he is not superfedeable.

By the Court.

1779, Aug. 11, In the House 511. In the Rules* 75.

Oft. 26, — 438. — 60.

MARSHALSEA PRISON.

No alteration.

Here the chambers want regulation. For in several rooms where four lie in two beds, and in some dark rooms where two lie in one bed, each pays 3^. 6d. a week for his lodging.

* The Rules, or Bounds belonging to this prison are extenfive, including St. George’s Fields, one side of Blackman-street, and part of the Borough High-street, of which a plan is published.

123 South-

WARK.

0^2

There

124

APPENDIX.

Southwark.

There are sundry small legacies, besides the county money which is £4: 10: o every month, and Mrs. Margaret Symcott’s (Eleanor Gwynn s) bread, which is sixty-five penny loaves every eight weeks j but no table hung up.

1779, Aug. 10, Prisoners, 88 Men, 4 Women.

BOROUGH COMPTER.

No alteration.

The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up, and no regard paid to it. The allowance a penny loaf a day each, weight in Aug. 1779, twelve ounces.

This prison might be made more commodious, by building on a piece of ground at the back of it, forty-one feet by twenty, which the keeper now uses as a garden.

1779, Aug. 10, Debtors 16. Felons &c. 2.

COUNTY

Home Circuit. HERTFORDSHIRE.

125

COUNTY GAOL AT HERTFORD. Hertford-

SHIRE.

The new gaol has separate wards and courts for debtors, men-felons and women-felons; and the whole is now surrounded by a wall fifteen feet high.

In mentioning the gaol fever I should have added, I was informed that a prisoner brought out of the dungeon as dead, on being pumped on in the yard, recovered. Since this I have known other instances of the fame kind.

1779, Sept. 27, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 17. Deserter 1.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

HERTFORD. No alteration. 1779, Sept. 27, one prisoner.

HITCHIN. No alteration. 1779, Oft. 21, no prisoners.

BERKH AMSTE AD. No alteration. 1779, April 23, 1 prifewer.

BUNTINGFORD. Two rooms; one for men, eighteen feet by eight; the other a new one for women, thirteen feet by ten.

No water: no court-yard. The keeper has a large garden.

Salary £9.

1779, Sept. 27, one prisoner.

St. ALBAN’S BOROUGH GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, April 24, Debtors o. Felons &c. o. Deserter 1.

LIBERTY GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, April 24, Debtors o. Felons &c. 1, Deserters 2. ,

BRIDE-

APPENDIX.

126

Hertfordshire

Essex.

BRIDEWELL at St. ALBAN’S,

For the Liberty and Borough.

No alteration.

In the work-room were two soldiers, and a girl who was sentenced for a year’s imprisonment, locked up all day together.

1779, April 24, Prisoners 3.

ESSEX.

COUNTY GAOL at CHELMSFORD.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Morgan.

Salary now £50.

The new prison is occupied. The felons apartments are entirely out of fight from the gaoler’s house. I beg leave to observe, that a window might be made in the gaoler’s kitchen, which would overlook the felons court-yard: and that the window in the debtors apartment toward the street is highly improper, as an avenue for introducing at all times spirituous liquors, tools, &c.

1779, April 7, Debtors 34. Felons See. 7.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

CHELMSFORD. No alteration. The county has all the profits of the prisoners work, which is spinning.

1779, April 7, Prisoners 27.

COLCHESTER

Home Circuit.

ESSEX.

127

COLCHESTER Castle. No alteration. I have remarked that there is no water. A well of fine water at the castle was lately arched over.

1779, April 7, Prisoner 1.

COLCHESTER TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

No alteration, but two rooms added to the bridewell.

1779, April 7, Debtors none. Felons &c. 4.

NEWPORT. No alteration. 1779, Sept. 26, Prisoners 9.

HALS TED. No alteration. The house is rented of the

trustees of Martin’s charity. The prisoners are employed in spinning, but are not allowed any part of what they earn.

1779, April 6, Prisoners 5. Imprefied Men 2. BARKING. No alteration. 1779, April 8, Prisoner 1. Imprefied 5.

HARWICH TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms towards the street. No chimneys. One back room with a fire-place; another called the dark gaol. No court; no water; no fewer. Allowance, three halfpence a day. Gaoler’s salary, £2:8:0. Fees, 6 s. 8d. No table.

1778, April 18, Prisoners none.

Essex.

COUNTY

ia8

Kent.

appendix.

KENT.

COUNTY GAOL at MAIDSTONE.

No alteration.

I found the gaoler attentive to cleanliness and regularity. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors are hung up.

The felons apartments are the better for not having glass windows. The wall being three feet and a half thick, in some measure breaks the force of the wind. The felons five night-rooms have double doors; if one of them was an iron-grate door (as at the new gaol at Horsham) and locked up in the day-time, the rooms would freshen and be better ventilated.

1779, April 16, Debtors 15. Felons 23, including 14 Convicts.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

MAIDSTONE. The new prison dirty and offensive. It is necessary to choose keepers who are attentive to cleanliness and neatness. The county allowance is three pence every day but Sundays. They were at work, but have no part of what they earn. Fees, 3J. 6d. No table. I saw two with the small-pox, lying on loose straw, and their only covering was common mats.

1779, April 16, Prisoners 13.

CANTERBURY. No alteration, but a partition in the women’s court to keep them more private.

1779, April 16, Prisoners 4.

CANTER-

Home Circuit.

KENT.

129

CANTERBURY CITY GAOL.

No alteration. No regard is paid to the clause enjoining that “ once in the year at leaf!” the gaols shall be white-washed.

1779, April 16, Debtors 2. Felons 2.

DARTFORD. Now there are two courts from the keeper’s garden, one for each sex, with pumps and sewers, and a room in the men’s court for the sick, But the women had no mats, or any sort of bedding.

1779, April 15, Prisoners 5.

ROCHESTER CITY GAOL.

The court-room was built, as appears by the date, in 1687; and it is probable, there has been no alteration in the prison since. The room for debtors in the keeper’s house, is only for such as can pay for a bed; for I found two in the close offensive room towards the street, who had been locked up there some weeks.

1779, April 15, Debtors 2. Felons o.

DOVER CASTLE.

Frederic Lord North is now Constabls of the Castle; and Henry JFood, Bodar. The two rooms were white-washed, and much cleaner than at my former visit.

1779, April 17, Prisoners 3.

DOVER TOWN GAOL.

No alteration; but the new keeper has a salary, £10. No licence. The gaol was much cleaner; and company were not drinking there, as at my former visits.

1779, April 17, Debtor 1. Felon 1,

R SUSSEX.

Kent.

APPENDIX.

13°

Sussex.

SUSSEX.

COUNTY GAOL at HORSHAM.

The new gaol does credit to the Gentlemen that superintended the work: it is every way substahthff and strong; and each felon is to have a separate room, ten feet by seven, and nine feet high to the crown of the arch. They are all arched with brick, to prevent danger and confusion in case of fire. To each room are two doors, one of them iron-grated.

1779, March 9, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 6. in the old gaol.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

At Horsham the Bridewell was discontinued, and the keeper discharged.

LEWES. No alteration. The apartments for each sex similar, but separate j a kitchen, five bed-rooms ten feet square, work-lhop, &c. Though I found no prisoners at work, it {items, they are sometimes employed in making whiting, as there were chaik, mallets, sieves, &c. in the men’s work-rooms. The keeper has all the profits of their work. The county allowance is a twopenny loaf (the -j}eight teas 1 lb. 5 oz.) The keeper’s house is detached, so that he has. no view from thence into the prisoners rooms or courts.

1779, April 19, Prisoners 8.

PET WORTH. The keeper’s salary is now augmented to £30, in licit of fees. The bread allowance is now a two-pound loaf

every

Home Circuit. SUSSEX.

every day, to be weighed by the keeper, with scales 'and a weight ordered to the house for that purpose by the justices. No alteration in the house.

1779, March 8, Prisoners 1.

CHICHESTER CITY GAOL and BRIDEWELL. The alteration is a pump in the court.

1779, March 8, No prisoners.

BATTLE. Two rooms fourteen feet by twelve and a half, in one of which is a chimney, in the other the flocks. Court-yard not secure. No water, but in the keeper’s garden. Allowance, seven farthings a day; the fame, the old keeper fays, in the thirty years of his time, and in the many years of his father’s time. Salary, £10. Fees, 3.1. 4d.

1779, April 18, No prisoners.

RYE. The town gaol is an old tower. The lower rooms arc, one about seventeen feet diameter, with a fire-place, and two small ones of about six feet; and above stairs are three rooms of the fame dimensions. Allowance to prisoners, three halfpence a day. Fees, 3J. 4d. No table. Salary, none. Keeper, a sergeant at mace.

1779, April 18, No prisoners.

R 2

f31

Sussex.

SURRY.

IJ-

APPENDIX.

Surry.

SURRY.

COUNTY GAOL in SOUTHWARK.

No alteration. The gaol was clean, and none of the prisoners sick.

Here I would just mention, that all the rags left by the felons after every assize, ought to be immediately buried (the earth absorbs putrid matter) or burnt; as they only serve to harbour vermin, dirt, and infedlion.

1779, Aug. 9, Debtors 23. Felons &c. 14.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

St. GEORGE’S FIELDS. No alteration. The fines or conviifts are with the other prisoners, and have the fame allowance. All are entirely without employment.*

1779, Aug. 9, Prisoners 44.

KINGSTON upon Thames. The act for preserving the health of prisoners was hung up, but little attention paid to it. The prison was dirty, and the prisoners unemployed, the keeper informing me, that they were not committed for hard labour, though one was imprisoned for a year. The three-halfpenny loaf weighed seventeen ounces and a quarter.

1779, March 11, Prisoners 6.

’ At my lad visit I observed the convicts were employed, in Clerken'ivell bridewell, in picking oakum, as I have seen in some houses of correction near the sea shore. This is a salutary employment, as the strong feent of the pitch and tar may counteradt any contagious or unhealthy effluvia in the work-rooms.

KINGSTON

Home Circuit.

SURRY, &c.

*33

KINGSTON TOWN GAOL. Surry.

No alteration. 1779, March n, Debtors 3.

GUILDFORD BRIDEWELL.

Three new rooms up stairs were lately added, and the necessary sewers. The act for preserving the health of prisoners painted on a board was hung conspicuously up in the court. None were at work.

1779, March 9, Prisoners 3.

NORFOLK CIRCUIT.

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at AYLESBURY. Buck.no-

HAMSHIRE.

No alteration.

Two men, sentenced for three years, had continued here two years and a half; one of them was much emaciated by confinement without work.

1779, Feb. 25, Debtors 6. Felons &c. 12.

COUNTY. BRIDEWELLS.

AYLESBURY. No alteration. 1779, Feb. 25, Prisoners 3.

NEWPORT PAGNEL. Two cells in the back court of a public house, seven feet by fix and a half, and six feet high.

The apertures in the doors ten inches by nine. No water; no

allowance;

APPENDIX.

J34

Bucking- allowance; no employment. The keeper lives distant. Salary,

H.UISHtRt.

£20. He pays rent two guineas.

1779j March -4, t jsjo prisoners> One or two had lately escaped. Oiftob. 13, 3

WEST-WYCOMB. This prison was lately removed from High~ Wycomb, and the keeper was dismissed at the Michaelmas Sdfions, 1778, for inattention. It consists of two garrets in the present keeper’s house. The windows are almost closed up, by strong planks nailed across for security. His salary, ^20.

1779, April 23, No prisoners.

BUCKINGHAM TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms below; one of which is the bridewell: the other for felons fifteen feet and a half by twelve. Over these are two rooms for debtors. No water. Gaoler no salary. Keeper’s salary, £2. —

Over the gate on a board is this infeription:

“ The Right Honourable Richard Grenville ‘Temple Lord Viscount “ Cobham caused this Edifice to be erected at his own expense for “the use of this Town and County: The Summer Assizes being “ refiored to this place and fixed here by A& of Parliament in the “ year 1748.”

1779, Oct. 14, No prisoners but a raving lunatic.

COUNTY

Norfolk Circuit.

BEDFORDSHIRE, &c.

JJ5

COUNTY GAOL at BEDFORD.

No alteration. The prison very clean.

1779, Oft. 16, Debtors 7. Felons &c. 2. Deserters 2.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BEDFORD.

No alteration. This prison also clean.

1779, Oft. 16, Prisoners 2.

BEDFORD TOWN GAOL.

Two new rooms. No apartment for the gaoler: no court: no water.

I779, Oft. 16, No prisoners.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HUNTINGDON.

No alteration, but the gaol not clean as formerly. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors are hung up.

Surgeon now, Mr. Perkins.

1779, Sept, 22, Debtors 11. Felons &c. 14. Deserters 4.

Bedfordshire.

Huntingdonshire.

CAMBRIDGE-

136

APPENDIX.

Cambridgeshire.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, CAMBRIDGE CASTLE.

No alteration, out the rooms boarded and made more secure. 1779, Sept. 23, Debtors 21. Felons &c. 2.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at CAMBRIDGE.

There are now two work-rooms, and two lodging-rooms. Mr. Saunders the keeper is attentive and humane. The prisoners have the whole profit of their work.

1779, Sept. 23, Prisoners 7.

CAMBRIDGE TOWN GAOL.

1779, Sept. 23, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 2.

No alteration: but I now'give the table of fees.

An Account of the Fees that have been anciently and customarily paid to the Gaoler or Keeper of the Eolbooth Prison in the Town of Cambridge, viz.

For every debtor £. S. D.

The commitment fee — — 0:6:8

The withdraught or discharging fee which is paid afterwards 1 Q

to the Mayor at every port — — J

For the care of the prisoner and chamber per week — 0:2:6

The 17 January 1765 At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held for the Town of Cambridge — We the Justices — of the said Town — having reviewed the abovesaid Table of Fees, do allow and confirm the fame

]V': Norfolk IV JVkijiin, Mayor Edward Leeds

IV li E men Elias Sowfler King Whittred

CAMBRIDGE

Norfolk. Circuit.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE, &c.

*37

CAMBRIDGE TOWN BRIDEWELL.

Cam-

BRIDGE-

In the Ipring, 5779j seventeen women were confined in the daytime, and some of them at night, in the work-room, which has no fire-place or fewer. This made it extremely offensive, and occasioned a fever or sickness among them, which alarmed the Vice-chancellor, who ordered all of them to be discharged. Two or three of them died within a few days. There are now added two rooms, in one of which are five cages about seven feet square: no fire-place.

1779, Sept. 23, Prisoners 6, and 1 Lunatic.

ELY GAOL.

No alteration, but the walls in the debtors court raised.

1779, Sept. 23, Debtors 7. Felon 1. and 1 Lunatic.

ELY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, Sept. 23, Prisoners 2.

WISBEACH GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, March 29, Debtors 2. Imprefied Men 3.

• Oftob. io, — 1. Felons &c. 1.

NORFOLK.

COUNTY GAOL, NORWICH CASTLE. Norfolk.

No alteration, but guard or barrack beds in the dungeon.

Surceon now Mr. Brown. Salary, £40.

S At

APPENDIX.

135

Norfolk.

At Lent Afilze, 1779, twenty-seven prisoners were carried to Lbetford, and confined there four nights, mod: of them in the dungeon.

1779, March 31, Debtors 24. Felons &c. 29.

NORWICH CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

The prisoners bread allowance nozv twelve ounces: straw, £1: 6: o a year. Clauses of act against. spirituous liquors are hung up.

The women have still their low night-room, and no separate day-room. The room adjoining, improperly used for a Jle.ble, would be very convenient.

Gaol-delivery being only once a year, three prisoners mud be confined from eight to ten months before their trial: as two were committed Nov. 6, 1778, and one woman Aug. 22, 1778.

1779, March 31, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 5.

NORWICH CITY BRIDEWELL.

The prisoners were at work. The daily allowance is two pennyworth of bread. The keeper’s salary, ,£25. Here is nofeparate court for the women.

I did not know, till this visit, that here are dungeons down fifteen stepsj in one part four for the men; and in another part, three for the women. In these, as in the other rooms, are cribs. It is to be hoped that Gentlemen who have made many improvements in their gaol, will be so considerate as to order these cells to be barred to all, unless to such as are very refractory and disobedient.

1779, March 31, Prisoners 7.

COUNTY

Norfolk Circuit.

NORFOLK.

iJ9

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS. Norfolk

SWAFFHAM. No alteration, but now licence for beer: — and clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Straw,

10s. a year. Keeper’s salary, £16. Surgeon, Mr. Say: he makes a bill.

1779, March 29, Prisoners 11, including the Lunatic.

WYMUNDHAM. No alteration, but the dungeon arched with brick. It is fifteen feet and a half by eight feet, and six feet high: a dirt floor: has two apertures at the top, of a foot diameter.

The Justices seem to have overlooked a clause in a late act of parliament, fC to prevent the prisoners from being kept under Cf ground, whenever they can do it conveniently,” * as there is abundant room on the premises.

In the room up stairs were four dirty pale and sick women at work, with padlocks on their legs, though never out in the court except on Sundays. The very small quantity of straw on the floor was worn almost to dust.

1779, March 30, Prisoners 5.

AYLSHAM. In the floor of the work or day-room is a trapdoor into a dungeon, which is nine feet and a half by six feet.

Above stairs are three rooms not secure. No fire-place: no straw: the court not secure j prisoners in it only on Sundays: no water: no fewer: no implements for work: no allowance, but two pennyworth of bread a day to vagrants. Keeper’s salary, ^13:6:8.

1779, April 1, Prisoners 4.

. Anno 14 George III. Cap. XLIil.

S 2 ACLE.

140

APPENDIX.

Norfolk. ACLE. A day-room and a room over it. Down nine steps are two dark dungeons, eight feet by five feet ten inches. This prison is quite out of repair. The date on it is 1633. No court: no water accessible to prisoners: no allowance: no draw. The keeper’s salary, £16.

1779, April 2, Prisoners none.

WALSINGHAM. A room fifteen feet by eight in the keeper’s court-yard, with two dark lodging-rooms about seven feet square, and straw on the brick floors. The walls of the court not secure. Prisoners in irons. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, ^13:6:8. Fees, 2s.

j779, Oft. 10, Prisoners 2.

THETFORD TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, Sept. 24, Prisoner 1.

YARMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, April 3, Debtors 4. Felons &c. 4.

YARMOUTH TOWN BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, April 3, Prisoners none.

LYNN regis TOWN GAOL.

There are proper rooms for debtors, felons, and petty offenders, and three cells for the condemned. The Gentlemen of the Corporation have been so compassionate, as to order cribs in the two rooms for felons, besides straw and two coverlids. The gaoler’s salary is now £20.

1779, March 29, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 4.

October 9,

COUNTY

Norfolk Circuit.

SUFFOLK.

COUNTY GAOL at IPSWICH.

I found this prison clean, though full of prisoners. In the centre of the ceiling of the new chapel is an aperture covered by a small turret, which keeps this room airy and pleasant. All prison chapels should be thus supplied with fresh air.*

Here are no alterations, but the water from the pump conveyed through the sewers, which prevents the court-yard, which is small, from being offensive; and there is allowance to the gaoler for conveying prisoners to Bury.

1779, April 5, Debtors 24. Felons &c. 23.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

IPSWICH. This prison is greatly improved. The work-rooms and chambers are nova twenty feet by thirteen and a half. The court forty feet by thirty-four.

1779, April 5, Prisoners none.

WOODBRIDGE. This prison is much improved. The two rooms enlarged, are twenty-eight feet by sixteen: the lower room is nine feet high: to each are three windows and a fireplace. The court is enlarged, and made secure: it is to be hoped the Justices will order a pump.

1779, April 4, Prisoner 1.

BECCLES. No alteration. No pump in the court; no separate apartments for women, which there might be, as the keeper has a large

* See Dr. Priejlky’s Experiments, &c. p. 281. His words are, “ I would ad-“ vise, therefore, that when large rooms are built, provision be made for letting out “ the vitiated air at the top of them.”

garden.

141

Suffolk.

142

APPENDIX.

Suffolk.

garden. In the room called the Ward, is a window to the street which is highly improper, as I have seen numbers of idle persons crowding about it.

1779, April c, Prisoners, 6 Men, 3 Women.

In this visit the keeper shewed me an old table of fees on parchment, which I here copy.

The Gaoler’s Fees for the County of Suffolk agreed upon 29 of March 1676 by the Justices of the Peace underwritten.

£•

Inprimis for every person committed in court — — o:

Item for every person committed out of court — — o:

Item for every person committed upon warrant or process — o:

Item for every person committed upon execution — — o:

Item to the turnkey — — - — — o:

.Item for every person upon his acquittal for felony — — o:

Item for every person committed upon outlawry — — o:

Item for every prisoner lodging in the gaoler’s bed for every night taking no diet in the house ——

Taking diet — — — — o:

If he find his own bed and take diet — — — o:

If he take no diet — — — — o:

Item for every prisoner that is not a felon that will go into the ward 7 and lye there for every night — — — J

Item if two lye in one bed and take diet in the house for both — o: If they take no diet — — — — o:

For the two belt chambers in the house as they can agree.

s. D.

I: 8

3: 4

3: 4

6: 8

1: 0

6: 8

10: 0

0 r 6

0: 4

0: 3

0: 4

c: 3

0: 6

0 3

Henry Felton Rob1. Brake Fbo. Smith

slnthy. Gawdy Fbos. Edgar

The*. Bacon Ch‘. Shelton

Tho‘. Bade

Ex per Ro. Clarke V. C. P. Com.

Since allowed by the Judges at the Assizes at Bury.

LAVENHAM.

Norfolk Circuit.

SUFFOLK.

»43

LAVENHAM, No alteration. The prison is out of repair: a prisoner lately escaped, for which the keeper was fined, though the neglect lay in the magistrates. No straw. No proper reparation of women prisoners: an old out-house and liable of the keeper’s might be made convenient for them.

1779, April 6, Prisoners 3. Impressed Men 15.

Sept. 25, — 3.

CLARE. The three prisoners had each a heavy chain, and the two impressed men had chains and logs. Each prisoner pays a penny a day for straw. No justices have visited this prison for fifteen years.

1779, April 6, Prisoners 3 Women. Impressed Men 2.

Sept. 25, — 1.

MILDEN HALL. Two rooms; the lower eleven feet by ten, and the upper twelve feet by eight. No fire-place: the prison out of repair: court not secure; no fewer. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £10. No fees.

1779, Sept. 24, No prisoners.*

BURY St. EDMUND’S GAOL.

They are now repairing the court-yard, and making it secure by chevaux de frise.

1779, April 5, Debtors 18. Felons &c. 5.

* The work-house, or house of industry for this parish, situated near the church, was the cleaned I ever saw. Here were upwards of forty persons whose countenances bespoke their satisfaction and the attention paid to them. If all the parishes had been as careful to promote deanliness and indullry in their own work-houses, there would have been no occasion for ether houses of indullry, mod of which I have visited in this and the adjoining county.

BURY

Suffolk.

144

Suffolk.

Warwickshire.

APPENDIX.

BURY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, April 5, Prisoners 2.

SUDBURY GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, Sept. 25, No prisoners.

MIDLAND CIRCUIT.

WARWICKSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at WARWICK.

The Justices of this county have taken the gaol and bridewell under consideration, and propose that debtors and felons, and also men and women, in both, shall be entirely separated. A chapel and infirmary also are designed. May it not be hoped that Gentlemen so considerate will not continue the damp and offensive dungeon, which has only an aperture level with the court, of three feet two inches diameter.

There were hung up in the debtor’s hall some rules against pro-fanenefs, rioting, and drunkenness, with penalties annexed; but I was sorry to find among them that " Every debtor at his or her first coming mud pay for garnish is. Gd."

1779, March 26, Debtors 22. Felons &c. 28.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WARWICK.

This prison is to be enlarged and improved. See the Remarks above on the county gaol. The keeper’s salary is now £40.

1779, March 26, Prisoners 12.

COVENTRY

Midland Circuit. WARWICKSHIRE.

*45

COVENTRY CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

1779, March 26, Debtors 11. Felons &c. j.

Nov. 25, — 5. — 4. Deserters 4.

No alteration in the gaol, but a table of fees is now hung up. Many rooms might be made for criminals in the adjoining old county-hall in which case the damp unhealthy dungeons need not be used, and the sexes might be separated.

Coventry. A TABLE OF DEBTORS FEES,

As settled — by his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace for the City of Coventry — at the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held at the said City — the 12 day of January 1778 according to — an act of Parliament — the 32 George the II. — for the Relief of Debtors.

Every prisoner that lies on the keeper’s side if he has a bed to himself a pays by the week — — — j

Those prisoners on the keeper’s side, and have a bed between two, a pays each by the week — — — j

If on the common side each prisoner weekly — —

To the gaoler for discharging every prisoner committed or detained in D his custody — — — — j

To the turnkey on every such discharge — —

To the under-sheriff for every discharge — —

For receiving and entering every declaration — —

For a copy of each warrant against each prisoner —

For every certificate of the cause of a prisoner being detained in prison } in order for being discharged — — 5

£■ S. D.

0: 2: 6

0: 1: 6

0: 0: 6

0: l3 * 4

0; 2: 0

0: 4: 0

0: 1: 0

0: 1: 0

0: 3 0

Sam1. Vale, Mayor. John Minficr.

John Clark. Tho\ L. Smith.

20 March 1778. I have reviewed the above table of fees, and do hereby establish and confirm the fame

W. H. ASHURST.

T COVENTRY

Warwickshire.

146

APPENDIX.

Warwickshire.

Leicestershire.

COVENTRY CITY BRIDEWELL.

The old town-hall is now made into awork-shop, and two lodging-rooms for men; the women have their separate room, and a small court. Water is laid in to both apartments.

1779, March 26, Prisoner 1.

Nov. 25, ' — 1.

BIRMINGHAM TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, Aug. 23, Debtors o. Offenders 8.

LEICESTERSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at LEICESTER.

No alteration, but an inscription on a board fixed over the gate, “That no garnish is allowed to be taken.”

It was remarked in my former work, that “the situation of the gaol is so confined, that it cannot be made convenient or healthy.” But I might have hinted, that the Castle Hill is near the Shire-Hall, and is a fine spot for air and water.

1779, March 27, Debtors 23. Felons &c. 10.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

LEICESTER. The allowance now is two-penny worth of bread a day after a month’s confinement. In the prison is painted on aboard: “By Order of the Court at Easter Sessions 1778, That there shall be no Ale or Beer brought into this Prison on a Sunday, fC nor after 7 o’Clock in the Evening on a Week day.”

Midland Circuit.

LEICESTERSHIRE.

147

I beg leave to fugged, that if a wall were built with brick, Leicester-instead of the clay wall, there would be no need for a chain and a log, to secure the prisoners in the court. The apartments also would be more airy, and men and women might be separated, if the narrow court were enlarged from the orchard, which is now let by the keeper for £6 per a,mum.

1779, March 27, Prisoners, 4 Men and 4 Women.

MELTON-MOWBRAY. No alteration. 1779, Sep. 21, No prisoners.

HINKLEY. No alteration. 1779, March 28, No prisoners.

LEICESTER TOWN and COUNTY GAOL. 1779, March 27, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 2.

No alteration 5 but a table of fees now hung up.

Borough of Leicester in the County of Leicester.

A Table of Fees taken by the Keeper of his Majesty’s Gaol for the said Borough.

£. S. D.

For lodging every prisoner per week — —

For a room, of every person who finds his own bed per week —

For the gaol fees for the discharge of every prisoner —

For the turnkey ——

A room called the debtors room if they find their own bed to pay For the copy of every warrant or commitment —

For signing a certificate in order to obtain a supersedeas —

At the delivery of every declaration — —

Attending upon every prisoner to give bail, special bail, habeas or i any thing necessary to go out of gaol for every mile travelling j

o: 2:4

o: 1:0

o: 13: 4 o: 2:0

o: 1:0

o: 1:0

o: 1:0

o: 1:0

T 2

Michaelmas

APPENDIX.

148

Leicester-

SHIRE.

Derbyshire.

Michaelmas Sessions 1776.

We whose names are hereunto subscribed three of his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace for the Borough of Leicester aforesaid do hereby allow the above Fees to be taken (the 13J. and 4d. above to the gaoler and the is. to the turnkey where the prisoner against whom no bill of indictment shall be found by the grand jury, and who, on his or her trial shall be acquitted, or who shall be discharged by proclamation for want of prosecution, only excepted.)

Will. Burleton, Recorder. Rob'. Peach. Joft. John/on.

We the Judges of Assize for the Borough of Leicester aforesaid have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above Table of Fees. Given under our hands this lid day of March 1777.

G. NARES. S. S. SMYTHE.

LEICESTER TOWN BRIDEWELL.

No alteration: but the keeper’s salary augmented to £5.

1779, March 27, No prisoners.

DERBYSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at DERBY.

No alteration. The a<5l for preserving the health of prisoners hung up.

1779, May 14, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 6. ImprefTed 5. Deserters 3.

DERBY TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 14, Debtors o. Felons &c. o.

COUNTY

Midland Circuit.

DERBYSHIRE, &c.

149

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at CHESTERFIELD.

No alteration. This prison is quite out of repair. A court might be made in one of the keeper’s gardens.

1779, May 14, Prisoner 1. Impressed Men 3. Deserter 1.

CHESTERFIELD GAOL.

No alteration. I found in this prison a strong bedstead, which had been compassionately left by a poor prisoner, that it might be some relief to his unhappy successors.

1779, May 14, Debtors none.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at NOTTINGHAM.

The felons court is more airy, the wall being now palifaded; and there is an entire separation of debtors and felons. There is a new room for the turnkey, and adjoining, a dark lodging-room for women.

1779, Sept. 19, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 5.

NOTTINGHAM TOWN GAOL.

1779, Sept. 19, Debtors 2. Felons &c. none.

No alteration, but a table of fees hung up.

7’own

Derbyshire.

Nottinghamshire.

15°

APPENDIX.

Nottinghamshire.

'To zva of Nottingham;

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of his Majesty’s Gaol for the Town of Nottingham-, of Prisoners confined for Debt therein, as settled by us — Justices of the Peace — on Thursday the Tenth Day of April, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Seventy-seven — as follows:

For the lodging and board of each prisoner, when he lodges and diets with the gaoler, per week, seven shillings. — —

For each prisoner when such prisoner hath a room and a bed of the gaoler and diets himself, by the week, two shillings. —

For each prisoner when he hath a room of the gaoler, and finds his own bed and diets, by the week, six pence. — —

For the discharge of each prisoner, thirteen shillings and four pence. For the turnkey for the fame, one shilling and four pence. —

5. D. 7 = o

2: o

0: 6

‘3 = 4

1: 4

The gaoler is to take notice, that if he takes more than the above sums he is liable to forfeit to the party aggriev’d for each offence the sum of fifty pounds, (exclusive of the penalties inflicted by former acts).

And the said Justices do order and direct, that the clerk of the peace for this town and the county thereof, do as soon as conveniently may be, put up a copy of this table in some conspicuous open place within the gaol of the said town, in order that the fame may be inspedted as occasions may require, and be preserved within the said gaol and resorted to by the said prisoners at all reasonable times in the day-time without paying any thing for the fame, after the original table (which is now ingrossed on parchment, and is intended to be filed amongst the records of this court) has been reviewed and confirmed, or moderated by the Judge of Assize at the next Assizes to be holden for this town.

. W. H. ASHURST.

Tho. Sands, Mayor. Rich. Butler, Aid. John Fellozvs, Aid.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE

Midland Circuit. NOTTINGHAMSHIRE, &c. 151

NOTTINGHAM TOWN BRIDEWELL. No alteration. Here is a mill for grinding horse-beans.

1779) Sept. 19, No prisoners.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SOUTHWELL.

No alteration. A court for the women might be made out of the keeper’s garden.

1779, Sept. 20, Prisoners 17.

NEWARK TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, Sept. 20, Prisoners none. Deserters 2.

BASFORD PRISON.

No alteration.

1779, Sept. 20, Prisoners 2.

LINCOLNSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, LINCOLN CASTLE. Lincolnshire.

No alteration. The act forpreserving the health of prisoners not hungup.

1779, May 6, Debtors 22. Felons 14.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

GAINSBOROUGH. No alteration. 1779, May 6, Pris. 5. Lunat. 3.

FOKINGHAM. No alteration. Prison out of repair. A lunatic has been confined here some years.

1779, May 5, Prisoners 2.

SPALDING. No alteration, but a pump in the court, which not being secure, the prisoners have no access to it. The surgeon’s

salary

15-

APPENDIX.

Lincolnshire.

Rutlandshire.

salary is £11. — A distrafted woman has been confined about three years. In the last nine years the keeper had 387 prisoners.

1779, March 29, Prisoners 13.

Oftob. 11, — 2.

STAMFORD TOWN GAOL.

No alteration, but the prison finished at the town hall.

1779, Sept. 21, Prisoners none.

BOSTON TOWN GAOL.

This is also the bridewell. Two damp offensive rooms about fourteen feet square, and over them two rooms for women, and two rooms adjoining for debtors. No court: no water. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. Salary, as gaoler £\o. as keeper ^5. Fees, is. 6d.

1779j 0<T 11, Debtors none. Felons &c. 1.

LINCOLN CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

1779, May 6, Debtor 1. Felons none.

RUTLANDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at OAKHAM.

The whole prison is thatched. There were no rooms proper for the separation of men and women, or of bridewell prisoners from felons, but lately a room is made in the barn for that purpose. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hungup. The surgeon now Mr. Berry. 1779, March 28, Debtors 5. Felons &c. 5. Deserters 3.

Sept. 21, — 3. — 1.

COUNTY

Midland Circuit. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at NORTHAMPTON.

1779, March 25, Debtors 14. Felons &c. 9.

Nov. 24, — 15. — 15.

The gaol clean, and the gaoler attentive and humane to his prisoners; debtors, felons, and petty offenders at work, spinning, making pegs for shoemakers, &c. Gaoler’s salary £30.

Two pence a day is allowed for meat, to each of the felons. The chapel is in a more convenient situation than formerly. The table of fees is now signed and hung up. That which the gaoler shewed me on my former visits was neither dated, signed, nor hung up -, which occasioned my laying in my former work, cc No table of fees.”

Northamptonshire, to wit.

At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace — holden at Northampton, in and for the said County on Thursday — the Sixteenth Day of January, in the Seventeenth Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George the Third — before the Reverend John Hill, Doctor of Laws; Ambrose IJled, Esq. Brook Bridges, and Charles Addington, Clerks; Just ices of our said Lord the King, &c.

It is ordered, by this Court, that the following Rates and Fees be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty’s Gaol for the said County; and no other.

For the lodging of every prisoner for debt, in his house, per week For the discharge of every such prisoner out of custody for debt Ditto to the turnkey , — —

For the copy of every warrant —

For signing a certificate, in order to obtain a supersedeas For registering a declaration —

For attending with every prisoner in order to give bail, or be otherwise a discharged for debt, within the town of Northampton —

u

£• s. D.

0: 2: 0

0: 13 4

0: 2: 0

0: I ,: 0

0: 2: 0

0: I: 0

■ 0: ■y: 0

*53

North a mt-

TON SHIRE,

And

*54

APPENDIX.

Northamptonshire.

And it is further ordered, that the above Table of Fees be said before the Judges, at the next afiizes to be holden for the said county, for their revisal and confirmation j and, if the fame shall be so confirmed, that a copy thereof be hung up in some conspicuous part of the prison, and another copy in the grand-jury gallery.

By the Court,

Morgan, Clerk of the Peace.

We, the Judges of Assize for the county of Northampton, have reviewed, and do hereby confirm, the above-written Table of Fees. Given under our hands, at the Assizes holden at Northampton, the fourth day of March, 1777.

S. S. SMYTHE. G. NARES.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

KETTERING. This prison is in the back-court of the keeper’s public house. A room for men eighteen feet and a half by fifteen and a half. Down three steps a lodging-room eight feet by five and a half, with an aperture in the door fifteen inches by eleven. Court nineteen feet and a half square. For women, a separate court, and a room about the fame size as the men’s day-room: clay floors: windows close glazed. No water: no fewer. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £12. Fees, 2s. 6d. Receives rent of the county £15: 10: o.

1779, Odl. 12, Prisoners 2.

OUNDLE. Several rooms in a ruinous house rented by the county. Keeper’s salary, £ 12. Fees, js. 6d. Notable.

l119i ^ePt’ prisoners.

0a. 12,5

NORTH-

Midland Circuit. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

NORTHAMPTON TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms for felons, and one for debtors. The Gentlemen of the Corporation have made a court for the debtors and felons, with sewers, &c. Felons allowance, two pence a day. The gaoler is a bailiff and sheriff’s officer: has no salary: pays rent £3. Fees, 13.R 4 d. No table.

1779, March 25, Debtor 1. Felons &c. none.

Nov. 24, — 1. Deserter 1.

PETERBOROUGH GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, Sept. 2i, Debtor 1.

PETERBOROUGH BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, Sept. 21, Prisoner 1.

BRACKLEY GAOL.

A room called the Dungeon, four feet square, under the stair-case of the town-hall. An oval aperture in the door eight inches by fix. The constable is gaoler. No court: no water.

1779, Oc5t. 13, No prisoners.

U 2

155

Northamptonshire.

OXFORD

i56

APPENDIX.

Berkshire.

OXFORD CIRCUIT.

BERKSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at READING.

No alteration. The common-fkle debtors pay one shilling and six pence, and the master-fide two shillings and six pence a week for lodging. No table of fees. The chapel is much too small. The act for preserving the health of prisoners is painted on a board in the debtors court.

1779, April 21, Debtors 9. Felons See. 9. Impressed Men 19.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

READING. No alteration. The prison is dirty and out of repair. The county pays rent to the corporation. Men and women together in the day-time. Only one prisoner spinning. The wheels and hemp-blocks are the keeper’s property. Allowance to petty offenders, two five-farthing loaves each, every Sunday, and one every week-day. Clauses of the act against: spirituous liquors hung up: and there were painted on a board, some Orders proper to be observed in the bridewell, approved by J. P. Andrews and Ferd. Collins, Justices, at the Quarter Sessions, April 28, 1778,

1779, April 41, Prisoners 7.

READING TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, April 41, No prisoners.

ABINGDON

Oxford Circuit.

BERKSHIRE.

*57

Berkshire.

ABINGDON BRIDEWELL.

No alteration, but somewhat cleaner, as lately white-washed.

1779, April 22, Prisoners 3.

ABINGDON TOWN GAOL.

Several rooms over a gateway. The first floor is for debtors. The rooms for felons &c. are above. No court: no water. Allowance to felons, three pence a day. Keeper, one of the sergeants at mace: no salary. Fees, Debtors 4d. Felons 6s. 8d. No table: licence for beer.

1779, April 22, Debtor 1. Felons &c. o.

WINDSOR CASTLE PRISON.

No alteration. The preamble in the table of fees (for the Honour and Castle of Windjor') recites, “ that complaint having been made to me <c offome Joules and irregularities committed in demanding and receiving fees,-the table being defaced, so that the words and

tc figures are hardly legible,” — This table was made, the first: year of George II. May 10th, 1728. subscribed, CarUJle. There seems the fame ground of complaint with respect to the present table being defaced. As the fees are lower here than in mod other prisons, the table should be preserved to prevent impositions.

1779, March 10, Prisoner 1.

WINDSOR TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, March 10, Prisoner 1.

WALLINGFORD TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, April 22, Prisoner 1.

061. 20, — o.

COUNTY

I5S

APPENDIX.

Oxford?

SHIRE.

OXFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, OXFORD CASTLE.

Chaplain now Rev. Mr. Cetton.

It is very probable, that the rooms in this castle are the fame that the prisoners occupied, at the time of the Black AJftze. The wards are dole and offensive, so that if crowded, I should not greatly wonder to hear of another fatal qffize at Oxford.

1779, Feb. 25, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 15.

July 29, — 13. — 4.

I

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

TIIAME. No alteration in the house, but in February the prisoners were carding and spinning. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. From midsummer 1778 to midsummer 1779, twenty-six persons were committed to this prison.

1779, Feb. 25, Prisoners 4.

Oft. 20, — o.

WITNEY. No alteration in the house. The prisoners were at work: the keeper now is a manufacturer, and employs them all. He pays them for their work, two pence a pound for the chain, and three halfpence for the foot, so that each earns about three pence a day.

COUNTY

1779, February 26, Prisoners 7.

Oxford Circuit. WORCESTERSHIRE.

*59

COUNTY GAOL, WORCESTER CASTLE.

The castle-yard is raised and gravelled. A workman for a guinea a year keeps the hand-ventilator always in repair. A larger and more convenient room is now fitted up for a chapel. I found this prison very clean, especially the debtors’ apartments. The act for preserving the health of prisoners is written on pcper, and hung up.

1779, May 18, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 8.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WORCESTER.

Here I found a new keeper: the prison very clean: and a window in the men’s night-room up stairs. The prisoners were employed, beating hemp.

1779, May 18, Prisoners 6.

WORCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration: the keeper does not now pay the window-tax. In rdpeft to cleanliness, this is a contrail to the two prisons immediately preceding.

1779, May i8. Debtors 6. Felons &C.4. ImprefiedMen 3. Deserters 2.

KIDDERMINSTER TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms called dungeons about ten feet by eight, down fix steps, under the market-house. No court: no water: no fewer: Debtors

from the Court of Requests are cleared in forty days. The cryer is keeper, has a shilling a month for attendance, and a billing for straw.

1779, August 30,' No prisoners.

Worcestershire.

STAFFORD-

APPENDIX.

STAFFORDSHIRE.: COUNTY GAOL at STAFFORD.

Stafford-

SHIRE*

No alteration. The debtors court and free-ward are spacious; in the latter is a hand-ventilator for the felons dungeon, which be-

I

ing out of repair, has not been used for some years. Were the county to allow the small sum of a guinea a year, it might always be kept in order, as is done in Worcester castle. An alarm-bell in this crowded gaol would be very proper.

Mr. Hughes {now the surgeon) is apothecary to the county infirmary, which is near the gaol. He receives £% of the £20 allowed by the county, and the remaining jT 12 is paid to the infirmary for drugs.

1779, May 15, Debtors 40. Felons See. 14. Imprefied Men 11.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

STAFFORD. No alteration: the prison clean, and the prisoners employed in spinningj but the wheels do not belong to the county.

1779, May 15, Prisoners 9.

WOLVERHAMPTON. No alteration. 1779, Aug. 23, Prisoners 2.

LITCHFIELD. To the two close cells are added two new ones, and two rooms for debtors j a court is enclosed, in which is an ostensive fewer.

1779, Nov. 26, Debtors 3. Felons See. 1.

COUNTY

Oxford Circuit.

SHROPSHIRE.

161

COUNTY GAOL at SHREWSBURY. Shrop-

SHIRE.

1779, May 15, Debtors 21. Felons &c. 18. Imp. Man 1. Def. 1.

Aug. 24, — 23. — 10. — o. — 1.

No alteration. Here are three large lamps in the court supplied at the county’s expense. The act for preserving the health-of prisoners, clauses againstspirituous liquors, the prohibition of garnilb, and a new-table of fees, were all hung up, and very conspicuous. The day-room for felons is fifteen feet and a half by five and a half: men and women together. Here were several convicts, one of whom had been ordered to the Thames summer assize, 1777.

Shropshire. A Table of the Rates and Fees to be taken by the Gaoler for the County of Salop, settled — by the Justices of the Peace for the said County — the 14th day of July 1778.

The Chamber Rent.

}°: ler’s 1 -1°:

To the gaoler for lodging and his furniture on the master’s side, each person having a bed to himself — per week —

But if two lodge in the fame bed on their own election, then each to pay — — — per week —

To the gaoler for lodging of each person in the garrets on the gaoler’: bed and furniture — — per week

Note. No person shall be moved out of a room where he is placed by the gaoler without his own consent, or the consent of two justices of the peace for the said county, or neglect of paying chamber rent. That no person pay any rent or money whatsoever for lodging on the •) common side, unless he used the gaoler’s bed and furniture, in >0 which case he is to pay — per week

£•

5. D. 2: o

1: 6 1: o

1

o

Fees for the Gaoler for Debtors.

To the gaoler for the commitment of each debtor — — o:

To the gaoler for the discharge of each debtor

X

o:

5: o 3 o To

i6z

APPENDIX.

S. D.

Shropshire.

£•

To the gaoler for entering in his books every charge upon such debtor o: For the copy of every sheriff’s warrant (if demanded) — o:

But the debtors to have recourse to fee the book of commitment (if demanded) gratis.

To the gaoler for every debtor if detained upon two or more actions,

fifteen /hillings, including the five /hillings upon commitment ? o: and no more — — — — 3

For receiving and entering every declaration against debtors in custody o: For every certificate in order for a supersedeas, or in order to sue out a rule of court ——

IS

out ■)

-10:

o:

o

o

Fees for the Gaoler for Felons or other Crimes.

To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner found guilty of i

felony — — If at Assizes — j° !3 4

To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner found guilty of i felony — — If at Sessions — J

To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner committed for a % certain time, or fined and committed until paid, or bailed out of Co gaol, or superfeded by a justice or justices of the peace — j But if continued in gaol three months or upwards — o

For the copy of every commitment (if desired) — o

For every certificate of commitment, in order to sue out a habeas corpus o

The following Articles to be allowed by the County.

To the gaoler for the discharge of every person charged with felony, or other crime, or as an accessary thereto, rgainst whom no bill I of indictment /hall be found by the grand jury, or who on his or j>°: *3 4 her trial /hall be acquitted, or who shall be discharged by pro- I clamation for want of prosecution — If at Assizes — J

If at Sessions — o: q: o

9

1

2

O

o

6

Cha!. Baldwyn, IF. T. Davenport, JFm. Smith, Justices.

August 13th 1778. Allowed and confirmed the above Table of Fees, by us

j. skynner, c. nares, Judges of Assize.

COUNTY

Oxford Circuit. SHROPSHIRE, Sec.

163

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHREWSBURY.

Here is a new work-room. Half a Cwf. of coals is allowed weekly from Michaelmas to the Lent assize.

1779, May 15, Prisoners 6.

Aug. 24, — 8.

SHREWSBURY TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL,

At the Castle-gate, confiils of sundry rooms over the gateway. Allowance to criminals, three halfpence a day. Fees, Debtors 5s. 6d. Criminals gs. 6d. no table. Gaoler’s salary, £5.

1779, May 15, No prisoners.

Aug. 24, Debtor 1.

LUDLOW TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 16, Prisoners none. Deserter 1.

July 27, — 2.

HEREFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HEREFORD.

.No alteration, but the chapel boarded, and now dry. Here I found several convicts, two of whom had been ordered to the "Thames at summer assize, 1777.

1779, May 17, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 9. Impressed Men 6.

X 2 COUNTY

Shropshire.

Herefordshire.

APPENDIX.

164.

Herefordshire.

Monmouthshire.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at HEREFORD.

1779, May 17. The prisoners were in the county gaol, and they were repairing this prison, for the cross-wall had fallen in. But the spot on which it is built is so confined, that it cannot be convenient. Only two rooms are designed for work and lodging for both sexes; and as there is no court, the sewers mull make these rooms very unhealthy. It might have been better if the Gentlemen had thought of building the bridewell in one of the two very spacious gardens adjoining to the county gaol, and occupied by the gaoler; then, if they had no chapel, the prisoners (as those in Shrewsbury bridewell) might have the privilege of public worship in the county gaol.

HEREFORD CITY GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 17, Debtors 4. Felons See. none.

MONMOUTHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at MONMOUTH.

No alteration. Ten of the twelve felons &c. were convicts, four of them at the summer assize in 1775.

1779, June 2> Debtors 6. Felons &c. 12.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at USK.

The rooms that are now building will be some small improvement of this prison. The prisoners have some allowance. The spinning-

wheels.

Oxford Circuit. MONMOUTHSHIRE, &c.

wheels, &c. are not provided by the county. The keeper has all the profit of the work.

177June Prisoners 7.

MONMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

A room on the first floor for debtors, and another over it for felons. No court: no water. Allowance to felons, two pence a day. Gaoler’s salary, ^4.

1779, June a, No prisoners.

GLOUCESTERSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, GLOUCESTER CASTLE.

No alteration. Eight prisoners died about Christmas 1778, of the small pox. No proper reparation of the sexes, or of the bridewell prisoners from the rest. From the magistrates inattention to this important point, there is the most licentious intercourse; and all the endeavours of the chaplain to promote reformation, mull necessarily be defeated, where the most abandoned are daily encouraging the others in vice. Five or fix children have lately been born in this gaol.

Eleven of the twenty-four felons were fines without any allowance. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

1779, June 1, Debtors 16. Felons &c. 24.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

LAW FORD’s GATE, BRISTOL.

No alteration.

1779, Feb. 8, Prisoners 4.

Sept. 1, — 5.

165

Monmouthshire.

GLOUCESTERSHIRE.

BERKLEY.

166

APPENDIX.

Gloucestershire.

Hampshire.

BERKLEY. No alteration. The keeper pays out of b.s falaiy of £20, £6 a year to the poor of the parish for ground-rent.

1779, June 9, No prisoners.

CIRENCESTER. No alteration. 1779, June 9, Prisoners 6.

WINCHCOMB. No alteration. The prison quite ruinous.

The old keeper is dead, and his nephew (who is now keeper) said, that “ he should be obliged to put irons on all the prisoners to secure them.”

1779, May 19, Prisoners none.

St. BRIAVELL’s GAOL for debtors.

No alteration.

T779> Junc No prisoners.

GLOUCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL. No alteration, but white-washed once a year. The city bridewell at the East-gate is now taken down.

1779, June 1, Debtor 1. Felon See. 1.

WESTERN CIRCUIT.

HAMPSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at WINCHESTER.

The beds are all on crib bedsteads. The gaol was clean. The act for preserving the health of prisoners was painted on a board, and hung in the court, by order of the justices.

The chapel is very low and inconvenient.

1779, March 1, Debtors 12. Felons 8rc. 26.

THE

Western Circuit.

HAMPSHIRE.

167

THE CHEYNEY COURT.

No alteration.

17/9j March 1, No prisoners.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

WINCHESTER. No alteration. There is only one day-room for men and women. There were four young women among the prisoners.

1779, March 1, Prisoners 11.

GOSPORT. No alteration. 1779, March 6, Prisoners 9.

ODIAM. No alteration. 1779, March 10, Prisoners 5.

NEWPORT in the Isle of Wight. The bridewell for twenty-eight parishes, and the town gaol, are now both in the old work-house, four rooms being appropriated to that purpose. There are two keepers, one for the county bridewell, whose salary is ^19: 5: o. the other for the gaol, whose salary is £3. — The poor are removed to a house of industry (w'hich I visited); it was lately erected for the twenty-nine parishes, or whole island.

1779, March 5, No prisoners.

SOUTHAMPTON.

THE BAR GATE. Sheriff’s Ward. Some alteration in the two rooms: but the fewer was offensive.

1779, March 3, Debtors 3.

THE GAOL. No alteration. 17793 March 3, 1 Prisoner.

BRIDEWELL. No alteration. 17793 March 3, 1 Prisoner.

PORTSMOUTH

Hampshire.

i6S

APPENDIX.

Hampshire.

Wiltshire.

PORTSMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

The alteration, debtors and felons separated.

1779, March 6, Debtors 6. Felon &c. 1.

WILTSHIRE.

SALISBURY. The COUNTY GAOL*

No alteration in the gaol or bridewell.

Surgeon, Mr. Curtoys. Salary, £21.

1779, March 1, Debtors 17. Felons &c. 15.

CITY GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, Feb. 28, Debtor 1. Felon &c. 1.

Other COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

DEVIZES. The weight of bread allowance, at this time, was one pound and a half. A window is now made in the keeper’s kitchen, which overlooks the court. The prisoners are without employment; the fbutters of the work-room nailed up. No fees are demanded of the prisoners j the magistrates of the county pay the gaoler seven shillings and eight pence for each. Here were three distratted persons, one man and two women.

1779, Feb. 27, Debtor 1. Petty Offenders 14. Lunatics 3.

MARLBOROUGH. No alteration. The keeper’s salary, which was raised from £20 to £50, is to supply the prisoners with bread,

• When his Majesty parted through this city in 1778, he was pleased to leave £200 for the discharge of debtors confined for sums less than £$o; by which benefaction eleven prisoners were set at liberty.

as

Western Circuit. DORSETSHIRE, &c.

169

as the county pays for the fees, seven {hillings and eight pence Wiltshire. at the discharge of every prisoner. I found no prisoners at work.

One of them said, with evident concern, that “ he had been there thirty weeks, and had not earned one half-penny.”

1779, Feb. 27, Prisoners 4.

DORSETSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at DORCHESTER. Dorset-

SHIRE.

No alteration, but the wards cleaner than in my former viflts.

Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

1779, Feb. 6, Debtors 14. Felons &c. 6.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHERBORN.

No alteration.

1779, Feb. 6, Prisoners 2.

DEVONSHIRE.

HIGH GAOL AT EXETER. Devon-

SHIRE.

I found the men together, encouraging and confirming one another in wickedness j and the women are obliged to associate with them in the day-time. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

No alteration in this crowded and offensive gaol; yet, as an elegant {hire-hall is lately finished, may it not be hoped that the Gentlemen will turn their thoughts to the gaol

17793 Jan. 31, Felons &c. 33.

Y

SHERIFF’S

170

APPENDIX.

Devonshire.

Cornwall.

SHERIFF’s WARD, EXETER.

No alteration. One debtor, on attachment from the Court of Chancery, has continued here from May 1758, who would not take the benefit of the insolvent acts.

1779, Jan. 31, Debtors 36.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at EXETER.

Here are some improvements for the separation of men and women: but all were unemployed, and their countenances bespoke misery and neglect. The surgeon and two or three prisoners have died of the gaol fever since my visit in 1775.

1779, Feb. 5, Prisoners 27.

EXETER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration. One woman sick, having been confined three years in the close ward on the felons side.

17 7 9, Jan. 31, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 2.

PLYMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, Feb. 3, Debtor 1. Felons none.

CORNWALL.

COUNTY GAOL at LAUNCESTON.

Here is a new gaol for men felons, consisting of four cells, a day-room, and a court. Over the rooms are the gaoler’s apartments. Adjoining is the old gaol, which is to be repaired for women felons, as £500, of the king’s bounty of £2500, is appropriated to that purpose.

1779, Feb. 4/ Felons 4.

COUNTY

Western Circuit.

CORNWALL, &c.

171

COUNTY BRIDEWELL AT BODMIN. Cornwall.

No alteration.

1779, Feb. 4, Prisoners 13.

SHERIFF’S WARD at BODMIN.

This prison will soon be discontinued. 1779, Feb. 4, Debtors 13.

A very convenient and spacious county gaol and house of correction, with separate and solitary rooms of confinement for each prisoner, has lately been erected. It is built on an eminence, where is a constant current of water. There is a good house for the keeper, a chapel, infirmary, &c. By this spirited exertion, the Gentlemen of this County have erected a monument of their humanity, and attention to the health and morals of prisoners.*

SOMERSETSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL AT IVELCHESTER. Somerset-

SHIRE.

No alteration. ’Thomas Hayes, who was committed by order of the Ecclesiastical Court, was released by a clause inserted in the insolvent act.

The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

1779, Feb. 7, Debtors 33. Felons &c. 15.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

TAUNTON. No alteration. All the prisoners were in irons.

1779, Sept, a, Prisoners 10.

* I beg leave here to pay my acknowledgments to John Call, Esq. a worthy magistrate of this county, who has taken unwearied pains in this bu/inefs, for his present of a very elegant drawing and plan of this prison.

SHEPTON-

APPENDIX.

Somersetshire.

Yorkshire.

SHEPTON-MALLET. No alteration, but white-washed twice a year.

1779, Feb. 7, Prisoners 19.

BRISTOL CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration. The gaoler still attentive with respect to cleanliness. 1779, Feb. 8, Debtors 44. Felons &c. 21.

Sent. 1, — 47. — 9.

BRISTOL CITY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. The prison dirty: still no employment.

1779, Feb. 8, Prisoners 8.

BATH CITY GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, Feb. io. Debtors 10. Offenders 2.

BRIDGEWATER TOWN GAOL.

.No alteration.

1779, Sept. 2, No prisoners.

NORTHERN CIRCUIT. YORKSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, YORK CASTLE.

No alteration: but as the grand jury presented the gaol, and determined, that a separation of felons, and also rooms for the sick were necessary; the ground was marked out for an additional building, opposite to the new shire-hall.

1779, May 7, Debtors 76. Felons &c. 14.

June 28, — 73. — 16.

COUNTY

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE.

173

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

WEST-RIDING, WAKEFIELD.

No alteration, but the infirmary finished, consisting of two good rooms arched with brick, twenty-one feet and a half by seventeen. 1779, May 13, Prisoners 20. Impressed Men 4.

NORTH-RIDING, TRIRSK.

No alteration.

J779, June Prisoners 2, and 1 Lunatic.

EAST-RIDING, BEVERLY.

No alteration.

1779, May 7, Prisoner 1.

BEVERLY TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 7, Debtors 2. Criminals none.

HALL-GARTII, for debtors.

No alteration.

1779, May 7, Prisoner 1.

YORK CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

Water is now laid into this prison. There is a new room for prisoners committed on suspicion of felony, thirty-one feet by fourteen, with opposite and lofty windows, and a chimney.

The act for preserving the health cf prisoners, painted on a board, is hung up in the debtors hall. Gaoler’s salary now £10.

1779, May 7, Debtors 12. Felons 2.

Yorkshire.

YORK

174 APPENDIX.

Yorkshire. YORK CITY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. Some prisoners were employed in making cement for the bricklayers.

1779, May 8, Prisoners 4.

June 28, — 8.

St. PETER’S GAOL;

No alteration, only lately white-washed.

1779, May 8, Debtors 2. Felon &c. 1.

June 28, — 5. — 1.

RICHMOND GAOL.

No alteration.

177 9j May 8, Debtors 6. Petty Offender 1.

RIPPON LIBERTY GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 8, Debtors 3.

R I

A O L.

P P O N G No alteration.

1779, May 8, Debtor 1. Petty Offender 1.

KNARESBOROUGH PRISON,

For Debtors in the Honour or Forest of Knarejboroitgb.

The larged room is now boarded, has a chimney, and the window glazed.

1779, May 8, No prisoners.

KNARESBOROUGH PRISON, for Town Debtors.

No alteration.

1779, May 8, No prisoners.

KNARES-

Northern Circuit. Y ORKSHIRE.

KNARESBOROUGH TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 8, No prisoners.

DONCASTER TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, June 27, No prisoners.

BRADFORD PRISON,

For Debtors from the Court of Requests, for Halifax, Bradford, See. Sec.

A new prison, confiding of four rooms, and a work-room. Court not lecure: no water. Deputy keeper pays rent £2: 5: o a year for his house to the gaoler; who pays rent to the clerk of the court, by whom he is appointed. Prisoners are discharged at the end of three calendar months. Fees, $s. See the AEt*

1779, May 13, Prisoners 12.

LEEDS TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 13, No prisoners.

KINGSTON upon HULL TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration, but the act for preserving the health of prisoners painted on a board is hung up.

1779, May 7, Debtors 8. Felon 1.

KINGSTON upon HULL BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, May 7, Prisoners 11. Lunatics 2; one of them is the raving lunatic whom I found at all my former visits.

*75

Yorkshire.

* 17th Geo. III. Cap. XV.

SHEFFIELD

I~6

APPENDIX.

Yorkshire.

Durham.

SHEFFIELD PRISON, m debtors.

No alteration.

1779, May 14, Prisoners 8.

SHEFFIELD TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 14, No prisoners.

BATLEY PRISON, ros debtors.

No alteration, but a new table of fees dated 26th of July 1776, similar to the former.

1779, May 13, Prisoners 18.

HALIFAX PRISON, for debtors.

No alteration.

1779, May 13, Prisoners 5.

DURHAM.

COUNTY GAOL at DURHAM.

No alteration. Five boys between thirteen and fifteen years of age were confined with the most profligate and abandoned. — The bishop has humanely filed bills in Chancery for the recovery of the legacies of bishop Crezue and b\9ciop JVood.

1779, June 29, Debtors 14. Felons &c. 22. Deserter 1.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at DURHAM.

The house was clean; the prisoners were at work, and their looks bespoke the attention of a good keeper, who nozv resides in the prison. His faJiry, £30 a year, and ten guineas from the rents of the adjoining houses.

1779, June 29, Prisoners 9, and 3 Lunatics.

NEWCASTLE

Northern Circuit. NEWCASTLE upon TYNE.

*77

NEWCASTLE TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

The gaoler has licence for beer and wine. The act for preserving the health of prisoners painted on a board is hung up both on the debtors and felons side. — A palifaded wall is erected at a little distance from the felons window, to prevent files, &c. being conveyed to them.

1779, June 30, Debtors 13. Felons &c. 4.

A BRIDEWELL at NEWCASTLE.

A new building is now added, consisting of fix rooms: three of them on the ground floor, seventeen feet by twelve, and arched with brick. The walls of the court not being secure, no access to it for prisoners. Allowance, two pence a day and firing. Keeper, a sergeant at mace: has no salary but the profit of the prisoners work. — The water is lately brought near the prison. Where prisoners are always locked up, there should be water and a fink in each apartment, as I have seen in foreign houses of correction.

1779, June 30, Prisoners 7.

A small GAOL at NEWCASTLE, The Tower of the Clo/e.

No alteration.

1779, June 30, Prisoner x.

NORTHUMBERLAND.

COUNTY GAOL at MORPETH.

No alteration; but the act for preserving the health of prisoners, painted on a board, was hung up in the-'debtors hall or chapel.

1779, July i. Debtors 10. Felons &c. 6.

Z COUNTY

NEWCASTLE.

Northumberland.

178 APPENDIX.

NORTHUMBERLAND. COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MORPETH. No alteration. 1779, July i> Prisoners 3.

Berwick. BERWICK upon TWEED. No alteration. 1779, July 1, Debtors 2. Felons &c. none. Impressed Men 8.

Cumber- land, CUMBERLAND. COUNTY GAOL at CARLISLE. Here are some improvements. The felons have now a separate court. Two rooms over the felons wards, which have been used js tap-rooms, seem to be intended for the women’s ward: but I found that three men and four women lodged in cue of these rooms. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. 1779, May 10, Debtors 32. Felons &c. 21. French prisoners 12. CARLISLE CITY GAOL. No alteration. 1779, May 10, Debtors 2 Men, 1 Woman. COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COCKERMOUTH. No alteration. The insecurity of this bridewell is the reason (I suppose) that many for small offences are sent to the county gaol. 1779, May 10, No prisoners.

COUNTY

Northern Circuit.

WESTMORLAND.

179

COUNTY GAOL at APPLEBY.

No alteration. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

1779, May 9, Debtors 8. Felons 2.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

APPLEBY. No alteration. 1779* May 9, No prisoners. KENDAL. No alteration. 1779, May 11, No prisoners.

KENDAL TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 11, No prisoners.

LANCASHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, LANCASTER CASTLE.

I had the pleasure to find fix cells made in the old Jlable, ten feet two inches by six feet eight inches, each having an aperture about two feet by one and a half: and two good rooms fitted up for an infirmary in one of the towers. The debtors rooms were white-washed, and casements put in their windows: the yard lowered and paved, which being on a descent, may easily be kept clean. The act for preserving the health of prisoners, and the clauses against spirituous liquors hung up very conspicuously. The surgeon’s salary is ,fio: 10: o.

1779, May 11, Debtors 72. Felons &c. 11. ImprefTed Men 17.

Z 2

WESTMORLAND.

Lancashire.

COUNTY

i8o

APPENDIX.

Lancashire.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

PRESTON. No alterations but the prison cleaner, and the prisoners spinning worded. There is a new keeper, who is obliged to pay salary to his predecessor.

1779, May 12, Prisoners 17. Impressed Men 5.

To this prison, in 1778, there were committed one hundred and twelve prisoners, viz.

Felony 14, Bastardy 15, Misdemeans. 46, Vagrants 15, Deserts. 18, Debt5. 4.

MANCHESTER. No alteration; but the act for preserving the health of prisoners, and the clauses against spirituous liquors hung up. The employment of the prisoners is spinning candle-wick at three halfpence a pound, the keeper being a chandler. In the front of the prison is a done with an aperture into a box, having this infeription; “ Pray remember the poor prisoners. “ Sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. Matt. xxv. 43.” 1779, May 12, Prisoners ij. ImprelTed Men 6.

LIVERPOOL* BOROUGH GAOL.

This gaol was much cleaner than at my former visits: the court paved; the act for preserving the health of prisoners hung up; but the unhealthy dungeons dill in use. The surgeon, Mr. Shertcliffe, whose salary is £\o, informed me, that many more had the gaol fever in 1775, than I mentioned in my publication. The gaoler now is Mr. Thomas Lyon: his salary, £\o.

1779, Nov. 30, Debtors 25. Deserters 2. Impressed Men 2.

* The Gentlemen of this Corporation will please to accept my grateful acknowledgments for the honour done me in presenting me with the freedom of the town.

LIVER-

Northern Circuit.

LANCASHIRE.

LIVERPOOL BRIDEWELL.

i

This prison was built in 1776. The men and women have separate rooms, courts, &c. The women have fix rooms below, and the fame number above: the men have four rooms below, and four above. These are twelve feet by ten; are furnished with bedsteads; but are too clofc, having no window, only an aperture in the door about nine inches square, and another near the ceiling. They have a large work-room, in which was only one boy. Near this room in the men’s court is a pump, to which the women are tied every week and receive discipline. In this court is also a bath, with a new and singular contrivance. At one end of it is a standard for a long pole, at the extremity of which is fattened a chair. In this all the females (not the males) at their entrance, after a few questions, are placed, with a flannel Shift on, and undergo a thorough ducking, thrice repeated — an use of a bath which I dare say the legislature never thought of, when in their late act they ordered baths with a view to cleanliness and preserving the health of prisoners; not for the exercise of a wanton and dangerous kind of severity. The women were employed in picking oakum. Allowance, two pennyworth of bread a day. Keeper’s salary, £30. Matron, £10.

1779, Nov. 30, Prisoners 8. WARRINGTON TOWN BRIDEWELL.

*8r

LANCASHIRE.

No alteration, but the aperture or window closed up. 1779, Dec. 30, No prisoners.

CHESTER

APPENDIX.

j 82

CHESTER CIRCUIT.

CHESHIRE.

Cheshire. COUNTY GAOL, CHESTER CASTLE.

The county has built two good rooms for the gaoler, and fitted up one room for a chapel. Chaplain now Rev. Mr. IVillan. Salary, ^30. Surgeon, Mr. Williamson. Salary, none: he makes a bill.

1779, Aug. 27, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 4.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MIDDLEWICH.

A chaplain is appointed, the Rev. Mr. Leigh. Salary, £10. Duty, three times a week. — The prisoners were all without employment.

1779, Aug. 28, Prisoners 5.

CHESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

I found the men felons night-room (very injudicioufiy, not to say cruelly) funk several feet.* To prevent the prisoners from being suffocated, for want of air, two leaden pipes of about an inch diameter, are laid in from the gateway.

1779, Aug. 27, Debtors 7. Felons &c. 5.

CHESTER CITY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, Aug. 27, Prisoner 1.

* There seems to have been the fame neglect here of a clause in a late aft, that is noted in p. 139; which could scarcely have happened, had the act been hung up as therein directed.

NANTWICH

Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE.

NANTWICH PRISON, for debtors.

This prison for the Manor or Barony of Wich-Malbank, otherwise Nantwich, is the property of the Earl of Cholfhondeley. It consists of two or three rooms in the keeper’s public house.

1779, Aug. 28, Prisoners a.

As the table of fees is of a late date, and so comprehensive, I here give the copy.

A Table of Fees, to be taken by Sheriffs, Under-sheriffs, Bailiffs, or other Officers within the County of Chester, made, settled and allowed, at the General Quarter Sessions — held at the Castle of Chester, in and for the said County, the Fifteenth Day of April, 1777, and in the 17th — George III. before Sir Thomas Broughton, Baronet, George Heron, John Townshend, Charles Mainwaring, Samuel Barrow, Samuel Finney, and Henry OffleyTPYight, Esquires; Samuel Alderjey, Robert Hill, and John Baldwin, Clerks, Tuftices —

- t

in pursuance of an Act made in the 32d year of George II.

To the Bailiff for every Arrest, as under.

For an arrest on an attachment for contempt _ £• 0: 6'. D. 10: 0

For a debt of io/. and under 201. — — 0: 10: 1 0

For a debt of 20/. and under 30/. . — — 0; 15: 0

For a debt of 30/. and under 501. — — 1: I: : O

For a debt of 50/. and under 80/. — — 1: 5: 0

For a debt of So/, and under 100/. — — 1: 11:6

For a debt of 100/. and under 200/. — — 2: 2: 0

For a debt of 200/. and under 500/. — — 2: 12: 6

For a debt of 500/. and under 1000/. — — 3 3 0

For a debt of 1000/. and upwards — — 5; 5: 0

Travelling charges to make such arrest, in case (except on an attachment for contempt) each the arrest be mile made 1°: 0: 6

’83

Cheshire.

For

184

APPENDIX.

Cheshire. For Attendance on Arrest to be taken as follows (except on an Attachment for Contempt.)

Where the debt does not exceed 100/. for each day 2 s. and each Dight 2 s.

Where the debt does exceed 100/. and is not 200I. for each day 3/. and each night 3/.

Where the debt does exceed 200/. for each day 4s. and each night 4s.

Nothing to be taken for attendance unless the defendant does not offer good bail in fix hours, or is not discharged in that time.

For executing every writ of Ca: fa: Fi: jfa: Levari facias., and writ of possession, or other execution, besides sheriff’s poundage

Travelling charges as in case of arrest.

For conducing every prisoner to gaol, or so far as such prisoner shall 7 be conduced, in his way to gaol, each mile —

£■ S. D.

S°:

House expences whilst in custody before carrying to gaol (but not on the road) to be allowed after the rate of 2 s. 6d. for every twenty-four hours, and so in proportion for a lei's time, all expences of prisoners and bailiffs included.

For making every distress for rent, under 20/. — — — o: 5:0

For 20/. and under 100/. - — — o: 6: S

For above 100/. — - — — — — o: 10: 6

For attending goods under distress, or taken into execution, for every-j

twenty-four hours, ’until the sale is finished, one person zs. 6ct- >0: 4:0

Travelling charges to make such distress, and house expences, as in case of arrest. No further or other allowance to be taken on account of bailiffs followers, but every bailiff to pay his own followers out of the above fees.

And it is ordered by the said Court, that this Table of Fees be printed, and immediately dispersed throughout the said County, by the Clerk of the Peace thereof. And to the end that nosheriff, under-iheriff, bailiff, or other officer or minister, may plead ignorance of the law, they may hereby take notice, that none of them are to take any other or greater fee or reward than what is above set forth and allowed, upon the pains contained in the said Afl.

By the Court,

COUNTY

Chester Circuit. FLINTSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at FLINT.

No alteration, only the allowance reduced to a pound of bread

a day each. This was occasioned by the prisoners not being satisfied

with the former kind allowance of i s. 6d. in bread, and 6d. in money.

This gaol is also a bridewell.

1779, Aug. 27, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 3.

RULES to be observed within the Gaol of Flint.

1. All prisoners to behave — respectfully to keeper — Whoever — strike or afiault any — to be punished by a justice at discretion.

2. No cursing or swearing — No gaming in the hall nor in private.

3. Prisoners to retire to their respective rooms — from Lady-day to Michaelmas at nine — from Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight — To be let out in the morning — from Lady-day to Michaelmas at fix — Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight.

4. Friends or relations — to bring necessaries, — being — searched for instruments if required — -Not to stay long- — without leave, except in — sickness — nor after the hours of locking up.

5. The prisoners for felony and misdemeanors shall keep in the upper ward — except leave to the contrary, and then not to intermix with the debtors.

6. No prisoner to remove — -the keeper’s beds, &c. — nor his own bed — without gaoler’s consent.

7- Prisoners may bring their own beds, and take them away. If they choose the keeper’s bed — pay two shillings at the end of every week. Upon non-payment the gaoler may take the bed, and put the prisoner to lie in any other room as is usual for prifopers who cannot bring beds or pay chamber rent.

A a

8. That

APPENDIX.

186

Flintshire.

Denbighshire.

8. That the public rooms — be kept and made clean daily — by the prisoners.

9. That no prisoners shall have any offensive weapons — or instru-ments — that may conduce to their ctcape.

At the General Quarter Sessions held at Holywell — 12th July — 33d George II. 1759.

We whose Names are hereunto subscribed his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace affepobjed in open Sessions aforesaid approve of the above Rules to be observed within the Gaol of Flint.

Roger Moftyn, John Glynne, David Pennant,

Thomas Hughes, Thomas Thomas.

William Wynne, Clerk of the Peace.

Another COUNTY BRIDEWELL at HANMER.

Two rooms in a ruinous thatched home. No court: no water: no employment. Fees, 3 s. 6d. No table. Clauses of a<Tt against: spirkuous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £10out of which he pays rent for the house.

1779, Aug. 29, No prisoners.

DENBIGHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at RUTHIN.

' No alteration, but the glass taken from the windows of the cells, because the prisoners complained that they were too close and offensive. The county has furnished each of the debtors rooms with an iron bedstead, two chairs, a table, and a fender.

1779, Aug. 26, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 2.

COUNTY

Chester Circuit.

DENBIGHSHIRE, &c.

187

COUNTY BRI DEWELLS.

WREXHAM. No alteration. 1779, July 16, Prisoners 2.

DENBIGH. A ruinous house. No court: no water: no fewer. — And under the Town-hall the Black Chamber, twenty-four feet by ten, -is tiled as a prison. — Keeper’s falar'y, £6 out of which he pays to the parish £3 rent for the house.

1779, Aug. 26, No prisoners: one distratted man: two -paupers.

MO'jNTT gomery sh I r e.

• ' CO'UNTY GAOL at MONTGOMERY.

A large brewhouse is built for the gaoler. There might be a room over it for a chapel, much more convenient than that,now used.

1779, May 16, Debtors 4. Felons &c. 3. Impressed Man 1.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MONTGOMERY.

No alteration. Keeper’s salary, £13: 13: 4. No fees. Ncf allowance.' No materials-for work. . s

1779, May 16, Prisoner 1.

NORTH WALES- CIRCUIT.

ANGLESEY.

COUNTY GAOL at, BEAUMARIS.

No alteration.

1779, July 24, Debtors 4. Felon &c. 1.

Denbich-

SHIRE.

Montgomeryshire.

Anglesey.

18 8

APPENDIX.

Carnarvonshire.

Merionethshire

CARNARVONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at CARNARVON.

This gaol, which is also the bridewell, in a ruinous condition. 1779, July 24, Debtors 5. Felon &c. 1.

MERIONETHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at DOLGELLY.

Allowance now 2s- a week for each prisoner, paid to the gaoler. A chaplain and surgeon are appointed: and the windows have casements.

1779, Aug. 25, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 2.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

DOLGELLY. Two rooms under the town-hall. No court: no water: no employment. Keeper, the county gaoler. Salary, £6.

1779, Aug. 25, No prisoners.

BALA. Two rooms adjoining to the town-hall, eleven feet square. Allowance, 3.1. a week each, paid to the keeper. No court: no water: no employment. Keeper’s salary, £2.

1779, Aug. 26, No prisoners.

COUNTY

Carmarthen Circuit. CARDIGAN SHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at CARDIGAN.

No alteration. Very dirty, and abounds with vermin, as is often the case where there is no water.

1779, June 4, Debtors 2. Felons &c. none.

PEMBROKESHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HAVERFORDWEST.

No alteration, but clean and lately white-washed. An act is passed for building a new gaol; which, I am informed, is to be where the old castle now stands.

1779, June 5, Debtor 1. Felons See. 2.

HAVERFORDWEST TOWN and COUNTY GAOL. No alteration for the convenience of prisoners.

1779, June 5, Debtor, one Woman.

PEMBROKE TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms; no court, no water, no fewer. (See French Prisoners, p. 99.)

CARMARTHENSHIRE. COUNTY GAOL, CARMARTHEN CASTLE.

No alteration. At two of my visits, here were a number of idle and profane people playing at tennis. This is one of the bad effects of licences in gaols.

177June 4> Debtors 14. Felons See. 8.

COUNTY BOROUGH GAOL.

No alteration; probably never was washed: abounds with vermin. 1779, June 4, Debtors none. Felon &c. 1.

189

Cardiganshire.

Pembrokeshire.

Carmarthenshire.

SOUTH

APPENDIX.

190

Radnorshire.

Breconshire.

GLAMORGANSHIRE.

SOUTH WALES CIRCUIT.

RADNORSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at PRESTEIGN.

No alteration. The gaol ruinous, and the walls propped up. Gaoler’s salary now £5:5:0.

1779, May 17, Debtors 2. Felons See. 2.

BRECONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at BRECON.

A new gaol and bridewell now building out of the town near the

river. The situation is too low, so that fornetimes it may be exposed

to floods.

1779, June 3, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 3.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BRECON Discontinued, and the Prisoners sent to the county gaol.

BRECON TOWN GAO L.

No alteration.

1779, June 3, No prisoners.

GLAMORGANSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at CARDIFF.

No alteration, but a chaplain now appointed, the Rev. Mr. Evans-, duty, Sunday and Wednesday; salary, £30: and to the surgeon’s salary is added £20. A table of fees was hung up, but signed only by the Justices.

In not one of the gaols in the four Welch Circuits was the act for preserving the health of prisoners hung up.

1779, June 8, Debtors-3. Felons See. none.

Glamorgan-

South Wales Circuit. GLAMORGANSHIRE.

191

Glamorganshire. A Table of Fees and Chamber Rent to be taken by the Gaoler, and also the Rates he shall impose on each Prisoner that makes use of the Gaoler’s Bed and Bedding, and Directions for his Government of the Prison and Prisoners in his Custody, made in pursuance of the Statute in that case made and provided.

£■ S. D.

To the gaoler or turnkey at the receiving each prisoner into his custody, 7 Q

and which shall be paid by such prisoner before he is discharged J

To the gaoler upon the discharge of each prisoner 0:6:8

For the lodging of each prisoner in either of the fore-street chambers (the largest of which shall contain no more than three beds and the other two beds) such prisoner finding his own bedding and bed cloaths each night, seven farthings —

For the lodging of each prisoner in either of the fore-street chambers when the gaoler finds such prisoner with a sufficient feather bed, bolster and bed cloaths, three pence halfpenny per night For the lodging of each prisoner in either of such fore-street rooms

at the gaoler’s finding a flock bed, dull bed, or other coarse U a: o: z'x ordinary bed and bed cloaths, two pence halfpenny per night J For the lodging of each prisoner in any or either of the other chambers -v

or rooms in the gaol, when the gaoler finds such prisoner with a >0: o: 2 sufficient feather bed, bolster and bed cloaths, two pence per night J For a flock, dull, or other ordinary bed and bedding, one penny per night o: o: 1

That all the prisoners in his custody shall be at liberty to send out of the gaol for what victuals and drink they think fit, gratis; and that the gaoler for the time being shall not by compulsion or otherwise oblige any prisoner in his custody to buy any meat or drink of him, but if the prisoners or any or either of them shall out of choice deal with such gaoler for their provision or other thing, that then such gaoler shall supply such prisoners with sufficient provisions and drink at reasonable rates.

Glamorganshire.

That

19-

APPENDIX.

GLAMORGANSHIRE.

That if any difference should happen to arise between the gaoler and prisoners with regard to the goodness of the beds or bed cloaths or the goodness and price of the provisions the gaoler shall find such prisoners with, that then such difference shall be submitted to the arbitration of the treasurer of the said county for the time being, who is hereby desired, and as far as we can, empowered, to settle and adjust such differences and give such relief therein as shall be reasonable and just to the party grieved, and if it shall happen that either party shall think himself aggrieved by such adjustment, he may appeal from such order or determination as such treasurer shall make in the matter to the next General Quarter Sessions of the Peace to be holden for the said county.

In order to enforce the prisoners in the said gaol to pay duly and regularly for such chambers as they shall take, or such beds, bed cloaths, meat and drink as such gaoler shall find them with at the prices and in manner aforesaid. We do hereby give the gaoler, upon their neglect and refusal of payment for one vhole month together, liberty to turn them out of their said rooms and chambers into the common rooms, until such time that they shall have fully and bona fide paid what shall be so due from them to the said gaoler.

Mich1. Richards, IV. Morgan, Roger Powell.

COUNTY

Michaelmas Quarter Sessions, 1739.

A Copy.

South Wales Circuit. GLAMORGANSHIRE.

*93

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COWBRIDGE.

In each of the two new rooms, besides the window, there are five apertures of about a foot diameter for the circulation of air. Court not secure: no water.

1779, June 7, Prisoners 2.

CARDIFF TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms arched with brick under the town-hall. No court; no fewer; no water.

1779,. June 8, One; Debtor.

SWANSEY TOWN GAOL.

One room in the castle for debtors; and a dark room for felons &c. under the town-hall.

i779j June 7, ' No prisoners.

1

B b

GLAMORGANSHIRE.

4

CONCLUSION.

HAVING thus, according to my ability, completed the design I had engaged in, it was my intention immediately to have retired to the tranquil enjoyment of that easy competence a kind Providence has bestowed upon me: — happy in the idea, that I had in some degree been the instrument of alleviating the sufferings of a numerous and unhappy set of people, and had excited the attention of my countrymen to an important obieft of civil policy. May I be permitted, too, to say, that I felt additional satisfaction, in having avoided giving any possible occasion to impute what I had done to self-interested views. For as nothing but a consciousness of duty could have enabled me to go through all the disagreeable scenes which lay in my way, so I had the happiness of being placed out of the reach of any other incitements.

Mv resolution of resigning all further public concern in this matter was, however, broken in upon by the urgent persuasions of some, who were pleased to think me a proper person to afiift in the

CONCLUSION.

>95

superintendence of one of those great and useful plans I had recommended to the notice of the public. I was the more readily induced to comply with their felicitations, from a confidence that the persons associated with me had the fame general ideas with myself respecting the execution of the proposed plan, and would co-operate in it with the greatest zeal and intelligence.

It remains now to be tried, how far the wife and humane intentions of the legislature can be accomplished in this country; and in what degree we can avail ourselves of those lights, which it was the particular purpose of my foreign journeys to collect.

1

TABLE

J 96

TABLE

I.

1

De par les Commissaires pour le Soin des Malades & des Blesses de la Marine, et pour 1’Echange des Prisonniers de Guerre;

REGLES que tous les Prisonniers de Guerre, dans la Grande Bretagne, & I’lrlande,

doivent observer.

1.

T ES ordres donnes par l’Agent, aiant foin des prisonniers, doivent etre observes 1* fans replique ou dispute. Qu’aucun des prisonniers ofe infulter, menacer, maltraiter, & encore moins frapper le guichetier, ni personne par l’Agent employe aux affaires de la prison, fous peine de la punition qu’ordonneront Mellieurs les Commissaires, et de perdre leur tour d’etre echanges; detre etroitement enfermes, et prives de la moitie de leur vivres.

11.

Tous les prisonniers, lors que l’agent en fera la revue, repondront a leurs noms; et fi dans la lisle donnce a l’agent quelque erreur fe trouve, ils 1’indiqueront, afin de la corriger; et ainli prevoir la confusion qui refulteroit des meprifes des noms.

hi.

Tous les prisonniers refufants de repond-e a leurs noms a la revue, feront punis par la privation de leurs vivres, jufqu’ a ce qu’ils s’y foumettent.

IV.

S’il arrive du dommage aux lieu ou les prisonniers feront gardes, soit en voulant s’echapper, ou autrement, de propos delibere; les frais de la reparation feront payes

des

TABLES.

197

des vivres de ceux qui auront ainsi contrevenu; et fi les coupables ne peuvent etre decouverts, tous les prisonniers ensemble contribueront de leurs vivres, aux frais de cette reparation.

v.

Quiconque s’echappera de prison, etant repris, y fera mis au cachot; et n’y aura que demi-ration de vivres, jufqu’ a ce qu’il aura ainsi paye les frais faits pour le saisir et le ramener; et de plus il perdra son tour d’echange; un officier ainsi con-trevenant, fera des-lors regarde et traite comme simple matelot.

VI.

Il eft defendu de fe battre, fe quereller, ou faire defordre dans les prisons, ou aux endroits oii il fera permis aux prisonniers de prendre l’air, fous peine de punition felon que l’ostence l’exigera.

vn.

Les prisons feront tenues nettes & propres par les matelots, et cela tour a tour, comme l’agent l’ordonnera; & tout matelot qui refusera ce service a son tour, & qui en aura ete averti, fera prive de fes vivres jusque’ a ce qu’il s’y foumette.

VIII.

T

Les prisonniers doivent informer l’agent, des hardes, ou autres choses dont ils peuvent avoir besoin, et pour lesquels ils auront dequoi payer; et l’agent a ordre non feulement de permettre qu’ils en soient fournis, mais aussi d’avoir un foin tout particulier, qu’on ne leur en impose dans les prix.

IX.

Dans chaque prison les prisonniers pourront nommer trois, ou cing d’entre eux, et les changer quand il leur plaira, pour Pexamen des vivres; afin de voir s’ils font bons, & s’ils ont leur ration, soit pour le poids, soit pour la mesure; suivant la table d’avituaillement ci-deflous. Et s’il fe trouve quelque sujet de plainte, soit fur la maniere de les appreter, servir, ou dans quelqu’autre chose; ils doivent, avec bienfeance, le faire savoir a 1’agent; qui, trouvant la plainte fondee, doit imme-diatement y mettre ordre. S’il le neglige, ils doivent en avertir Messieurs les Commissaires, qui ne manqucront pas de leur rendre justice, a tous egards.

x.

Les boutiquiers (excepte ceux qui trafiquent dans des choses qu’il ne convient pas de vendre a des prisonniers,) feront'permis de rester a la grande porte, depuis dix

heures

198

TABLES.

heures du matin jufqu’ a trois heures de l’apres midi, pour vendre leur merchandifej, a tels prisonniers, qui font en fonds pour les payer fur Ic champ,

XI.

Celui d’entre les prisonniers qui ofera par ce moyen procurer des liqueurs, ou autre choses &-ca. qui ne conviennent pas a un prisonnier d’avoir, ou qui recevra, ou livrera aucune lettre, fera puni de Tabus qu’il aura salt de cette indulgence.

TABLE D’AVITUAILLEMENT.

Jours. Bierre. Pain. Boeuf. Beurre. Fromage. Pois. Set.

Quarles. Livres. Livres. Onces. Onces. Pinies, Onces.

Dimanche I 3 _ - I I

Lundi I 3 + - - I T

Mardi I 14 3 T - - I T 1 T

Mecredi I r J-- z 3 T - - - 1 T

Jeudi I It T - - 1 T 1 i

Vendredi I It 3 T - - - 1 SI.

Samedi I It - 4 ou 6 1 o’ I T

Total 7 I°4 4f 4 6 n 2r

* Ou un livre de bon cliou chacun.

The allowance of salt, and the note to pease, I saw once only, in a table that

seemed newly printed off.

TABLE

TABLE II. 199

An Account of the Number of Prisoners convi£led of Capital Crimes in Scotland

from ift January 1768 to ift July 1779.

This mark * denotes those that were pardoned; the rest were executed.

NORTHERN SOUTHERN WESTERN

CIRCUIT. CIRCUIT. CIRCUIT.

I-----A-----\ I-----*-----11-----A-----

Edinburgh. Aberdeen. Perth. Inverness. Jedburgh. Dum- FR I RS. Air. Glasgow. bTJ K-LING. CR I MES.

00 VO I — — - - Forgery.

*1 __ - - _ _ Horse-dealing.

1769 -- -- — - - - I - Murder and Robbery.

I I — - - Murder.

I -- — - - Street-robbery.

1770 I — -- -- - Forgery.

2 I - House-breaking and Theft.

— - -- 1 - - - - Sheep-dealing.

I — __ - - Robbery.

*1 .. — - - .. - - Murder.

1771 — -- *1 - - - - House-breaking and Theft.

— -- -- - *1 - - - - Theft.

*T __ - - Child-murder.

1772 — , - - Horse-dealing.

— - — -- - - - *2 - House-breaking and Theft.

I — — ~ - House-breaking and Theft.

2 — — - - Sheep-dealing.

2 — __ - - Murder and Robbery.

— -- I - *1 Horse-dealing,

>773 — - I *1 1 - - - - Murder.

— — — I - Robbing the Mail.

— — — *2 - Theft, Robbery, &c.

— — -- - - - - 2 - Robbery.

— — - - I House-breaking and Robbery.

*3 — — - Murder.

— - - - Returning from Transportation.

‘1 — .. - - Horse-dealing.

>774 I — — - - Sheep-dealing.

- — 1 - - House-breaking and Theft,

-- *1 — - - Theft of Cattle.

— -- — — - *1 - - - Rape.

__ .... - _ - - Murder.

>775 I - Theft.

2 - - Robbery.

I -- — - Child-murder.

— — I -- - Shop-breaking and Theft.

1776 — I — - - Murder.

— — -- — I - - - - Thefr.

- - — — - - - 1 - Stealing a Letterfrom Pod Office.

>777 — — — - *1 Child-murder.

1778 — — 1 - Theft of Cattle.

— — — *1 - Murder.

>779 - I - - Murder and Robbery.

23 5 7 5 5 I I 7 3 57 Total Condemned.

6 2 — 3 2 I — 2 2 I S Total Pardoned.

17 3 7 2 3 — I 5 I 39 Total Executed.

TAEI.E

TABLE III

200

Number of Convicts Executed, for London and Middlesex, during the last Eight Years.

Murder. Coiners. Various Crimes.' Total.

Men. Women. Men. Women. Men. Women.

From Dec. 1771 to Dec. 1772 3 — 2 — 32 — 37

Dec. 1772 to Dec. 1773 I 1 burnt I — 29 — 32

Dec. 1773 to Dec. 1774 — J — — 31 — 32

Dec. 1774 to Dec. 1775 I 3 — 40 I 46

Dec. 1775 to Dec. >776 6 — 8 — 24 — 38

Dec. 1776 to Dec. 1777 2 — I — 29 — 32

Dec. 1777 to Dec. *77® I — I — 31 — 33

Dec, 1778 to Dec. 1779 — — 2 1 burnt >9 I 2 5

'4 3 iS 1 235 >1 273

TABLE

TABLE IV.

201

An Account of the Number of Prisoners in the Gaols and Prisons of England and Wales, at the Time they were visited in 1779.

AS some County gaols are also the county bridewells, where petty offenders are not always separated from felons; in those places I include petty offenders under the article felons Ifc. The reason of my distinguishing the •women debtors, is to shew that a room or two in the gaoler’s house may probably be sufficient for them, instead of a separate ward, as proposed in my general plan for a county gaol (edit. 1.) I have omitted mentioning all those prisons in which, at the time of my visiting, there were no persons confined.

Debtors. Men. Wom. Felons Petty &c. Offenders. Debtors. Men. Wom. Felons , &c. Pet. Off.

Abingdon I O O O Beverley O O 0 1

- Bridewell O O O 3 Town 2 0 0 O

Appleby 7 I 2 O Hall-garth I O 0 O

Aylesbury 6 O 12 O Birmingham O O 0 8

— Bridewell O O O 3 Bodmin O O 0 is

Ayljham O O O 4 — — Sheriff’s Ward I 2 1 0 O

Barking O O O 1 Boson O O 2, O

Basford 2 O O O Bradford I I 1 O O

Bath 10 O O 2 Brecon 3 O 3 O

Bailey 17 1 O O Bristol 4* 6 9 0

Beaumaris 4 O I O — — Bridewell O O O 8

Beetles O O O 9 — > Lawford’s-gate O O O S

Bedford 7 O 2 O Bunting ford O O O I

— Bridewell O O O n Bury St. Edmunds 18 O 5 O

Berkhamsted O O O 1 Bridewell O O O 2

Berwick 2 O O O Cambridge 20 I 2 O

56 2 17 25 108 9 21 38

C c Cambridge

202

TABLES

Debtors. Felons Petty Debtors. Felons Pet.

Men. Worn. &c. Offenders, Men. Worn. fire. Off.

Cambridge Bridewell o O 0 7 Dover Castle 3 O 0 O

Town 1 O 2 0 Town I 0 1 0

■ Bridewell o O O 6 Durham 12 2 22 0

Canterbury 2 O 2 O — Bridewell O O O 9

• — ... Bridewell o O O 4 Ely 7 O I 0

Cardiff 2 I O O — — Bridewell O 0 O 2

Town I O O O Exeter O O 33 O

Cardigan X I O O SherifPs Ward 35 I O O

Carlisle 32 O 21 O City 2 0 2 O

City 2 I O O r Bridewell O O 0 27

Carmarthen >3 1 8 O Flint I 0 3 O

Town O O 1 O Fokingham 0 0 O 2

Carnarvon S O 1 0 Gainsborough O 0 O s

Chelmsford 3+ O 7 0 Gloucester «5 1 24 0

Bridewell O O O 27 — City I 0 1 0

Chester iS I 4 0 Gosport O 0 O 9

— — City 6 I 5 0 Guildford O 0 O 3

— — Bridewell O O O 1 Halifax 5 0 O O

Chejierf.cld Bridewell 0 O O 1 Haljicd O 0 O 5

Cirencester 0 O O 6 Haverfordwest I 0 2 0

Clare 0 O O 1 Town O I O 0

Cohhejltr 0 0 4 O Hereford 18 I 9 0

Bridewell 0 0 O 1 City 4 0 O O

Coventry 5 0 4 O Hertford 1 0 *7 O

Bridewell 0 0 O I Bridewell 0 0 0 I

Cowbridge 0 0 O <«» Horsham 12 0 6 O

Dartford 0 0 O S Hull 8 0 I O

Derby 12 0 6 0 — . Bridewell O 0 0 1 I

Devizes 1 0 O H Huntingdon IO I *4 O

Dolgelly 3 0 •n O Ipswich 22 2 23 0

Dorchester '4 0 6 O IVELCHESTER 32 1 >5 0

i5z 6 73 76 190 10 >74 74

Kettering

TABLES

203

Debtors. Felons Petty Debtors. Felons Pet

Men. Worn, , &C, Offenders. Men. Worn. &C, Off.

Kettering O O 0 2 Ludlow O O 2 O

Kingston 3 0 0 0 Lynn Regis 3 O 2 O

— — Bridewell O 0 0 6 Maidstone * 5 O 23 0

Lancaster. 67 5 11 O — Bridewell O O O 13

Launceston O O 4 0 Manchester 0 O O I I

Lavenham 0 0 O 3 Marlborough 0 O 0 4

Leicester 22 I IO O Middlewich 0 0 O 5

■ — Bridewell 0 0 O 8 Monmouth 6 0 1 2 O

■ — Town 3 0 2 0 Montgomery 4 0 3 0

Lewes O 0 O 8 Bridewell O 0 0 I

Lincoln 22 0 '4 O Morpeth 9 I 6 O

— City I 0 0 O Bridewell O 0 O 3

Litchfield 3 0 I 0 Nantvoich 2 0 O O

Liverpool 22 3 0 0 Newcastle 13 1 4 O

— Bridewell O 0 0 8 — — small Gaol O 0 O I

London Bridewell O 0 0 13 Bridewell O 0 O 7

— — Borough > 13 5 2 O Newport, Essex 0 0 O 9

Compter 5 Northampton 14 I •5 O

_ — Clerkenwell O 0 45 0 — — Town 1 0 O O

Bridewell 0 0 O 171 Norwich 23 I 29 O

— Fleet 177 7 O 0 — City *9 0 5 O

— — King’s Bench 473 25 O 0 - Bridewell ! 0 0 O 7

Marshalsea 88 4 O 0 Nottingham 12 0 S O

. Newgate 46 5 Hi 0 — — T own -7 0 O O

— — New Ludgate •5 O O 0 Oakham 3 0 I O

Poultry Compt. 43 3 0 0 Odiam 0 0 O 5

— Savoy 0 O 0 98 Oxford 12 I 4 O

Tothill-Fields lo 0 0 74. Peterborough 1 0 O O

Bridewell s - Bridewell O 0 O I

— — Whitechapel 5 0 0 0 Pet-worth O 0 O 2

• Wood-street -i 3Z 6 ] 1 0 Plymouth I 0 O O

Compter J Portsmouth 6 0 I O

I03S 62 241 39* 146 s I 12 69

C c 2 Presteign

TABLES.

Debtors. Felons Petty Debtors. Felons Pet.

Men. Worn. &c. Offenders. Men. Worn. &c. Off.

Presteion 2 0 2 O Stafford Bridewell 0 O O 9

Preston O 0 0 •7 Swaff bam 0 O O IO

Readinc 8 I 9 O Taunton. 0 O 0 IO

— — Bridewell O 0 0 7 The 1'ford 0 O I 0

Richmond 6 0 0 1 Thirffi 0 O 0 2

Rippon Liberty 3 0 0 0 VJk 0 0 0 7

— T own 1 0 0 1 Wakes.eld 0 0 0 20

Rochester 2 0 0 0 Walsingham 0 0 0 2

Ruthin 0 •* 0 Warwick 21 I 28 O

Si. Alban's Liberty 0 0 I 0 — Bridewell O 0 0 I Z

— Bridewell 0 0 0 3 Winchester 12 0 26 O

St. George's Fields 1 0 0 0 44 — Bridewell O 0 0 I I

Bridewell J U'indjor Csitle I 0 0 0

Salisbury 16 I •5 0 T own O 0 I O

- — City 1 0 I 0 Wijleaeh I 1 0 O

Sheffield s 0 O 0 Witney O 0 0 7

Shepton-Mallel 0 0 O •9 Wolverhampton 0 0 0 2

Sherborn 0 0 0 2 Woodbridge 0 0 0 I

Shrewsbury •9 4 10 0 Worcester 18 1 8 O

— — Town I O 0 8 Bridewell 0 0 O 6

Bridewell O O 0 3 City s I 4 O

Southampton Wrexham 0 0 O 2

Sheriff’s Ward 3 3 Wymundham O 0 O 5

Town 0 O I O Yarmouth 4 0 4 0

— — Bridewell 0 O 0 I York 64 9 16 0

Southwark 20 3 •4 O City 9 3 2 0

Southwell 0 O 0 •7 " St. Peter’s 5 0 I 0

Spalding 0 O 0 2 — — - Bridewell O 0 O 8

Stafford 40 O •4 O

•33 9 69 130 140 16 91 114

Feted,

Though I have visited all the County gaols, and I think all the County bridewells, as also many of the corporation and private-property prisons, yet as there are some few of the two latter which I did not fee in 1779, we may add fxty more prisoners on their account; and then probably wo shall have nearly the average number of persons confined at one time in the prisons of this kingdom.

INDEX

Page

A.

d.CLE - - 140.

Acquitted prisoners detained for fees 109.

-----not detained for

fees - - 84.

Act of parliament, Englifo and Irifo

compared - - m.

Air - - 103.

Aix-la-Chapelle - - 76.

Allowance to galley-slaves 35, 52, 55,

58, 85.

■ -- — prisoners 4, 6,16,17,19,20,

21,22, 26, 27, 37, 39, 54, 60, 72, 80.

-----Prussian slaves - 25.

----- Tuscan slaves - 43.

Alms-house at Florence - 41.

-----Naples - 55.

----- — — Vienna - 33.

Amiens - - 83..

Page

Amferdam 12.

Anglesey* 1S7.

Antwerp 79-

Apertures in the ceiling for lettin S

out foul air 141.

Affaflinations, frequent in Italy 56.

Assize, judges at six days 104.

Augjlnrg 67.

Aylfoam 139.

B.

Bakers, punishment cf - 34-

La!a r- - 188.

Bajiille - 87.

Baths, improper use of - 181,

Battle - '31*

Bayreuth - 73-

Beccaria, his remark on executions 56.

Bedding necessary 36. Bedfordfoirc

Page Page

Bedfordshire - - »35- Chaplain instrufb the prisoners 8, 43,

Bergues - - 91. 67.

Birkjhirt - - 156. reads regulations 81.

Berlin - - 26, resides in the prison 27,39,72,

Bern - - 65. >4 CO

Berwick - - 178. Charitable societies 37, 47, 64, 83.

Bologna - - 33. Cheshire - 182.

Bojlott - - 152. Civita-vecchia SI-

Bounty to prisoners of war. , French Clothing to galley-slaves 43. 52-

and English - - IOO. Clothes to be worn in prison 42,44,67,79.

Brackley - - >53- offelons, ought tobe buried 132.

Bradford - - *75- Collar, iron, on (laves 28, 29.

Bread, assize of - OQ W 4- , 66. Colog n 75.

Breconshire - - I9O. Combinations prevented - 5> H-

Breda - - 22. Commissioners of sick and wounded.

Brutifwick - - 2J. their attention 102.

BruJJ'els - - 78. Condemned, liberal allowance to 47,76.

Buckir.gbamflnre - - >33- Confinement, terms of 35> 4Z-

Buckingham - - 134. Consumption, supposed contagious 33.

Cornwall - 170.

Cumberland - 178.

C. D.

Calais - - 92.

Cambridgeshire - - 136. Deaths at Amsterdam, 12.

Cardiff - - 190. Debtors alimented 4, i2: , 20, 26, 30,

Cardiganshire - - 189. 33. 75-

Carmarthen fire - - ibid. fewer, cause of 120.

Carnarvonshire - - I8S. not confined when they have

Cefiio bonorum, process of - 103. no effects 75*

Cham berry - - 63- Denbighshire - 186.

Chapel, decent attendance at 6. Denbigh - 1 CO

in houses of correction 28. Derbyshire - 148.

Chaplain to each galley - 55- Deventer 21.

Devon fire

INDEX.

Page

Dcvcnjhirt 169.

Divine service at Rotterdam 7-

Dolgelly 188.

Dorsetshire 169.

Dre/den 29.

Dublin 10S.

Dungeon funk lower lS2.

Dungeons to force confedion 21.

horrid 31, 68, 7°> 77-

Dunkirk 90.

Durham 176.

E.

Edinburgh - - 103.

Employment ofprisoners 4, 9, 10, 14,18, 26, 28,35,61,62,69,71,120,127,153.'

...... — ----- in cleaning streets 65, 66.

— ----- in linen cloth manu-

fadlory - 61, 79.

■ ----- in grinding corn 29, S5.

.-----fpcftaclc

glades - - 71.

■ ----- in making lace 71, 79, 80.

-----in working on marble 73.

■ -----in picking oakum 19, 120,

181.

•-----on paper-hangings 79.

■ ----- inpolilhingplate-gladesS5.

----- pounding done 75, 76.

■ - tile-lherds 174.

■ -----attcndingfilk-worms 25,28.

■ -----sawing wood 30, 53.

-----spinning, &c. 4, 9, 18, 20,

26, 28, 29, 31, 65, 66, 71, 74, 76, 79, 80, 107, 127.

Page

Employment in various trades 10, 60,

67. 7 79-

■ -----weavingcoarfccarpeting 22.

-----sacking for the

East India Company - 21.

■ '»■ gauze - 61.

-----woollen manufactory 74,78.

-----of galley-slaves 42, 52, 53,

55- 57-

-----necedary - 65.

-----none in bridewells 132,

133, 134, 139, 168, 169, 170,

172, 1S7.

Escapes, expedient to prevent 83.

----- punished 43, 52, 55, 61.

- notpunished - 65.

Essex - 126.

Executions, better if less frequent 56. not frequent 12, 20, 25,

75> 76.

■ number of, at Amsterdam 12. — 1 in London and

Middlesex - 200.

■ ■- ----- in Scotland 105.

■ soon after sentence ibid.

F.

Fire,precautions against 34,45,108,130. Finnian, Count de, his kind adift-

ance - 61.

Flanders - . 78.

Flintshire - - is5.

Florence •- 39-

Folbergill, Dr. on work for prisoners 73.

France

INDEX.

Page Page

France; - 83. Goude Z - 9.

Francfort - - 75. Gratx. 34-

Frey burg - - 6j.

Friars, their hospitals 33, 40, 51, 56,

63, 69. H.

Fumigation, Dr. Lind’s method of 115.

Hampjhirt - 166.

Hanmer 186.

G. Harlan - IO.

Harwich - 127.

Galleys, none sent to under twenty 52. Heberden, Dr. on wet rooms 23.

Galley-slaves 35, 37, 41, 51, 34, 57, Herefordshire - 163.

63, 85. Hertfordshire - I2S.

expense of - 52. Holland " 3*

Gaming prohibited . 57. Hospital at Bologna - 38-

Gaoler, care in choice of - 84. 40.

or keeper, rules for 14, 20. *= 5

Gaoler’s salary - 5, 20, 84. IO-

Gaolers salaries in France 84. Lille 0 82.

Gaol fever at Cambridge - 137. - 6z.

56.

■ — - — not found in Italy 54. 63.

- - S. Michele at Rome " 48.

Gaols, new, commended 22, 130, Hospitals, loftiness of 56.

171. — at Paris j 86*

Geneva - •» 64. at Rome 50.

Genoa - - 57. . — for convalescents 33. 4°> 5*•

Germany - 24,67. - — — for children 33, 59, 63, 86.

Ghent - - 79. for galley-slaves 43 S3. 55. S8-

Glamorganshire - - 190. — for lunatics 59> 63» s7-

Gla/gotu - - 107. — - — for orphans 48, 63.

Gloucesterjl/ire - - 165. Hot provisions every day in houses of

Gorgona » - 65. correction 19. 72.

Dd Houses

INDEX.

Page Page

Houses of correction, not to be Leghorn 41.

expected to maintain themselves 72. Leicejlerjhiu - - 146.

Hulks on the Thames 1 1 2. Licences in gaols, bad effects of 189.

Huntingdonshire >35- Liege 76.

Lille 82.

I. Lincolnjhiri - Ijl.

Linen, clean, to prisoners once a week

Idleness, bad eft'efts of 65, 85, •33- 60, 79, 80, 83, 90.

InfeCtion, precautions again!! 3>- London - 117.

Infirmary for galley-slaves on Ihore 53. Lucca 57.

55 ,58- Lukau 29.

■ of a prison spacious 45 54- Lunatics kept with prisoners 109, 134,

Inspectors care - 7, 14, 17, 57* 137> *39»*5'»l68> *73> 175,176,187.

Ireland 108. ■» not to go in common with

Iron bedsteads - 38, 186. prisoners 109.

Iron-grate doors - 33, 130.

Irons used in bridewells 139, 140, M7» M.

166, 171. Magdeburg 25.

not used 9, 37, 39, 45 78. Malefa&ors children educated - 13.

Italy 56. Mann, Sir Horace, his kind assistance 41.

Jedburgh 103. Mats to sleep on 4.

Mead, Dr. on pestilential contagion 23.

K. Measurements, minuteness of, apology for 27.

Keepers Salaries - 5, 20 84. Merionethshire - 188.

Kent 128. Middleburg , 21.

Kettering 154. Milan 59.

Kidderminster 159. Mildenhall ' *43*

Kilmainham 1 10. Monmouth - - 165.

King’s benefaction at Salijlury - 168. Monmouthshire - - 164.

— bounty in Cornwall 171. Montgomery flirt 187.

Munich 68.

L. N.

Lancashire 179. Nantnuich - - 183.

Laubaek 34* Naples 53.

Newport

INDEX.

Page

Newport Pagnel - . 133.

Norfolk - . 137,

Northamptonjhiri - - 133,

Northumberland - . 177.

Nottinghamshire - - 14.9,

Number of inhabitants at Amsterdam 13.

- - ..... at Naples 53.

Nurenburg - - 70.

O.

Oakum, picking, a healthy employment - 132.

Ofnobrug - 24.

Oundle - - 154.

Oxfordshire - - 158.

P.

Padua - 38.

Paris - - 83.

Pembrokeshire - - 189.

Perjury uncommon - 104.

Perth - 103.

Police good - 28.

Prangins, Baron de, his prison 64.

Prague - 30.

Prayers daily in houses of correction - >S» 27-

Prison for boys - 49.

Prisons, foreign, arched 34. 45-

— — permission to visit at Hated times 68. Prisoners, American, at Plymouth, 101. 1 — Forton 102.

1 — Pembroke ibid.

" — regulations

ibid.

Page

Prisoners discharged in open court ioj.

----- cn Pcnfon - 77.

• few in Scotland, causes of 104.

— numerous in Ireland - 109.

----- — refractory punished 5, 15, 21,

42, 78, 8o, 81.

----- sick, care of 45>53>54*

released - 137.

— — — supplied fromcounty

infirmary - 160.

----- tried out ofirons - 105.

Prisoners of war, English, at Ardres 92.

- Bergues 91.

- Bourbourg 92.

- Calais 92.

- Dunkirk 90.

----- — parole, security of 93.

— -- regulations for 90.

— -----sick in military

hospitals - 90, 94.

Prisoners of war, French, at Belfaf 101.

- Brifol 95.

- Carlife 98.

- Ckefter 99.

- Deal 98.

- Dublin IOl.

- Edinburgh 100.

- Forton 97.

- Pembroke 98.

, ----- ..-1 . Plymouth 93.

— Winchefer 96.

- ----- regulations for 97.

• sick, in

naval hospital - 98.

— — -----inspectorof, proper 99.

Profit

for

INDEX.

Page Pagt.

Profit of work, one seventh to keeper 5- Schools, parilTi, in Scotland - 104.

to prisoners 25,43, 53» Schnvabach - - 71.

55. 7«> 80. Scotland - - 103.

- one third to prisoners 30. Secrete chambers described - 59.

— — one fifth to ditto 79- Separation, according to crimes 18,20,

all to ditto 32. 65.

Public diversions taxed 18. Shropshire - - 161.

Punishment second time of confine- Slaves, employment of 25, 35,42, 53,

ment - 26, 119. 55*

— humanity to 35.

R. - . sick, great attention to 43, 56.

- - 'Tu/can, lie on shore - 41.

Radnorjhiri 190. Small-pox in prisons 128,165.

Rasp-house at Amsterdam >3- Somersetshire - - 171.

- Rotterdam 4- Soutine ark - . - 122.

Ratijbon 69.

Recruiting from prisons, danger of 110.

Spandau - * 28.

Spin-house at Amsterdam - 17.

Regents of prisons, privileges of 13- — Harlem - 10.

■ ...... room for inprisons So.

Regulation, new, in bridewell - 119.

Regulations hung up 37, 57, 58, 185.

-----in the chapel 81.

— at the prison at Rome 46.

— tables of 6,16,17,20,42,

57, 58, 72, Si, 90, 97, 185. Rune - - 44.

Rotterdam - - 4.

— Utrecht how supported

- 20.

18.

Spirituous liquors permitted in prisons in Scotland - - 103.

- in Ireland ill.

- not permitted 15,20.

Stadt-house prison at Amsterdam 12.

- Rotterdam 4.

- Utrecht 20.

Rules, new in King’s Bench 122.

— — or bounds, extensive 123.

Rut/andshire - * 152.

1 c !31.

s.

St. Omers S9.

Schajjhaufen 67.

Staffordshire 160.

Stair-case, remarkable 50.

State prisoners 29, 46.

Stirling - - 103.

Stone of disgrace - 38.

Suffolk - 141.

Surry 132.

Sujfett * - 130. Swan/ty

INDEX.

Page Page

Swansey ~ - >93- W.

Switzerland - 64. Wall, distant from the prison 39, 47, 59.

Walsingham - I4O.

Warwickshire - 144-

T. Water, cold, effett of in gaol fever 125.

■ instances where not accessible

Table of fees, English 136, 142, 145, I25, I27, I33, I34, 135> 139, 140,

147, 150, 153, 161, 1S3, 191. 141, 151, I52, I55, 157> 159, 165,

- 106. 175> 177> 1S6, 187, 188, 189, 193.

Tarras floors, good - 40. Westminster - 121

Tennis-court, improper in gaols 189. Westmorland - 179-

Torture, dress for 79. West-Wycomb - >34-

room described ' - 68. White-walhing in foreign houses of

- rooms 39, 46, 64, 66, 67, correction 3z-

68, 70, 77, 79. Wiltshire - 168.

25, 76. Witches, rooms for - 68, 70.

Tower - 117. Women ironed 30.

Triejle 34> ' in houses of correction cleanly

Turin - 63. 4, 8, 18.

Work-house at Amsterdam 18.

U. commended 143*

IForceJlershire , S9i

Unhealthiness, cause of 36.

Utrecht - 20.

V.

Venice - 37.

Vienna - 31.

Wurtemburg - 74.

---

Y.

Yorke, Sir Joseph, kindness of - 22.

Yorkshire - 172.

Z.

Zurich - 66.

THE END.

DIRECTIONS to the BOOK-BINDER.

The Plates are to be inserted as follows:

PACE

Breda House of Correction, to face - 22.

Rome, front of the Prison, to face - 44.

- House of Correction, to face - 50.

Milan, House of Correction, to face - 62.

Bern, Employment of Criminals, two Plates, to face - 66.

Bastille, to face - 88.

