THE

STATE

OF THE

PRISONS

IN

ENGLAND and WALES,

with

PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS,

AND AN ACCOUNT OF SOME

FOREIGN PRISONS and HOSPITALS.

By JOHN HOWARD, F. R: S.

Ah little think the gay -----

Whom pleasure, power, and affluence surround.

How many pine in want, and dungeon-glooms;

Shut from the common air.

THOMSON.

THE SECOND EDITION.

WARRINGTON,

PRINTED BY WILLIAM EYRES;

AND SOLD BY T. CADELL IN THE STRAND, AND N. CONANT

IN FLEET-STREET, LONDON.

MDCCLXXX

Parum est coercere Improbos Poena,

nisi Probos efficias Disciplina.

TO

THE HONOURABLE

THE HOUSE OF COMMONS,

IN GRATITUDE FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT

WHICH THEY HAVE GIVEN TO THE DESIGN,

AND FOR THE HONOUR THEY HAVE CONFERRED ON THE AUTHOR,

THIS BOOK

IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED BY THEIR MOST OBEDIENT SERVANT,

Cardington,

BEDFORDSHIRE,

April 5th, 1777.

CONTENTS

Page

Introduction - 1.

Sect. I.

General View of Distress in Prisons - 5.

Sect. II.

Bad Customs in Prisons - 16.

Sect. III.

Proposed Improvements in the Structure and Management of Prisons - 24.

Sect. IV.

An Account of Foreign Prisons and Hospitals - 51.

Sect. V.

Prisoners of War in England - 155.

Sect. VI.

Scotch and Irish Prisons - 162.

Sect. VII.

A particular Account of English Prisons - 169.

Conclusion - 432.

Tables - 433.

INTRODUCTION.

THE distress of prisoners, of which there are few who have not some imperfect idea, came more immediately under my notice when I was sheriff of the county of Bedford;* and the circumstance which excited me to activity in their behalf was, the seeing some, who by the verdict of juries were declared not guilty; some, on whom the grand jury did not find such an appearance of guilt as subjected them to trial; and some, whose prosecutors did not appear against them; after having been confined for months, dragged back to gaol, and locked up again till they should pay sundry fees to the gaoler, the clerk of assize, &c.

In order to redress this hardship, I applied to the justices of the county for a salary to the gaoler in lieu of his fees. The bench were properly affected with the grievance, and willing to grant the relief desired: but they wanted a precedent for charging the county with the expence. I therefore rode into several neighbouring counties in search of a precedent; but I soon learned that the same injustice was practised in them; and looking into the prisons, I beheld scenes of calamity, which I grew daily more and more anxious to alleviate. In order therefore to gain a more perfect knowledge of the particulars and extent of it, by various and accurate observation, I visited most of the County-Gaols in England.

* In 1773.

2 INTRODUCTION.

Seeing in two or three of them some poor creatures whose aspect was singularly deplorable, and asking the cause of it, the answer was, “they were lately brought from the bridewells." This started a fresh subject of inquiry. I resolved to inspect the bridewells: and for that purpose travelled again into the counties where I had been; and, indeed, into all the rest; examining houses of correction, city and town gaols. I beheld in many of them, as well as in the county gaols, a complication of distress: but my attention was principally fixed by the gaol fever, and the smallpox,which I saw prevailing to the destruction of multitudes, not only of felons in their dungeons, but of debtors also.

The gaol fever is no new subject of complaint. Stow, in his Survey, mentions,* that “in the year 1414, the gaolers of Newgate and Ludgate dyed, and prisoners in Newgate to the number of sixty-four.” And speaking of the King's Bench Prison,† says, that in the six years preceding the year 1579, one hundred prisoners died there: and twelve between Michaelmas and March of the last mentioned year, “through a certain contagion called the sickness of the house;" and I shall presently have occasion, among the fatal effects of this distemper propagated from prisons, and infecting many abroad, to mention an ancient instance of that sort also. These effects are now so notorious, that what terrifies most of us from looking into prisons, is the gaol distemper so frequent in them.

Upon this subject I was examined in the House of Commons in March 1774; when I had the honour of their thanks. Soon after that, Mr. Popham, Member for Taunton, repeated the humane attempt which had miscarried a few years before; and brought in a bill for the relief of prisoners who should be acquitted, respecting their fees; and another bill for preserving the health of prisoners, and preventing the gaol distemper. They both passed that sessions. By those acts, the tear was wiped from many an eye; and the legislature had for them “the blessing of many that were ready to perish.”

The great honour done me by the House has excited the curiosity of some to inquire what facts I had collected. This is

* Vol. I. p. 19.

† Vol. II. p. 18.

INTRODUCTION. 3

one reason of the present publication: but it is not the only, nor the principal one. There are still remaining many disorders that ought to be rectified: prisoners suffer great hardships, from which I am desirous that they should be set free: the fever is not, as I am persuaded it may be, totally eradicated. These are my motives for printing this book. I think it will shew plainly, that much is yet to be done for the regulation of prisons; and I am not without hope, that the present Parliament will finish what was so laudably begun by the last.

I was called to the first part of my talk by my office; and prompted to the pursuit of it by the sorrows of the sufferers, and love to my country. The work grew upon me insensibly. I could not enjoy my ease and leisure in the neglect of an opportunity offered me by Providence of attempting the relief of the miserable. The attention of Parliament to the subject, led me to conclude that some additional labour would not be loft; and I extended my plan. The difficulty I found in searching out evidence of fraud and cruelty in various articles, together with other sources of distress, obliged me to repeat my visits, and travel over the kingdom more than once: and after all, I suspect that many frauds have been concealed from me; and that sometimes the interest of my informants prevailed over their veracity. Besides, as I had in my first journeys gathered, from facts and experience, proofs of the mischievous effects of the want of cleanliness and fresh air, I had in my latter visits these strong arguments to enforce my persuasions; and, in consequence, many gaolers grew at last more mindful and complying, for the fake not only of their prisoners, but of themselves and their own families.

It was not, I own, without some apprehensions of danger, that I first visited the prisons; and I guarded myself by smelling to vinegar, while I was in those places, and changing my apparel afterwards. This I did constantly and carefully when I began; but by degrees I grew less cautious: not only because use abated the force of noxious impressions upon me, but also on account of the alteration made in some gaols by the act for preserving the health of prisoners. One may now look into many a prison without gaining an idea of the condition it was in a few years ago. I wish the reformation to be not for

4 INTRODUCTION.

the present only, but lasting. If the motive for amendment has any where been merely temporary, there is no doubt but the effect will cease with the cause: those who from such inducement have obeyed, will in future follow the example of others who have disregarded the law; and prisons that have been amended will relapse into their former state.

As to what is still wrong, I set down matter of fact without amplification; which would in the end rather impede than promote the object of my wishes; that is, the correction of what is really amiss.

The journeys were not undertaken for the traveller's amusement; and the collections are not published for general entertainment;but for the perusal of those who have it in their power to give redress to the sufferers.

The writer begs his reader to excuse the frequent egotisms; which he did not know how to avoid, without using circumlocutions that might have been more disgusting.

5

SECTION I.

GENERAL VIEW OF DISTRESS IN PRISONS,

THERE are prisons, into which whoever looks will, at first sight of the people confined there, be convinced, that there is some great error in the management of them: the sallow meagre countenances declare, without words, that they are very miserable. Many who went in healthy, are in a few months changed to emaciated dejected objects. Some are seen pining under diseases, “sick, and in prison;“ expiring on the floors, in loathsome cells, of pestilential fevers, and the confluent small-pox: victims, I will not say to the cruelty, but I must say to the inattention, of sheriffs, and gentlemen in the commission of the peace.

The cause of this distress is, that many prisons are scantily supplied, and some almost totally destitute of the necessaries of life.

[Food.]

There are several bridewells (to begin with them) in which prisoners have no allowance of food at all. In some, the keeper farms what little is allowed them: and where he engages to supply each prisoner with one or two pennyworth of bread a day, I have known this shrunk to half, sometimes less than half the quantity, cut or broken from his own loaf.

It will perhaps be asked, does not their work maintain them? for every one knows that those offenders are committed to hard labour. The answer to that question, though true, will hardly be believed. There are few bridewells in which any work is done, or can be done. The prisoners have neither tools, nor materials of any kind: but spend their time in sloth,

6 GENERAL VIEW OF

profaneness and debauchery, to a degree which, in some of those houses that I have seen, is extremely shocking.

Some keepers of these houses, who have represented to the magistrates the wants of their prisoners, and desired for them necessary food, have been silenced with these inconsiderate words, Let them work or starve. When those gentlemen know the former is impossible, do they not by that thoughtless sentence, inevitably doom poor creatures to the latter?

I have asked some keepers, since the late act for preserving the health of prisoners, why no care is taken of their sick: and have been answered, that the magistrates tell them the act does not extend to bridewells*.

In consequence of this, at the quarter sessions you see prisoners, covered (hardly covered) with rags; almost famished; and sick of diseases, which the discharged spread wherever they go; and with which those who are sent to the county-gaols infect these prisons.

The same complaint, want of food, is to be found in many county gaols. In above half these, debtors have no bread; although it is granted to the highwayman, the house-breaker, and the murderer: and medical assistance, which is provided for the latter, is withheld from the former. In many of these gaols, debtors who would work are not permitted to have any tools, lest they should furnish felons with them for escape or other mischief. I have often seen these prisoners eating their water-soup (bread boiled in mere water) and heard them say, ”We are locked up and almost starved to death.”

As to the relief provided for debtors by the benevolent act, 32d of George II. (commonly called the lords act, because it originated in their house) I did not find in all England and Wales (except the counties of Middlesex and Surrey) twelve debtors who had obtained from their creditors the four-pence a day, to which they had a right by that act. The means of procuring it were out of their reach. In one of my journies I found near six hundred prisoners, whose debts were under

* If the late act does not include bridewells, it is required, by an act 7th James I. Cap. IV. that “the masters and governors of — houses of correction shall have some fit allowance — for the relieving of such as shall happen to be weak and sick in their custody.”

Sect. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 7

twenty pounds each: some of them did not owe above three or four pounds: and the expense of sueing for the aliment is in many places equal to those smaller debts; for which some of these prisoners had been confined several months.

At Carlisle but one debtor of the forty-nine whom I saw there had obtained his groats: and the gaoler told me, that during the time he had held that office, which was fourteen years, no more than four or five had received it; and that they were soon discharged by their creditors neglecting to pay it. No one debtor had the aliment in York castle, Devon, Cheshire, Kent, and many other counties. The truth is, some debtors are the most pitiable objects in our gaols.

To their wanting necessary food, I must add not only the demands of gaolers, &c. for fees; but also the extortion of bailiffs. These detain in their houses (properly enough denominated spunging-houses) at an enormous expense, prisoners who have money. I know there is a legal provision against this oppression; but the mode of obtaining redress (like that of recovering the groats) is attended with difficulty: and the abuse continues. The rapine of these extortioners needs some more effectual and easy check: no bailiff should be suffered to keep a public house;* the mischiefs occasioned by their so doing, are complained of in many parts of the kingdom.

Here I beg leave to mention the hard case of prisoners confined on exchequer processes; and those from the ecclesiastical courts: the latter are excluded from the privilege of bail; and the former from the benefit of insolvent acts.

Felons have in some gaols two pennyworth of bread a day; in some three halfpennyworth; in some a pennyworth; in some none: the particulars will be seen hereafter in their proper places. I often weighed the bread in different prisons, and found the penny loaf seven ounces and a half to eight and a half, the other loaves in proportion. It is probable that when this allowance was fixed by its value, near double the quantity

* By the statute 32d George II. it is enacted, that “No sheriff, bailiff, &c — shall convey any person arrested — to any public victualling or other drinking-house — without the consent of the person so arrested.“ Now if the bailiff himself keeps a public house, this seems to preclude the debtor's choice; he must go to a public house, or directly to gaol.

8 GENERAL VIEW OF

that the money will now purchase, might be bought for it: yet the allowance continues unaltered: and it is not uncommon to see the whole purchase, especially of the smaller sums, eaten at breakfast; which is sometimes the case when they receive their pittance but once in two days: and then on the following day they must fast.

This allowance being so far short of the cravings of nature, and in some prisons lessened by farming to the gaoler, many criminals are half starved: such of them as at their commitment were in health, come out almost famished, scarce able to move, and for weeks incapable of any labour.

[Water.]

Many prisons have no water. This defect is frequent in bridewells, and town-gaols. In the felons courts of some county gaols there is no water: in some places where there is water, prisoners are always locked up within doors, and have no more than the keeper or his servants think fit to bring them: in one place they were limited to three pints a day each — a scanty provision for drink and cleanliness!

[Air.]

And as to air, which is no less necessary than either of the two preceding articles, and given us by Providence quite gratis, without any care or labour of our own; yet, as if the bounteous goodness of Heaven excited our envy, methods are contrived to rob prisoners of this genuine cordial of life, as Dr. Hales very properly calls it: I mean by preventing that circulation and change of the salutiferous fluid, without which animals cannot live and thrive. It is well known that air which has performed its office in the lungs, is feculent and noxious. Writers upon the subject shew, that a hogshead of it will last a man only an hour: but those who do not choose to consult philosophers, may judge from a notorious fact. In 1756, at Calcutta in Bengal, out of 170 persons who were confined in a hole there one night, 154 were taken out dead. The few survivors ascribed the mortality to their want of fresh air, and called the place, from what they suffered there, Hell in miniature!

Air which has been breathed, is made poisonous to a more intense degree, by the effluvia from the sick, and what else in prisons is offensive. My reader will judge of its malignity, when I assure him, that my clothes were in my first journeys so offensive, that in a post-chaise I could not bear the windows

Sect. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 9

---

drawn up; and was therefore often obliged to travel on horse-back. The leaves of my memorandum-book were often so tainted, that I could not use it till after spreading it an hour or two before the fire: and even my antidote, a vial of vinegar, has, after using it in a few prisons, become intolerably disagreeable. I did not wonder that in those journeys many gaolers made excuses; and did not go with me into the felons wards.*

From hence any one may judge of the probability there is against the health and life of prisoners, crowded in close rooms, cells, and subterraneous dungeons, for fourteen or sixteen hours out of the four and twenty. In some of those caverns the floor is very damp: in others there is sometimes an inch or two of water j and the straw, or bedding is laid on such floors, seldom on barrack bedsteads. Where prisoners are not kept in under-ground cells, they are often confined to their rooms, because there is no court belonging to the prison, which is the case in most city and town gaols: or because the walls round the yard are ruinous, or too low for safety: or because the gaoler has the ground for his own use. Prisoners confined in this manner, are generally unhealthy. Some gaols have no fnvers j and in those that have, if they be not properly attended to, they are, even to a visitant, offensive beyond expression: how noxious then to people constantly confined in those prisons !'

One cause why the rooms ih some prisons are so close, is perhaps the window-tax,: which the gaolers hare to pay:

I le*r» from a Letter to Sir Robert Ladbroke, punted in 1771, page it, that “Dr. Hales, Sir John Pringle, and others have observed, that air, corrupted and putrified, is of such a subtile and powerful nature, as to rot and dissolve “ heart or oak; and that the walls of buildings have been impregnated with this “ poisonous matter for years together.”

-f- An act made in Ireland the 3d year of his present Majesty, " for better preventing the severities, ." has the following ctaofe: “ Whereas many infectious disorders are daily produced by the confinement of numbers in close prisons, whereunto there Is no back-yard adjoining, and the lives of his Majesty's “ subjects are endangered by the bringing of prisoners into public streets for air j* “ be it enacted — that every grand jury at the assizes or quarter sessions — may be enabled, and they are hereby required and directed, to contract either by lease, “ or to ptirchafe a piece of ground next adjoining the gaol, or as near as conveniently can be had thereto, and cause to be erefled necestiiry houses, and a wall “ sufficient for the security of the said prisoners,”

Sewers.

Moral*.

Lunatics.

10 GENERAL VIEW OF

this tempts them to stop the windows, and stifle their prisoners.*

[Bedding.]

In many gaols, and in most bridewells, there is no allowance of bedding or straw for prisoners to sleep on; and if by any means they get a little, it is not changed for months together, so that it is almost worn to dust. Some lie upon rags, others upon the bare floors. When I have complained of this to the keepers, their justification has been, “ The county allows no straw; “ the prisoners have none but at my cost.”

The evils mentioned hitherto affe£l the health and life of prisoners: I have now to complain of what is pernicious to their morals; and that is, the confining all forts of prisoners together: debtors and felons; men and women; the young beginner and the old offender: and with all these, in some counties, such as are guilty of misdemeanors only; who should have been committed to bridewell, to be corrected by diligence and labour;but for want of food, and the means of procuring it in those prisons, are in pity sent to such county gaols as afford these offenders prison-allowance.

Few prisons separate men and women in the day-time. In some counties the gaol is also. the bridewell: in others those prisons are contiguous, and the court common. There the petty, offender is committed for instruction to the most profligate. In some gaols you fee (and who can see it without pain ?) boys of twelve or fourteen eagerly jiftening to the (lories told by practised and experienced villains, of their adventures, successes, stratagems, and escapes.

---

[Lunatics.]

I must here add, that in some few gaols are confined idiots and lunatics.† These serve for sport to idle visitants at assizes, and other times of general resort. The insane, where they

* This is also the case in many work-houses and farm-houses, where the poor and the labourer are lodged in rooms that have no light, nor fresh air; which may be a cause of our peasants not having the healthy ruddy complexions one used to see so commonly twenty or thirty years ago. The difference has often struck me in my various journeys.

† Many of the bridewells are crowded and offensive, because the rooms which were designed for prisoners are occupied by lunatics. See Irish Act, the 3d of George III. p. 478.

Sect. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 11

are not kept separate, disturb and terrify other prisoners. No care is taken of them, although it is probable that by medicines, and proper regimen, some of them might be restored to their senses, and to usefulness in life.

---

I am ready to think, that none who give credit to what is contained in the foregoing pages, will wonder at the havock made by the gaol fever. From my own observations in 1773 Gaot and 1774,1 was fully convinced that many more were destroyed F*T“* by it, than were put to death by all the public executions in the kingdom.* This frequent effect of confinement in prison seems generally understood, and (hews how full of emphatical meaning is the curse of a severe creditor, who pronounces his debtor's doom to rot in gaol. I believe I have learned the full import of this sentence, from the vast numbers who, to my certain knowledge, some of them before my eyes, have perished in our gaols.

But the mischief is not confined to prisons. Not to mention now the number of Jailors, and of families in America, that have been infected by transports} since this mode of punishment is by a late act suspended — multitudes catch the distemper by going to their relatives and acquaintance in the gaols: many others from prisoners discharged: and not a few in the courts of judicature. t:

In Baker's Chronicle, page 353, that historian mentioning the assize held in Oxford castle 1577 (called from its fatal consequence the black ajfixe) informs us, that “ all who were present died within forty hours: the lord chief baron, the

I have a Table printed from a large copper-plate, 1772, by Sir Stephen Theodore Jansion, shewing the number of malefactors executed in London for the twenty-three preceding years; and the crimes for which they differed. 1 will give an abridgment of it in a table at the end of the book.* In It win be Teen, that the total number of executions in London for those twenty-three year*, was 678;the annual average is between 29 and 30. -I leave to other* the difeuffion of the questions, whether those executions were too numerous ? whether all the crimes for which they were inflicted, were deserving of death ? And it may be left to any one to judge, whether, including debtors and petty offenders, the number of those that died In the several London prisons of the gaol fever, docs not exceed the number of those that were executed annually during that time. I have not the number of executions in all the counties, but am well allured it falls dill much shorter of the number that perished in prisons.

12 GENERAL VIEW OF

“sheriff, and about three hundred more.” Lord chancellor Bacon ascribes this to a disease brought into court by the prisoners; and Dr. Mead is of the same opinion.

The first of these two authors, Lord Bacon, observes, that “ the most pernicious infection next the plague, is the smell “ of the jail;when the prisoners have been long and close “ and nastily kept: whereof we have,our,experience “ twice or thrice; when both the judges that fat upon the jail, “ and numbers of those who attended the business, or were “ present,- sickened upon it and died.”

At the Lent assize in Taunton, 1730, Tome prisoners who were brought thither from Ivelchester gaol, infected the court: and lord chief baron Pengelly; Sir James Sheppard, sergeant;John Pigot, Esq. sheriff, and some hundreds besides, died of the gaol distemper. At Axminster, a little town in Devonshire, a prisoner discharged from Exeter gaol in 1755, infected his family with that disease; of which two of them died; and many others in that town afterwards. The numbers that were carried off by the same malady in London in 1750, two judges, the lord mayor, one alderman, and many of inferior rank, are too well known to need the mentioning further particulars.

Sir John Pringle observes, that “jails have often been the cause of malignant fevers;” and he informs us, that in the late rebellion in Scotland, above 200 men of one regiment were infected with the jail fever, by some deserters brought from prisons in England.f

Dr. Linil, physician to the royal hospital at Haflar, near Portsmouth, shewed me in one of the wards a number of Tailors ill of the gaol fever, brought on board their ship by a man who had been discharged from a prison in London. The ship was laid up on the occasion. That gentleman, in his Essay on the Health of Seamen, asserts, that “ The source of infection to “ our armies and fleets are undoubtedly the jails; we can “ often trace the importers of it directly from them. It often “ proves fatal in impressing men on the hasty equipment of a “ fleet. The first English fleet sent last war to America, lost

Natural History, Exp. 914. f Observations 00 the Diseases of the Army, p. 196, and 47. X Page 307.

Sect. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 13

« by it above 2000 men.” In another place he affurcs us, that “ the feeds of infection were carried from the guard-ships into our squadrons — and the mortality, thence occasioned, was “greater than by all other diseases or means of death put together.”

It were easy to multiply instances of this mischief; but those which have been mentioned are, I presume, sufficient to {hew, even if no mercy were due to prisoners, that the gaol distemper is a national concern of no small importance.

The general prevalence and spread of wickedness in prisons, Victors and abroad by the discharged prisoners, will now be as easily accounted for, as the propagation of disease. It is often said,

“ A prison pays no debts j” I am sure it may be added, thqt a prison mends no morals. Sir John Fielding, in his Plan preventing Robberies, observes, that “ a criminal discharged —

“ generally by the next sessions, after the execution of his comrades, becomes the captain of a gang of his ovyn railing: ” — improved, no doubt, in skill by the company he kept in gaol. And petty offenders who are committed to bridewell for a year or two, and spend that time, not in hard labour, but in idleness and wicked company, or are sent for that time to county gaols, generally grow desperate, and come out fitted for the perpetration of any villainy. I fcritple not to affirm, that half the robberies committed in and about London, arc planned in the prisons by that dreadful assemblage of criminals and the number of idle people who visit them. How contrary this to the intention of our laws with regard to these offenders; which certainly is to correct and reform them

Inffead of which, their confinement doth notoriously promote and increase the very vices it was designed to suppress. Multitudes of young creatures, committed for some trifling offence, are totally ruined there. If it were the wish and aim of magistrates to effect the destruction present and future of young delinquents, they could not devise a more effectual method, than to confine them so long in our prisons, those feats and seminaries (as they have been very properly called) of idleness and every vice.

Fa it5,

shall

14 GENERAL VIEW OF

Shall these irregularities, the sources of misery disease and wickedness, be endured in a nation cr-tbrztsd for rood sense a.vi h\rrar<: *y; and who from th*fir principles, d* treat one of prisoner* w;rh tenderness and generosity; I me2n pr i'/Krt of war. These have provision in plenty; some to spare and (ell to the foie.ers on guard: *we frequentlr law the r startd allowance hung up for their inflection. Some of;foM had brge area* for them to walk in; and at night #>ery man had a hammock to himself. It is the farthest lb ing in the world from my wish to deprive captives of any one of these benefits — I am only desirous of seeing the same humanity shewn to our own countrymen in distress; so that a confident and uniform practice may prove our benevolence to be a firm and steady principle; and that those who are cen-(briout may find no occasion for aferibing our kind usage of foreigner* to a less amiable motive.

Here it will be said, prisoners of war are not felons, nor yet debtor*; and government is sometimes, at the end of a war, re-imbursed the expense of maintaining the m. This latter I believe it farit} and the former is true without dispute: we do not look upon foreign enemies, nor they upon us,f as delinquents:

---

* I am now speaking of the practice last war. The daily allowance to six prisoners was,

Nine pounds of bread,

Four pounds and a half of beef.

Three pints of pease, four days in a week.

Six quarts of beer.

On Friday they had not the beef; but a pound and half of butter instead of it.

On board the men of war, indeed, they were upon short allowance.

---

I must not be understood to mean here a compliment to the French. How they treat English prisoners of war, I knew by experience in 1756;when a Lifboa packet (the Hanoves) In which 1 went passenger, in order to make the tour of Portugal, was taken by a French privateer. Before we reached Bred, I differed the extremity of third, not having for above forty hours one drop of waterj nor baldly a moifel of food. In the castle at Bred, I lay six nights upon draw: and oldsrving how cruelly my countrymen were used there, and at Morlaix, whither I was cat 1 led next 1 during the two months I was at Carhaix upon parole, I corresponded with the English prisoners at Bred, Morlaix, and Dinnan: at the lad of those towns were several of our ship's crew, and my servant. 1 had sufficient evidence of their being treated with such barbarity, that many hundreds had pcilihcd i and that thiuy-tlx were buried in a hole at Dinnan in one day. When

1 can.e

Sect. I. DISTRESS* IN PRISONS. i$

quests: we cut one another to pieces in battle, but when that is over we grow cool and compassionate. I grant there is a material difference in the circumstances of foreign and domtftic prisoners, but there is pone in their nature: debtors and felons, as well as hostile foreigners, are and by men they ought to be treated as men.

Those gentlemen who, when they are told of the misery which our prisoners suffer, content themselves with saying.

Let them take care to keep out, prefaced perhaps, with an angry

prayer, seem not duly sensible of the favour of Providence which distinguishes them from the sufferers: they do not remember that we are required to imitate our gracious Heavenly Parent, who is “ kind to the unthankful and the evil.* They also forget the vicissitudes of human affairs; the unexpected changes to which all men are liable j and that those whose circumstances are affluent, may in time be reduced to indigence, and become debtors and prisoners.

But it may be said, enough of the declamatory kind has been written by others. Much it is true, has been written: yeti beg leave to transcribe a few lines from a celebrated author, which may be thought to come under that description. After representing the calamitous case of prisoners, he goes on to this purpose, “ The misery of gaols is not half their evil; they are “ filled with every corruption which poverty and wickedness “ can generate between them;with all the shameless and profligate enormities that can be produced by the impudence of “ ignominy, the rage of want, and the malignity of despair.

“ In a prison the awe of the public eye is loft, and the power “ of the law is spent; there are few fears, there are noblufhes.

I came to England, still on parole, J made known to the of of Tick and wounded Teamen, the sundry particulars; which gained their attention, and thanks. Remonstrance was made to the French court: our sailors had redress; and those that were in the three prisons mentioned above, were brought home In the firfk carte] ships. A Lady from Ireland, who married in France, had bequeathed In trust with the magistrates of St. Maloes, sundry charities; one of which was a penny a day to every English prisoner of war in Dinnan. This was duly paid; and saved the lives of many brave and useful men. Perhaps what I (offered on this occadon, increased my sympathy with the unhappy people, whose case is the subject of this book,

16 BAD CUSTOMS.

u The lewd inflame the lewd, the audacious harden the audacious. Every one fortifies himself as he can again# his own sensibility, endeavours to practise on others the arts which are practised on himself; and gains the kindness of his “ afibciates by funilitude of manners.”*

Besides the grievances already mentioned; there are several had customt in gaols, and relating to them, which aggravate the distress of prisoners. I shall enumerate these diltin#ly» yet concisely.

SECTION II.

BAD CUSTOMS IN PRISONS.

A CRUEL custom obtains in mo# of our gaols, which is that of the prisoners demanding of a new comer garnish, footings or (as it is called in some London gaols) chummage. “ Pay or /trip,” are the fatal words. I say fatal9 for they are so to some; who having no money, are obliged tQ give up part of their scanty apparel; and if they have no bedding or straw to sleep on, contract diseases, which I have known to prove mortal.f

The Idler, No. 3S.

+ “ In the year 1750, Nicholas Bennet, Joseph Robinson, John Head and “ George Taverner, were indi£led at the Old Bailey for robbing John Berrisford of two half-guineas, two sixpences, and two half-pence, in New Prison under u the pretence of garnish, which fa& being plainly proved, they were all found “ guilty of an assault and robbery; and to deter others from the infamous and inhuman prafiice of taking the money, and if they had none, of Gripping poor u prisoners that were upon any account committed to prison, so that often-time* “ they have perished for want of cloathing and necessaries, they received sentence “ of death,” Burton's New View of London, page 468,

Sect. II. BAD CUSTOMS. 17

In many gaols, to the garnish paid by the new comer, those who were there before make an addition; and great part of the following night is often spent in riot and drunkenness. The gaoler or tapster finding his account in this practice, generally answers questions concerning it with reluctance. Of the garnish which I have set down to sundry prisons, I often had my information from prisoners who paid it. But I am aware that the sum is sometimes varied by fcts of succeeding prison* ers, and the different circumstances of a new comer. In forae gaols, if a felon can pay the debtor's garnish (which is commonly more than that of the felons) he is entitled to partake of the garnish paid afterwards by new-come debtors. In some places, this demand has been lately waved: in others, strictly prohibited by the magistrates.

Gaming in various forms is very frequent: cards, dice, fkit- Gamjnc. ties, Missisippi and Portobello tables, billiards, fives, tennis,

&c. In the country the three first are nioft common; and especially cards. There is scarce a county gaol but is furnished with them: and one can seldom go in without seeing prisoners at play. In London, all the forts that I have named are in use. I am not an enemy to diverting exercise: yet the riot, brawling, and profaneness, that are the usual consequences of their play; the circumstances of debtors gaming away the property of their creditors, which I know they have done in some prisons to a considerable amount; accomplishing themselves in the frauds of gamblers, who, if they be not themselves prisoners, are sure to haunt where gaming is practised; hindering their fellow-prisoners who do not play from walking in the courts while they do, of which inconvenience I have heard them complain: these seem to me cogent reasons for prohibiting all kinds of gaming within the walls of a prison.

Loading prisoners with heavy irons, which make their walk- Uohs. ing, and even lying down to flecp, difficult and painful, is another custom which I cannot but condemn. In some county gaols the women do not escape this severity: but in London they do: and therefore it is not necessary in the country. The practice must be mere tyranny; unless it proceed from avarice; which I rather suspect; because county gaolers do sometimes grant difpen fat ions, and indulge their prisoners, men as well as

BAD CUSTOMS.

women, with what they call “ the choice of irons,” if they will pay for it.

The author of the Letter to Sir Robert Ladbroke on Prisons (particularly on Newgate, which was then to be rebuilt) cites in page 79, the opinion of Lord Coke, Horn's Mirror of fujl'tce, &c. against this oppression; and adds afterwards, “ The learned editor of Hale's H'tjlory of the Pleas of the Crown “ likewise declares, that fetters ought not to be used, unless there is just reason to fear an escape, as where the prisoner <c is unruly, or makes an attempt to that purpose; otherwise, notwithstanding the common practice of gaolers, it seems altogether unwarrantable, and contrary to the mildness and c‘ humanity of the laws of England, by which gaolers are forbid to put their prisoners to any pain or torment.”

The Gentlemen of the Gaol-C, who distinguished themselves by an accurate and zealous inquiry into the abuses pra<ftifed by gaolers;* in their Report concerning the Fleet prison, 20th March 1728, after mentioning a petition presented to the judges by one who had been put in irons by the Wardens, informs us, that the judges reprimanded the wardens, and declared, that “ a gaoler could not answer the ironing of a

man before he was found guilty of a crime.” — To the plea which gaolers use in defence of this practice, that “ It is necessary for safe custody,'* an answer may be given in the words of lord chief justice King (afterwards lord chancellor) to the wardens of the same prison, when he forbade dungeons, which they had made use of That judge , “ they might raise

Tills Committee is celebrated by Thomson, in the following lines of His Winter, 340, ice. edit. 1738.

----- Can I forget the generous few.

Who, touch'd with human woe, redreflive fought Into the horrors of the gloomy jail

Unpitied, and unheard, where misery moans;

Where sickness pines; ——

Hail Patriot Band ! who, scorning secret fcom, When Justice, and when Mercy led the way, Dragg'd the detected mopfters into light,

Wrench'd from their hand Oppression's iron rod.

Much still untouch'd remains-----

Much is the Patriot's weeding hand requir'd.

their

Sect. II. BAD CUSTOMS. 19

their walls higher, &c.”*See the Report of the same Committee. To what lord King suggested of the walls> one

might presume to add — The number of turnkeys should be increased in proportion to the number of prisoners.

The Marquis Beccaria, in his Essay on Crimes and Punishments, page 75, observes that “ Imprisonment being only the “ means of securing the person of the accused, until he be “ tried — ought — to be attended with as little severity as possible.” The distress occasioned by chains is increased by

Varying the towns where quarter sessions and assizes are held: so that prisoners have to walk in irons ten or fifteen miles to their trial; and sometimes to towns that have no prison, where numbers of both sexes are shut up together for many days and nights in one room. This occasions such confusion and dljlrefsy and such Ihrieks and outcries, as can be better conceived than described. Surely prisoners ought to be conveyed in carts; or else committed at first to the town where the fdfions or assizes are to be held. And in that town a proper prison ought to be built.

Gaol delivery is in some counties but once a year. What reparation can be made to a poor creature for the misery he has suffered by confinement in a prison near twelve months before a trial, in which perhaps he is at last declared by his country not guilty

The judicious Marquis, whom I quoted above, asserts, that “ Privation of liberty being a punishment, ought not to “ be inflicted before condemnation, but for as short a time as “ possible.” And in cases of guilt, his doctrine is, “ The “ more immediately after the commission of a crime, a punishment is inflicted, the more just and useful it will be.” This sentiment is illustrated by a variety of acute remarks in the chapter of the Advantage of immediate Punishment.

If the daring character of our felons should seem, after all, to make it necessary to confine them in irons, it would be right, at least, to bring them into court for their trial without irons. A sensible writer observes, that “ It is the law of the land, and certainly ever hath been so, that a prisoner ought not at “ any time to be charged with fetters;unless the jailer be conftrair.cd to have “ recourse to them by the altual necessity of safe custody.”

Principles of Penal Law, p. 1S7.

*9

Vakyikg

Towks.

Gaol

Dkli-

VEar.

23

Clerks Of Assize,

ttc.

BAD CUSTOMS.

One cause of gaol delivery being so seldom, is placet

the expense of entertaining the judges and their retinue. At Hull they used to have the assize but once in seven years. Peacock a murderer Was in prison there near three years: before his trial the principal witness died; and the criminal was acquitted. They now have it once in three years.

Although acquitted prisoners are by the late act in their favour*cleared of gaolers fees;they are (till subject to a similar demand made by clerks of assize and clerks of the peace; t and detained in prison several days after their acquittal — at assize, till the judges — at quarter sessions, till the justices of peace leave the town;in order to obtain those fees, which the gentlemen say are not cancelled by the act. And yet the express words of it are, Acquitted prisoners “ shall be immediately set at large in open court.” It is evident then, that all fees of the commitment in respect to the prisoner, are by this act totally abol iftied.

Since the said a St,the clerks of assize in some circuits have started a new demand upon the gaoler, for the judges certificate of acquitment; viz. six shillings and eight pence for the first prisoner acquitted; and a shilling for each of the rest: or. two (Millings for every one. I know some of these gentlemen do not make any such demand. Where it is made, some gaolers refuse to pay it; others submit murmuring. I have copies of two receipts given by the clerk of the Western circuit to the gaolers of Exeter and Salisbury.J

14th George III.

| See the Table of the Fees of the Clerks of Assize at the end of the book. The Clerk of the Peace in one county demands as follows t For larceny and acquitted, £1 s 7: 0

Petty larceny, 1: 8: 4

Whipped publicly, is 3: 4

Bastardy, o: 17 s 4

J One of them Is as follows.

« Received 1 April 1775 of Mr* Sherry gaoler one pound eight shillings and “ 8 pence for his certificate entitling him to his gaol fees for the county of Devon

tper* |«H

« Clerk of the Assize.” The gaoler told me this was for twenty-three acquitted prisoners.

I was

Sect. II. BAD CUSTOMS. 21

I was informed at Durham* that judge Gould, at the assize 1775, laid a fine of fifty pounds on the gaoler for detaining some acquitted prisoners, for the fees of the clerk of assize. But upon the intercession of the bishop (proprietor of the gaol) the fine was remitted; and the prisoners set at large: the judge ordering the clerk of assize to explain to him in London the foundation of his demand.

One pretence for detaining acquitted prisoners is, that c< It is possible other indictments may be laid against them before the judge leaves the town.” I call it a , because

it is often waved upon paying the fees. Another is, the gaoler tells you, He takes them back to knock off their irons.”

But this may be done in court: in London they have an engine or block, by the help of which they take off the irons with ease in a minute or two; the machine is brought into court, and the acquitted prisoner is immediately discharged.

If, according to what I formerly proposed, prisoners were tried out of irons, this pretext would be entirely removed.

Clerks of assize, and of the peace, ought most certainly to have a consideration for their service to the public: and I do not wish to lessen many other emoluments of those gentlemen.

The only thing I complain of is, what I am led to by my subject, the demand that is made directly or indirectly upon acquitted prisoners.

Some gaolers live dislant from the prison, in houses that do Gaolers

not belong to the county. Non-residence is not consistent with the attention that is requisite for securing the prisoners; and preserving good order, cleanliness, &c.

Debtors crowd the gaols (especially those in London) with Wive* their wives and children. There are often by this means, ten cIul-

or twelve people in a middle-sized room; increasing the danger »* of infection, and corrupting the morals of children. This point ought (no doubt) to be treated with tenderness. Man and wife should not be totally separated in the day-time; but no women, unless prisoners, should ever be permitted to continue so much as one night in any prison; debtors wives only excepted, when their husbands are dangerously ill. The little probability there is of an industrious woman being of much service to her family in a prison: the number of men in the same room; and of

Gaol.s Pkivati I' I.O-TikTY,

NUMBER OF PRISONERS.

lewd women admitted under the name of wives;* prove that this affair needs some regulation.

Some gaols are private property: in these the keepers, protected by the proprietors, and not so subject as other gaolers to the cor.troul of magistrates, are more apt to abuse their prisoners, when a temptation offers. One of these gaols some years ago was quite out of repair, and unsafe; and the proprietor not choosing to repair it, the gaoler to confine his prisoners took a method, that to all who saw it was really shocking. Some years before that, a prisoner in another of these gaols was tormented with thumb-ferews. The grand jury took up the case, and remonstrated to the proprietor; but in vain. I had the account from a worthy friend of mine, who was upon that very jury.

Of the complaints which I have hitherto made only in general terms, I shall give instances in the account of particular prisons. To that account I refer, for evidence and sass.

NUMBER OF PRISONERS.

In the spring 1776, I summed up carefully the total number of prisoners in the sundry prisons. My list was as follows:

1. In Middlesex, i.e. London and Westminster; together with Debtors Felons &c. Ferry Offenders. Total.

three prisons in Southwark, viz. the King's Bench, Marshalsea, and Borough Compter, 1274 228 I94 1696

2. In the other thirty-nine counties of England, 752 617 459 1828

3. In the twelve counties of Wales, 67 27 94

4. In city and town gaols. 344 122 — 466

2437 994 653 4084

Petty offenders in the Welsh county gaols, blank in the third column, third line, are included in the preceding number of felons See. 27: most of the gaols in those counties being also the county bridewells.

Sect. II. NUMBER OF PRISONERS. 23

Petty offenders, blank in third column, fourth line, are included in the number 459 of petty offenders in the thirty-nine county gaols; and in the number 122, second column, fourth line.

All that were in the county gaols besides , I have reckoned in the list of felons &c. although many were petty offenders and fines.

In the third column, under petty offenders are included a few felons occasionally committed to bridewells,

I have found by carefully examining sundry gaols, that upon an average, two dependants (by which I mean wives and children only*) may be assigned to each man in prison. My computation is confirmed by the account which we have from the Benevolent Society at the Thatched October 9th,

1776, as follows. Since their institution in 1772,

Discharged debtors, 3980

Who had wives, 2*93

children, 6288

Persons immediately benefited, 12461

And by the account from the Br Society, who in their list published May 31ft, 1775, have

Persons discharged, 73

Their wives, 45

children, 120

Total, 238

Each of these totals is considerably larger than the resp&ive products of multiplication by my rule: the first exceeds by 521, the latter by 19. There is indeed commonly a surplus among debtors; but a deficiency among felons &c. reduces the average of dependants to that which I stated.

If then to the total number in England and Wales, that is, 4084

You add twice that number of dependants, 8168

The number of the distressed is, 12252

I do not include parentt,many of whom I have seen sorrowfully attending at prison*, and deeply sharing in the distress arising from the confinement of their children.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

It appears from the foregoing table of prisoners, that their number has been greatly magnified by conjectural computations;but surely the real number, with that of those partaking their distress, is an object well worthy the farther attention of the legislature.

It may afford some satisfaction to my readers, to fee at one view the number of prisoners in the counties of England and Wales, in 1779. A table for this purpose shall be inserted at the end of the book*

SECTION III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS

IN THE STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT

OF PRISONS.

HOWEVER sanguinary the wish of an angry creditor may be, when he arrests and imprisons his debtor; there is no doubt but every one who listens, not to his passions, but to reason, mufl know, and will own, that it is a flagrant crime to take away the life of a man for debt: and as to felony, a gaol is not designed for the final punishment even of that; but for the safe cujhdy of the accused to the time of trial; and of

convicts till a legal sentence be executed upon them.* The laws of England do not suffer private executions. No condemned

“ Humane treatment debtors have a claim toj nor can we consistently with any good principle, either of morals or government, refuse the same to persons u accused, or even to the most atrocious convicts.” Principles of Penal Law, p. 5a.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 25

malefactor may be secretly put to death; nor murdered in a prison directly or indirectly: much less ought those to be destroyed there whose sentence does not affect their life. Their destruction is not only unjust; it is inconsistent with prudence and found policy. They might no doubt be useful at home or abroad; if proper care were taken in prison, to keep them healthy and fit for labour: but certain it is, that many of those who survive their long confinement, are by it rendered incapable, of working. Some of them are grievously affected with scorbutic distempers; others have their toes mortified,* or quite rotted from their feet; many instances of which I have seen.

If one who has turned king's evidence, or has been barely acquitted upon trial, terrified by his narrow escape, seeks for honest employment; he is commonly such a sickly miserable object, that no one will set him to work. That, I believe, is the principal cause of his being rejected; for there are several forts of labour that require but little confidence: yet the poor acquitted prisoner shall go from door to door asking for work, in vain. Is it not to be lamented, that every spark of good intention, instead of being cherished, should be thus extinguished? And that the penitent should by an almost irresistible necessity be driven again, though reluctant, to the practice which soon brings him back to his former mansion; and shortens a wretched life, that might have been, that fain would have been, an useful one

In order to redress these various evils, the first thing to be taken into consideration is the prison ttfelf. Many county gaols and other prisons are so decayed and ruinous, or, for other reasons, so totally unfit for the purpose, that new ones must be built in their stead. Others are very incommodious, but may be improved upon the ground about them, which is occupied by the keeper, or not used at all. Some need little

MdTrs. Stephenson and Randolf of Bristol, contractors for transport convicts, complained of this to Mr. Biggs, gaoler at Salisbury, in their letter to him Sept. 13, 1774. Sore feet prove very fatal. The mortality we met within “ oar tali ship, if repeated in this, will so forfeit os, that we shall never take*another. We toft an immense fom by them; and oar ship is detained to this«moment under quarantine.”

26 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

more than a thorough repair. In order to give what little assistance I can to those who must build a new county gaol, I will take the liberty to suggest what hath occurred to me upon this head, in hopes that some more skilful hand will undertake the generous and benevolent talk of carrying to perfection a scheme, of which I can only draw the outlines. I shall first say something of the

SITUATION.

A county gaol, and indeed every prison, should be built on a spot that is «/;*y, and if possible near a river, or brook. I have commonly found prisons situated near a r/wr, the cleanest and most healthy. They generally have not (they could not well have) subterraneous dungeons, which have been destructive to thousands: and by their nearness to running; water, another evil, almost as noxious, is prevented, that is, the stench of sewers.

I said a gaol should be near a stream; but I must annex this caution; that it be not so near as that cither the house or yard shall be within the reach of floods. This circumstance was so little thought of at Appleby in Westmorland, when their new gaol was first building, that I saw the walls marked from nine inches to three feet high by floods.

If it be not practicable to build near a stream, then an eminence should be chosen: for as the walls round a prison must be so high as greatly to obstruct a free circulation of air, this inconvenience should be lessened by a rising ground: and the prison should not be surrounded by other buildings, nor built in the middle of a town or city.

PLAN.

The annexed engraving represents such a plan for a prison as, according to my ideas, unites the greatest advantages with regard to health, order, and security. By the assistance of the

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 27

references, it will explain itself better than can be done by a verbal description. I shall only Subjoin a few general remarks on Some particulars in the structure.

That part of the building which is detached from the walls, and contains the men-felons ward, may be Square, or re&an-gular, raised on arcades, that it may be more airy, and leave A«cadzs. under it a dry walk in wet weather. Wards over arcades are also best for safety, for I have found that escapes have been most commonly effected by undermining cells* and dungeons. If the felons should find any means to break out of this raised ward, they will still be stopt by the wall of the court, which is the principal Security; and the walls of the wards need not then be of that great thickness they are generally built.

I wish to have so many small rooms or cabins f in this ward, that each criminal may sleep alone. % If it be difficult to prevent their being together in the day-time, they should by all means be Separated at night. Solitude and Silence are favourable to reflection; and may possibly lead them to repentance.

Privacy and hours of thoughtfulness are necessary for those who must Soon leave the world ;§ and in the Old Newgate there were fifteen cells for persons in this Situation, which are dill left Handing, with the design of annexing them to the new building. The like provision for such as return to society cannot be less needful. Bishop Butler, one of the writers cited in the note, affirms that it is much more so, “ Since it must be

When I went into Horsham gaol with the keeper, we saw a heap of ftonea and rubbish. The felons had been two or three days undermining the foundation of their room, and a general escape was intended that night. We were but just in time to prevent it; for it was almost night when wc went in Our lives were at their mere/: but (thank God) they did not attempt to murder us, and rulh out.

of- These rooms should have double doors, one of them iron-latticed for the circulation of air.

J See the importance of this separation strongly urged in to Sir Robert

Ladbroie, printed for Oliver, 1771. See also a Sermon of bishop Butler

preached before thfc magistrates of London, April 14th, 1750, particularly page 20, See.And Mr. Hanway's 8th, 10th, and 2ad Letters in his book entitled

‘The Defers of Police the Cause of Immorality, Sec.

Yet how contrary to this is our practice ! Keepers have assured me, that they have made £5 a day after the condemnation of their prisoners.

<c acknow-

A

T orf

i

PH 0 ?C S Z D 11?? ?. 0 VI MINTS-

na.*'jc sx i^urur-ta c. *t c: V;. c.2 I m*i i-w *ttr: to "c: <p crim_ni-» Trails ar: -..: be n=r_:

: .: w *rr -t: r; fr: »~ a c £-: ~ij — c rc* 7;-.n»rr v tnow

-_ be #: c the K^rg.

r i tn*;_r a7r't~ r n-: p-t xmor.g

tvrr,

1- one

tj;- p-t is the wredn's wiuh

Vi'^re mere arc cyjoitc w n*: w> mry ir: --- mutters; rr ".ni tho-id Sc open all huy- I- im -eu-hior* wore there i: o->> be so rlei;doc lb: * — u tsr p.r.,.cxrs tu — .: woe to trop t: .* w-sd-wi with &nw. -

The ▼ teren-fiic'ns (hd >c cu.rc jiptss Trees the men .* S;: iC W'? CT.IT.lIlaJ.S from oid tod hurined ic.oirj. Each Ck*»ju i.)o tuve the.r om *rxc o. jli» hen;sciC tovir corn 2nd cmres ah f: rum: c.

Lverj court £L>uld be p.i^c-d w.th £at it'-ses for the more comm at.: woir.,r.£ it; ari have a e»d pump. or pipes laid *s, butt if ptfLbie: and the t-urrp and f r-rs ihoi-id be repaired at vsju a thrr need it; otherwise the ca: i> vr.li be erten-5 vt and mwhhei'ome, as I have alwtvs found them to be in

/bC* c* its. A fcill ft ream confront v running in the court is vtm evtra: it. In a room or feed near the pump or pipe, be a /-r: ht (as there is in county hospitals) to v'urr pr.joners that come in dirty, or grow cirty afterwards.^Ir ihou.d be filed every morning, and let cr: n the evening Sirovgi the fwers into the drains. There Cicuid also be a

Zj at act tcade is Ireland, «d of his prefem V1s}efty, it Is e»irv?d,«That ‘ rt- al r>-u tie'ear.er to be built, there ir.ay be di: linil apartments, for the men * ui<c w.*: «x; and tint al] gaolers, whose gaols will at pmmt admit ct fjch a ®*1) obliged to separate and keep apart the different faces.'*

f 14th George 11L Cap. XLLII.

-w‘ trretrlon as an evider.ee of the advantage of baths In prisons, that 1 v*v rj/vwt, n«.*umeet where persons supposed to be dead of tlx gaol fever, and vvir^v w. Itr t*riai, 00 being waihed with cold water, have thewn fcgns of iUs> <rtc. *sa vrjz recovered.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 29

copper in the shed, to heat a quantity of water sufficient to warm that in the bath;for washing those that are sickly. There should likewise be an: nothing so effectually destroys vermin in clothes and bedding, nor purifies them so thoroughly when tainted with infe&ian, as being a few hours in an oven moderately heated.

The infirmary or sick wards should be in the most airy part of the court, quite detached from the rest of the gaol, and raised on arcades. In the middle of the floor of each room there should be a grate of twelve or fourteen inches square, for a current of air;f covered with a shutter or hatch at night. The fame contrivance might also be convenient in the other wards. Besides the grate, it is necessary to have in the wards, but especially in those of the infirmary, hand-ventilators to fre(hen them every day. This machine is of excellent use when most wanted, and when the wind or fail-ventilator is of no service, that is, in calm weather. Dr. Hales, on the subject, page 12, shews that it will supply seventy-five tons of air in a minute.

The infirmary and (heds will not render the court unsafe, provided the walls have parapets, or small chevaux de

Debtors and felons should have wards totally separate; the peace, the cleanliness, the health and morals of debtors cannot be secured otherwise. The A£fc 22d and 23d Charles II. Chapter XX. requires this separation at night; that debtors may not be disturbed by the curses and other profane language of felons: “Be it enabled*, — That they shall be put, kept, and “ lodged separate and apart one from another, in distinct “ rooms.” These words do perhaps in the strict construction imply no more than nocturnal separation. But surely it is a far greater mischief for debtors to be annoyed and corrupted by the wicked conversation of felons all day long, than to be disturbed by it in the night-time. I am not designing to infer from hence, nor yet from the character of the Gentlemen who composed that parliament, that the act should be construed

See Dr. Lind's Essay on the Health of Seamen, p. 310 and 336.

+ Dr. Lettfom's successful method has proved the benefit of fresh air in putrid fevers. Sec his Mtiial Mcmtirt, p. 19, 57, 58, 6a, &c.

according

Oven.

Intir-

MART.

Ventt-

LATORS.

Sir ah a-TI ON or Debtors

AND

Felon 9,

3°

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

WOMC-

tHor»

WoMSK-

Debtors.

according to my view of the argument, or to what I conje&urer was their intention. I know it is wrong to explain laws by such a vague principle as the supposed spirit of them. But it seems to me necessary that there should be a total reparation. These different forts of prisoners are indeed generally separated at night. I do not recoiled more than one or two gaols where they lodged together, besides the Borough-Compter, and Clerkenwell bridewell. I muff add Tothillfields bridewell, where debtors are confined, since Westminster Gatehouse is taken down. Constant separation is desirable: the gaol will by that means be kept cleaner: and if the small pox, or the gaol fever, should infect one ward, the other at a distance may be free from it. This would also remove the objection that is now made against permitting debtors to work: that is, the danger of their furnishing felons with tools for mischief, or escape.

In the debtors ward there should be a day-room or kitchen;also a large work-Shop for such as are willing to work. Some few gaols have the latter; and in them I have seen basket-makers, shoe-makers, &c. employed in their several trades;preserving their habit of indudry, contributing to the ("import of their families, and lightening the burthen that by their imprisonment falls on the respective parishes.

Prisoners indicted for felony should not be compelled -to work. But I have heard many of them wishing the y might be permitted to earn something for their more comfortable support. In some few gaols they have this privilege, as at Exeter, Norwich, Ipswich, See.*

I had said in my former edition, that women-debtors should have a ward, a court, a pump. Sic. to themselves; and no communication should be allowed between the two sexes: but observing that there are so few women-debtors in prison (the number of whom may be seen in the table) I leave it to the consideration of the judices, whether a room or two in the gaoler's house may not be as convenient as a separate ward.

The debtors at York, Lincoln, Norwich, Ipswich, employ themselves in knitting and weaving purses, garters, nets, laces, See. This is an easy and amusing employment, ar. 3 might be established in any prison, even among felons, for the art may be learned in a week's time, and no dangerous instruments are necessary. But then they must have proper rooms and courts for their work.

T

3i

The ward for men-debtors should also be over arcades, and

placed on one side of the gaoler's house. This house should be in or near the middle cr the gaol, with windows to the felons and the debtors court. This would be a check on the prisoners to keep them in order; and would engage the gaoler to be attentive to cleanliness and constant washing, to prevent his own apartments from being offensive.

A chapel is necessary in a gaol. I have chosen for it what seems to me a proper situation. It should have a gallery for debtors or women; and the rest may be separated below. Bibles and prayer-books should be chained at convenient distances on each side: those who tear or otherwise damage them should be punished.

REGULATIONS.

Without a due attention to the economy and government of a prison, it is evident that no contrivance of structure can secure it from being the abode of wickedness, disease, and misery; I shall therefore offer a few hints for the better regulation of a gaol.

The first care mull be to find a good man for a gaoler; one that is honest, active, and humane. Such was Abel Dagge, who was formerly keeper of Bristol Newgate. I regretted his death, and revere his memory.

This officer must be sober himself, that he may, by example, as well as authority, restrain drunkenness, and other vices in his prison. To remove a strong temptation to the contrary, it is highly requisite that no gaoler, turnkey, or other servant be suffered to hold the tap; or to have any connexion, concern, or interest whatever in the sale of liquors of any kind. Gaolers who hold, or let, the tap, find their account in not only conniving at, but promoting drunkenness and midnight revels. What profligate and debauched company of both sexes, do we fee let into our gaols, that the tap may be kept running! Besides this, the gaoler's interest in the sale of liquors, may prompt him to be partial in his behaviour to his prisoners; to

treat

Dr btom Ward.

Chapel.

Gaoler.

3*

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

treat at leaf! with neglect, those who are poor and have nothing to spend;which is the case of far the greater number: while he shall caress dishonest debtors, who take ftielter in a prison, in order to live there in riot upon the property of their creditors.

I know that by the statute of yiA George II. a debtor has a right to send out of the gaol for liquor and other necessaries.*This is a very judicious provision; and very beneficial to prisoners, where they have the free ufc of it. But fbme gaolers there are, who find ways to restrain this privilege, for the profits of their tap: whereas if gaolers were prohibited from all concern in the sale of liquor, this would not only remove that check, and restore to prisoners the enjoyment of the liberty they are entitled to; but would also be the means of suppressing much intemperan and perhaps of entirely

abolishing garnish, as well as clubs or night associations.

That it is neccessary to deprive gaolers of all profits arising from the tap, I am convinced, not by mere speculation, but by what I have learned from conversation with gaolers themselves. I asked two of them, whom I found candid and intelligent, “ What they thought would be the most likely means of effecting a thorough reformation in gaols ? ” The answer I had from both, was to this purpose, “ Let no “ licences be granted for felling beer or wine in gaols: let it “ be made some other way worth our while to keep them.”1 Gaolers should have salaries proportioned to the trust and trouble; since no office, faithfully and administered,

better deserves an adequate encouragement: yet not so much as to raise them above attention to their duty, and the daily inspection of their gaols.

The Gaol-Committee, which I have mentioned before, in their

report of the Marshalsea prison, 14th May 1729, after enumerating many mischiefs which they found had been occasioned by the gaoler's holding or letting the tap, draw the following conclusion; “ This shews the inconveniency of the keepers “ having the advantage of the tap-house, since to advance the “ rent thereof, and to consume the liquors there vended, they

" At hi* free will and pleasure, to fend for, or to have brought to him —

at fenfonabic times in the day-time, any beer, ale, victuals, or any other

u necessary food,”

not

by

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

not only encourage riot and drunkenness, but also prevent “ the needy prisoner from being supplied by his friends with the meer necessaries of life, in order to increase an exorbitant “ gain to their tenants.”

When I was in Ireland (January 1775) I found, not without some surprise, that no liquors were fold in any of the prisons. Upon inquiry, I learned that there is an aS against it, made in the third year of his present Majesty.

No prisoner should be a turnkey. It is the gaoler's duty to inspect the wards himself every day, that he may fee they are clean, and not to leave this to servants. f He should open and unstop the windows, and order the bedding out to be aired, and the cribs to be taken out and washed, otherwise they will gather dirt, and answer no salutary end. The magistrates of GlasgowJ have expressly ordered that “ The gaoter every <4 morning and evening, at the opening of, and before the “ shutting up the prison, shall personally visit every room and place therein.”

He muff encourage and promote cleanliness. For this reason an old or infirm man should not be a gaoler: when that is the case, all is commonly dirty. He should be compassionate to the lick. If he is ordered to distribute the allowance, he must do justice to the county or city, and to his prisoners, by giving to the latter the full stated quantity.

The preamble run* thu*, “ Whereas many frauds anjl abuses have been committed by gaolers — brewing of drink, and baking of bread, which they oblige * their prisoners to take from them at their own rates — Be it enacted — that no gaoler or any person in trust for him, shall brew or bake in the gaol — or in any “ place — for sale, or keep any (hop for the felling of bread, or beer, or ale, or u other liquors, under the penalty of five pounds for every such offence.”

of- In my frft journeys many county gaolers excused themselves from going

with me into the felons' ward. In York cattle the felons told me once and again that the gaoler had not been in their ward for months. 1 would not have quoted a report from felons, if the turnkey, who was present, had not confirmed their testimony.

J I ought not here to omit my grateful acknowledgment of the politeness and civility of these Gentlemen, who, on my visit to the place in January 1775, did me the honour of presenting me with the freedom of the city, in 3 manner truly heritable and obliging.

D I have

33

# nf Mf*‘l Or fit ii,

(mn

La;*.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

I I'.ivt Lid &rr.r*, i pGr: L: /.: ': <: '3isce: rc*n

hr. priLr,.* Ht f-'_: c-iy r^l-r cr.: >xc, but be

2'/: .'^. F'.r tr.. rn.'.r., r“ cc 2. rr L»_;-c re a

i 'fr'tr.i: r. ir. -.cry ir-rii, a_'i ic*r-e of them

have* ixkr.va. ltcg d to rr.r, tl'_t .: b — z._i ii cibctrs wi» incc.t.pttiV.e w.th their c.*y as ee

I hed the pleisure to f.r.d a - irpolrte-i to rr.cit of the

county gaols; in co-.sequence of the ait xice the 13th of his present Mtj.fly. When th > exes Is szcir.t, it behoves magistrates not to take the nr.*: cl.rgvrr-cn who cdkrs his lkrvsce, without regarding his real character. They lhouii chcoie one who is in principle a Chrr'.lcn: who will not content himself with officiating in public; dj; will convene with the pr;Toners; admonish the profligate; exhort the thoughtkis; vif.t and comfort the sick; and make known to the condemned, that mercy which is revealed in the Gj'd.

In the Life of Bernard Gilpin, page 173, the writer, speaking of his labour?, informs us, that “ w hores er he came, he used “ to visit all the jails and places of confinement; few in the “ kingdom having at that time f any appointed minister. ” And by his affectionate address “ he is fa d to have reformed “ many very abandoned persons in those places.”

In some prisens where there is a chaplain appointed, no worship is fixed for Sunday: in some where that day is fixed, the chaplain, choosing his hours, comes sometimes too soon in the morning, sometimes between morning and evening

O7 o o

service, at the prisem rs dinner-time: in some there is no fixed day at all. It would be proper to have sermon and prayers once at lead; on the Lord's day: and prayers two fixed days in the week besides. And if a chapter of the Tijlanunt

1 he bad consequences of a contrary police I have often seen and lamented;particularly at Dublin Newgate.

| In the reign of Queen Mary, this faithful Jllinijler of the G'spel was to have hren a f.icrifice: but in his journey from Durham to London, where he expected to fuflrr, Iris leg was broken by a fall from his horse; and by that circumstance I'tuvidriHC favrd him from the fiery trial: for the bigotted Queen died before lib ict overy. In the next reign he was promoted to the rich living of Houghton hi Northumberland: and it was there he laboured, as is said above.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 35

were read daily in order by one of the prisoners to the rest, or by the gaoler, before the distribution of prison allowance, the time would not be mispent. The reader, if a prisoner, might be allowed small weekly pension. The gaoler should not, as some do, hinder any prisoner from attending divine service. He ought to remove every hindrance: and, on Sunday especially, no visitants should be admitted during that time. Visitants who are there, should go out or attend. Upon asking at more places than one, “ Why there were so few prisoners at prayers?” I have been answered, “ They are drinking with their friends.”* The gaoler should be constant at chapel with his prisoners; and set a good example for them to follow. The chaplain who officiates in the gaol may also officiate at the bridewell, where the distance will allow; and preach once a Sunday in each prison.

It perhaps will be said, that I propose a great deal of duty to these gentlemen. The act just recited allows a sum not exceeding fifty pounds a year for their services. Many counties have fixed that salary; but I should hope that clergymen might be found who would act from a much nobler motive, a regard to the most important interests of their fellow-creatures.

The late act for preserving the health of prisoners requires that

an experienced surgeon or apothecary be appointed to every gaol: a man of repute in his profession. His business is, in the first place, to order the immediate removal of the fiek to the infirmary. Their irons should be taken off; and they should have, not only medicines, but also diet suitable to their condition. He must diligently and daily visit them himself; not leaving them to journeymen and apprentices. He should con-stamly inculcate the necessity of cleanliness and fresh air; and the danger of crowding prisoners together. I need not add, that he must report to the justices at each quarter sessions, a Hate of the health of the prisoners under his care.f

I have heard some worthy clergymen lament the little succesj attending their labours in prisons, which they attributed to the sale of liquors, and tire want of m proper separation of the sexes.

f 1 am well informed that at Petersburgh, an officer of rank is obliged every Friday to visit the prisons, with a surgeon. He has a list of the prisoners, and fees each of them, and makes a report to the regency of their health, and the caie that is taken of them.

1

Surgeon.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

At Newgate there are commonly about two hundred prisoners. Here the danger to them, and to the city from them, is great. To this capital prison in the metropolis, the magistrates would, in my opinion, do well to appoint a a surgeon, and ap: thecary. One of the two latter to visit each

ward in the prison every day. The two Compters are near enough to be taken care of by the same gentlemen; and they need to be visited as constantly. This attention would, in all probability, prevent the spread of any infectious disease in those gaols; and filcncc county gaolers, who, when their prisons are infected, tell you (as I have often heard them) “ The distemper “ was brought from Newgate by prisoners removed from thence “ by habeas corpus

Tut. No prisoner should be subje<£t to any demand of fees. The gaoler should have a salary in lieu of them; and To should the turnkeys;their wages should not be included in the gaoler's salary: and not only their pay, but the number of them necessary for each prison, should be determined by the magistrates. Neither of those articles should be left to the interested appointment of a gaoler. If fees be not abolished, I am sure they should be reduced; and so should the chamber rents for master-side debtors. In this matter (of the chambers) another regulation is also needful; that is, no middle-sized room should have more beds than two. The bedding and other furniture should be specified as to articles and value. y*1 For common-f: de debtors there should be a ward entirely free:

they should not be subject to any demand of rent; as in many.prisons they are. Thcfc prisoners should either be alimented by their creditors without expense and delay; or have from the county the same allowance of every kind (at least) as felons: food, bedding, and medicine.

|n order to cleanliness, than which scarce any thing in the whole economy of a gaol is of more importance, every ward and room should be well feraped; and then washed with lime, fr/.c and water during the act of effervescence,* at least twice

This is called lime-white, although whiting is not an ingredient In it. White-washing it not only proper for cleanliness, but attempts to escape are nunc ealily discovered in white than in dirty walls,

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 37

a year; just after the Lent and Summer assize. Each ward and room should be {wept, and waftied, every,by the respective inhabitant; and sometimes with hot vinegar. Idle gaolers affect to excuse their negligence in this respect, by pretending that daily washing would make the rooms too damp, and endanger the health of prisoners. This is mere pretence: the effect is directly contrary. There is not in England a prison more healthy, considering the number of prisoners of the lowest fort, than Tothtllfields bridewell; where the rooms are washed every day. The prisoners do the work by turns: and the healthiness of the prison is a demonstration, that no inconvenience, but great benefit, is the consequence.* In Newgate, the prisoner who sweeps the ward has a double allowance of bread. Every prisoner should be obliged to wa/li his hands and face before he comes for his daily allowance; and to keep himself as neat as circumstances will admit. I

have

From the general practice of foreigners in building their prisons near the water, It seems, that they were convinced of the bad effects of offensive drains, and of the necessity of cleanliness} and they had no apprehensions of bad consequen-. ces arising from such a situation. Dr. Heberden has expressed his sentiments on this subjefb in the Medical TrarpSiisns, p. 511, 524. “ In England few make “ any doubt of the great danger attending wet rooms. — Is this opinion founded upon experience, or is it a prejudice, which has been suffered to grow up and “ get strength merely for want of being examined ? If we inquire into the arguments in favour of this notion, wc shall hardly find any other, than the random conjectures of the sick about the cause of their illness;or than their artfully substituting this origin of it instead of some other, which they are unwilling to own. — The air from rivers and from the sea is probably more replenished with “ vapors, than inland countries cleared of their woods; yet the most celebrated “ of aniient physicians recommended the bank of a running river for the situation “ of a house, on account of its peculiar healthiness; and many invalids are sent “ by the modern physicians to the sea side, only for the benefit of the sea air.”

J- Nothing can be more unreasonable than the pretences used among to justify inattention and negligence. 1 cannot help taking this occasion to add the following authorities on this subject. All unprejudiced persons mud acknowledge the absolute necessity of fresh air and clea to preserve and promote health. To this purpose Dr. Mead writes, in his concerning

* Nothing approaches so near to the first original of contagion, as air pent up,

loaded with damps, and corrupted with the filthiness that proceeds from animal todies.Our common pripns afford us an instance of this, in which very few

escape, what they call the^W fever, which is always attended with a degree of malignity in proportion to the cUfcness and of the place. And it would*Page 41, &c. 3<f edit. 1720,

certainly

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS

have said before, thrre should be plenty of water in a prii'on; and need not add now, that prisoners should constantly have free and easy access to it.

Every prisoner who comes to caol dirty, should be washed in the cold or warm bath; and his clothes should be put into the oven, in a sack on a pair of iron dogs. He should be provided with coarse washing clothes to wear while his own are thus purifying: * washing clothes should be kept ready in the gaol for this purpose. Each prisoner should have a clean shirt once a week. There should be in each ward a towel on a roller clean every day. Pails, mops, brooms, (bap, vinegar, and fuel for the oven, should be supplied by the county or town: otherwisegaols will never be kept clean and wholesome.

u certainly very well become the wisdom of the government, as vt!1 with regard “ to the health of the trwn % as in compassion to the fn: /Wnf to take care, that 11 all tcuja of cerf Mment, should be kept as airy and clean, as is confident with the use, to which they are designed.” And “ as maiinffs is a great source of

u irfettwy so elcjrltrrfs is the greatest preservative."

Sir John Pringle, in his Arrh-n [jry D four ft at the Royal Society, on the subject of Captain Cook's succes^ful care of the ship's crew in his voyage round the world, and the medal deservedly adjudged to him on that account, has the following passage at page 26. “ It i> well known how much cleanliness conduces €t to health; but it is not so obvious how much it also tends to good order and <c other virtues. Tint diligent officer was persuaded--- that such men as he could €t induce to be more cleanly than they were disposed to he of themselves, became €t at the same time more foher, mote orderly, and more attentive to their duty/' (This remark is confirmed by an observation in the No. 651.) 44 Several

w vices, definitive both to mind and body, are incunfilUnt with the habit of u cleanliness/*

It would be better if criminals were to wear a kind of pnftt-ur;frm during the whole of their confinement, as I have seen practised at many foreign prisons. Among other good efiefts, this would make them more liable to be discovered on escaping. On the other hand, they should be tried in si dr even clothes, for the obvious reason that they may be more easily recognized by the witnesses.

f As fumigation may sometimes be necessary in the rooms of prisons, I here give fume extratts from the account with which the ingenious Dr. Lind favoured me, of his successful method of purifying infcdled ships. €§ Charcoal fires should “ be lighted in the morning, and allowed to remain till evening, and lulf a pound n of briinllone thrown upon each;their smoke in the mean time being closely u confined. They may be made in iron pots. This fumigation should be repeated " every day for a fortnight. Every evening after the fumigation, the ports and«hatchways should be opened, and the inlide of the ship washed with warm u vinegar: and after the Uft fumigation, before the men return to the ship, the

decks

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 39

No stable, hogcote or dunghill should be suffered in the court ;* nor any fowls kept there, which I have often seen not only in the courts, but also in the rooms of many prisons. Sweepings, allies, &c. should be taken away every week.

If the bedding is straw, it should be put in coarse canvass;Bedding,

if it is not so enclosed, it ought to be changed every week.

Each bed should have a coarse coverlid or two, and not be laid on the floor, but on a crib bedstead, which should be moveable for washing the room.

Prisoners should not remain in the day-time in the rooms in which they sleep; they should have a common ward, day-room or kitchert. They should also be made to get up early, and be called over — to their bread — and prayers. This would divert them, prevent them from sleeping immoderately, and be conducive to health.

u decks should be thoroughly feraped and cleaned. If. the infection has been'very “ violent, the parts of the ship most exposed to it may also be white-wartied.

Every thing ragged and dirty should be destroyed, as also the clothes and bedding of such as brought the infeflion into the ship, the bedding of such as have died

of the fever, and unless the infection has been very mild, the bedding of such “ as have had the fever though recovered. The remaining cloth.es and bedding should be purified by being exposed twice a week to the steams of the brimstone and charcoal; or when the brimrtonc might be supposed to injure the “ cloaths, they may he hung up in a close place — exposed to the smoke of tobacco ft re wed on charcoal fires. Linens, and such articles as will admit of being wet, should, after tlae first fumigation, be sleeped for several hours in *' cold water or leys, be well washed, and then dried in the open air. If, during “ the fortnight of this fumigation, any person is taken ill of the fever, the fortnight should agaii} commence from the day on which such person leaves the ship. Strict attention should be paid to the cleanliness of the men both in their persons and apparel: such as are sluggish and dirty should be made to bathe “ and clean themselves; and a sufficient quantity of flops should be issued, that “ every man may have a change of clothes.”

I have observed in prisons abroad a very cheap and pleasant fumigation, which surprisingly correfls the bad air. I suppose it is the same as is used in Roman catholic churches, viz, juniper berries thrown upon burning coals in a chathng-dish.

The act of parliament in Ireland, which I mentioned in a former note, orders that “ No gaoler or any person employed by him, shall presume on any “ account to keep in the said gaols, or the yard, or the houses adjoining thereto,

and provided for the use of such prisoners, any hogs, cows, or other cattle,

“ under the penalty of forty shillings for such hog, cow, or other bcaft kept in “ the said gaol or prison,”

D 4

Thole

4

Fees*

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

Tc_ .'e who cr'.tie ocIt wtt, lead taa s> -atr areas* liquor, r^jv -.r to have it Inzer a p: -ai d acaa i_: ct amaa e-. ary day. Tt: n -*- the -id be caue bey c.t, i' l ic^ia treetT wt.^hed to: r.tnu I; or.rr 2 T.a % .'-rp: b: era 5 ar-cav iccrz^ c: the charter pieces c: bets' »;*? bo.M _a it* c: roe % at- half 2 p/aun.i of teat r^eat w.iti'-l l-: or g.ca it: i: 1: r -^xr, with a ctart of the broth, tit > tnt' cl;i: re raaa_e an

encourarament to pear-carle i-~*i or;: r r«;ri.li>ar: the

ti.'t-.hr.: and refrihxy Laace. r tie rai-v -T. S-ri an allow-ar.ee ir. ..it he p to retrieve a bed C--: — . rr: ebaniras too ger.erzllv, tie prrtance os rz~nz~r.g rr..: r.r> w 11 rearer food 2: A i: .: Lon Sunday;upon was.ch rrrr are a-z.~ lire into the

gv,!t, a d ka c the prllbneas trem chapel.

I irate tir allrwence in net r.rrty, beca.it: e of the

rarliile price. Betides that cuara.av of r.eaa, each pr. loner f.i-li have 2 penny a day in tr.rr.rv trr cherte, b-tter, potatoes, pcaie, or turnips: or he ihcala ha-.e a pennyworth of one c: ar.ofe articles.

Her % as in the tap, I mutt infiia upon it is bgh'v neceilirr, thit every pooler, bridewell-k -.p-: r, turnkey, hr. br excluded from all concern in the pr.ihn.rs al cw_r.ee;from ail profit ar.sing direci'.yor irdirefill trom the idle or" their breed, or other

food. Whoever distribuae? it, ihruld hr free frm all temptation to fraud t and be fu eject to a throng check..* The wr.de allowance of pr boners should never be given them in rr/^r/T,

7 r.-a raedar will plainly fee, that I am not an advocate for f/tre-. -j.: rt and P"fu/{ eArjisn: 'to prisoners. I plead cr.lv for

ivvr/.*r;e«, in such a moderate quantity, as mav support health ar.d stren^h for labour. The law allows the t;r debtor vcho r> I in p.';i \>n, two shillings and four pence p-er week t (* 7/ d'^vtara more ec.fi ;y obtained) and the government al-1 ov/ar.ce to au.ze convibU under sentence of transportation is a 1 more, v.z. two fr.tllings and six pence;which the (heri/F cr.ariyt *0 government m his bill of cravings, presented at the

Ir I ."Mr.!, t..<* m.r-n'ier of the pirTili w--ere the gsol is, ooiers the felons I '.'I, i*. I / keep; v t account ct if. for he i.aliov.cJ by act ti.e edof

..4'-. X/. V ail. a turn not tactecir g tcnpouu<i» a year for the trouble,; jsd George H,

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

4*

expiration of his office. And I believe upon the average price of bread, potatoes. &c.the allowance I have mentioned does not exceed those sums. I presume it may be thought rather incongruous to allow prisoners before trial (on which some of them may be found not guilty) less than is given to those that are convicted.

No fighting should be suffered in a gaol: no quarreling, or abusive language;nor the frequent occasion of them, gaming. If any one be injured, let him complain to the keeper, who should hear both parties face to face, decide the matter, and punish the aggressor by closer confinement. Faults that deserve more severe animadversion, should be reserved for the cognizance of the magistrates, or an inspector.

Aloney sent, collected, or bequeathed, should be distributed by the magistrates. Some of it might be laid out in tools, See, for such debtors as will work.

The mention of legacies reminds me of the need there is of a list of them painted legibly on a board;which should be hung up so as to be read by the prisoners. Very few gaols have such a table: and for want of it many legacies have been entirely loft; and the charitable intention of the testators frustrated. Yet care of legacies is expressly required by the atft 32d George II.

In the like conspicuous manner should be hung up in every gaol an authentic table of fees, till they are abolished. This also is expressly required by the same act. Yet in many gaols it is totally disregarded;they have no such tables, and prisoners arc exposed to the imposition of keepers.

In the 24th George II. which prohibits the use of spirituous liquors in prisons or work-houses, it is expressly required,*that every gaoler, keeper, matter, &c. shall procure one or more copies of the three clauses*which contain the several

articles

In the prohibiting clauses, a fine of one hundred pounds Is laid upon any gaoler, keeper, m after, &c. who shall fell, use, lend, or give away any such liquors; or knowingly permit them to be sold, used, Sec. in the house; except they be prescribed by a regular physician, surgeon, or apothecary, to be used medicinally. And a fine of ten pounds to twenty pounds, or any time not exceeding tlirce months imprisonment, for any person who shall bring such liquors into the house. One moiety of these tines, as well as of that mentioned above,

to

No Qu a«-BtLt.

Donations.

Legacies.

Tael*

or

Fees,

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

articles of the prohibition, to be printed or fairly written, and hung up In one of the most public places of the prison or work-house, and renewed as occasion requires, under the penalty of forty shillings for every default.

There should also be a table of the allowance to prisoners: for want of which I have known them defrauded of a considerable part of their food: the whole of which is no where more than sufficient. The fame table should exhibit the particulars of bedding, or straw.

The act for preferring the health of prisoners requires that it be painted on a board;not merely written or printed on paper, because that is more perishable, and liable to be torn.* The rules for cleanliness, and orders against garnish, gaming, drunkenness, quarreling, profaneness and obscenity, should also be visibly exhibited;with the penalties for each of those crimes. The penalties should be fixed by the magistrates, or hr law. The table should also shew the hours of opening and (hutting the several wards; and of attending public worship. Btfides fitting down these hours in a table, notice should be given of them by a bell, as in the dock-yards. I have known prisoners absent from chapel, who laid they would have been there, bat c: J not know the service was performing.

[Rules.]

It is expressly required by the act 32d George II. that rules and orders made signed and confirmed as the table of fees be drawn up for every prison and hung up conspicuously in it

to the informer the other moiety of each of the two smaller fines to the prison ers or in the work house to the poor.

I do not remember to have seen the clauses hung up in any work Lause I shall in the fequel mark the numerous prisons that have the fame defect I could also have mentioned prisons in which notwithstanding the act spirituous liquors are used I could even name gaolers who find ways to evade the act and do them felves fell such liquors to their prisoners and I have known the clauses against spirituous liquors hung up till the keepers had licences after which they were no more seen

I mention this circumstance that may seem trifling as I know the disposition of prisoners to destroy the printed copies of the clauses against spirituous liquors

"Be it also enacted That the judges and justices of assize shall at all assizes make inquiry whether such table of fees and rules and orders are hung up and remain publick and shall inform themselves and supply and redress and shall expressly give in charge to every grand jury impanelled and sworn before them respectively to make inquiries concerning the same

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 43

for inspection of prisoners. Yet in many prisons neither fees nor orders are to be seen;the latter in very few.

An alarm bell would be extremely proper in every largo prison, in order to summon assistance in case of any insurrection, or general escape. The very idea of such a thing would greatly contribute to prevent the projecting of such fehemes.

Finally;The care of a prison is too important to be left wholly to a gaoler; paid indeed for his attendance, but often tempted by his passions, or interest, to fail in his duty. To every prison there should be an appointed; either by

his colleagues in the magistracy, or by parliament.* Sheriffs and magistrates have indeed this power already; and prisons are their immediate care. But some sheriffs excuse themselves from attention to this part of their duty, on account of the short duration, expense, and trouble of their office: and these gentlemen, as well as gentlemen in the commission of the peace, have no doubt been fearful of the consequence of looking into prisons. But the danger from such inspection is in great measure removed: and it may be expected that sheriffs will now engage in this buffness; and that among justices, and town magistrates, there may always be found one man generous enough to undertake this important service. Or if the constant trouble be thought too much for one person, it may proceed by annual, quarterly, or monthly rotation. The inspector should make his visit once in a week, or at most in a fortnight; changing his days. He should take with him a memorandum of all the rules, and inquire into the observance or neglect of them. He should (as is done in some of our hof-pitals) look into every room, to fee if it be clean, 5cc. He should speak with every prisoner; hear all complaints; and immediately correct what he finds manifestly wrong: what he doubts of, he may refer to his brethren in office, at their next meeting. A good gaoler will be pleased with this scrutiny:

The Vagrant Act 17th George II. requires that two justices visit the houses of correction twice, or oftener if need be, in every year; and to examine into “ the estate and management thereof, and to report, &c.” And that the justices at quarter ftttions impose fines and penalties on the governors or matters who do not keep their prisoners to hard labour, and punish and correct them according to the directions of the warrants, &c.

it

Alaem

Bill.

iNsrtc-

TOB.

44

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

it will do him honour, and confirm him in his Ration. In case of a lcfs worthy gaoler, the examination is more needful, in order to his being reprimanded; and, if he be incorrigible, to his being discharged. This honourable delegate should have no salary: he should engage from the noble motive of doing justice to prisoners, and service to his country.

I have often inquired of gaolers, whether the sheriffs, justices, or town magistrates inspected their gaols ? Many of the oldest have answered, “ None of those gentlemen ever looked into the dungeons, or even the wards of my gaol.* Others have said, “ Those gentlemen think that if they came into my gaol, they should soon be in their graves.'* Others, “ The justices think the inside of my house too close for them;they satisfy themselves with viewing the outside.* Now if magistrates continue thus negligent of their duty, a general thorough reformation of our prisons must be despaired of: what has been already obtained will soon be loft, and all will link again into the former dreadful condition.*

BRIDEWELLS.

If our bridewells be not more properly conducted, sending prisoners from them to county gaols will defeat all the care of the most attentive gaolers, and the whole intention of the act for preserving the health of prisoners; and discharged offenders will spread disease and vice wherever they go; and instead of being amended, become an aggravated evil to society.

It is a shocking thing to destroy in prison the morals, the health, and (as is often done) the lives of those whom the law consigns only to hard labour and correction. One is charged with bastardy: another is abusive in a drunken quarrel: a young creature, who perhaps was never taught a moral lesson, is guilty of some petty theft: fend them to bridewell fora

The author of TtUmacbut elegantly remarks, The prosperous sum mw»J j u their eye* from the miserable, not through insensibility, but because the fight j “ is an interruption of their gaiety.”

rtw/ru.

Sect.III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

year, or two, which they must consume in idleness, hunger, dirt, with companions much improved by such education — if that prison be not secure, fend them into still worse company, that of abandoned felons in the county gaol — what is this but devoting them to destruction ? Many may date the total loss of every principle of honour and virtue, from their confinement in these schools of wickedness.

Every county and town that has a bridewell should be careful to fee, first of ail, that it be suitable to the purpose. In many places the county gaol is also a bridewell. But this prison ought to be quite separate from the gaol; nor should even the court be common to both. The building must be proportioned to the general number of delinquents. None of the rooms for confinement should be lower than the ground-floor;rather a story above it. Each work-room should have a thorough-fare for air: but the opposite windows need not be equal;the back windows half the size of those in front, and.six feet from the floor.* Few or none of the windows should have glass;only blinds, similar to what are used in distilleries;or shutters, and these should be open several hours in the day.

In the court (for such is necessary in every prison f) there should be a pump, or some other provision for water in plenty. And prisoners should be permitted to walk about, when they have done working.

For in work they ought, most certainly, to be employed. This is indispensibly requisite. Not nne who is not sick should be idle. Where the prisoners are numerous, there should be

In all large rooms, where there are numbers of people, provision should be made for letting out the vitiated air at the top of them. Sec Dr. Priestley'g Experimenttf tcc. p. 281.

t By an act 7th James I. Cap. IV. it Is required that there be in every county one or more fit and convenient house or houses of correction, with convenient “backside thereunto adjoining — Every justice of peace within every county —

where such house and backside shall not be erected or provided,” (within about two years) rt shall forfeit for his said neglect, five pounds of lawful English money one moiety to the informer, the other towards erecting, building, &c. the said house and backside.

And an act made in Ireland the icth and nth of Charles I. requires the same, ander the like penalty for neglect.

t Many are committed to bridewell to live in idleness. The w do not order them to labour,

4*

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

several work-rooms; and but few prisoners in one room* Those who work by compulsion are more likely to be seduced to idleness in large companies* than when they are more by themselves. The keeper should be a matter of some manufacture;* a man of a6tivity,t prudence, and temper. And he should keep his prisoners at work ten hours a day;meal-times included.

For women, especially those that have children with them, and sometimes at the breast, there should be a chimney in one or two rooms: and in winter firing should be allowed. I have

known infants starved to death for want of this. In some

prisons the smoke has no vent but at the doors and windows. In some bridewells there should be a separate room or two for faulty apprentices, as at Tothillfields, Clerkenwell, &c.J In all, two airy wards for the sick, with medical relief. Men and women should be here entirely separated, as well as in gaols, to prevent the debauchery and vice so generally practised in our prisons. They should have work-shops, as well as night-rooms, separate.§ There should be baths, and an oven,

The acts cited in a preceding note require that houses of correction have mills, turns, cards, and such-like necessary implements, to set rogues or other idle persons on work.” And the act 17th George II. quoted in a former note, requires that the justices at their quarter sessions “ take effectual care that the

houses of correction — be duly fitted up, furnished, and supplied with fufneient implements, materials, and furniture, for keeping, relieving, setting to work, “ employing, and correcting all idle and disorderly persons, rogues, vagabonds, &c.”

of It was remarked that a gadtr should not be an old or infirm person; the same caution is requisite with regard to the keeper of a Ir'uLivell; fmee such an one would neither be able to keep the prisoners properly at work, nor to prevent theif making their escape at the time of locking up, as I knew to happen at Preston in Lancashire, and other places.

J Boys confined for correction should always be separate from other prisoners, and indeed from one another. A kind and tender monitor should often fee them, and without tiring their attention, converse with them as a parent or friend.

^ In all prisons, it would be an excellent improvement to have crib bedsteads for each person, like those at Haflar, and the royal hospital at Plymouth. Some Similar to these have been introduced in the counties of Hants, Suffolk, &c. If offenders have only loose straw, though with a coverlid, they must lie in their clothes, and of necessity be dirty and sickly objects. Therefore proper bedding is necessary. Without this, how can habits of cleanliness be produced and promoted in young creatures? or what disposition can such have for work

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

for the lame purposes as in the gaols. In some county bridewells there are from ten to twenty prisoners, and in Tothill-fields and Cler ken well many more. Great care should he taken to prevent infection;to keep the house clean, and well aired; and invariably to adhere to strict rules of sobriety and diligence, in order to correct the faults of prisoners, and make them for the future useful to society.* Gentle discipline is commonly more efficacious than severity; which should not be exercised but on such as will not be amended by lenity. These should be punished by solitary confinement on bread and water, for a time proportioned to their fault. The keeper should, by all means, reside in the house. He should not be suffered to farm any part of the allowance; nor to fell liquor, or any thing else. He should have no fees,f but a salary proportioned to the trust. The whole management should be frequently inquired into, in the same manner as that of a gaol, and by the same inspectors. — In the house there should be a room for the magistrates, as there is in the hospitals, and in the houses of industry in Suffolk and Norfolk, and in foreign houses of correction. This would be attended with many advantages.^ I have before said, that I am no advocate for luxury in prisons;for I would have no meat diet for criminals in houses of correction, or at most, only on Sundays. Yet I would plead that they should have, at least, a pound and half of good

The notion, that convish are urgzvernabis certainly error.eout. There it a mode of managing some of the most desperate, with case to yourself, and advantage to them. Many of them are (hrewd and sensible: manage them with calmness, yet with steadiness: shew them that you have humanity, and that you aim to make them useful members of society: let them fee and hear the roles and orders of the ptifon, and be convinced that they are not defrauded in their provisions or clothes by contractors or gaolers. When they are sick, let them be treated with tenderness. Such conduct would prevent mutiny in prisons, and attempts to escape; which I am fully persuaded are often owing to prisoners being made desperate, by the inhumanity and ill usage of their keepers.

f Many young creatures, when their term is expired, are stript of a remaining handkerchief, apron, or petticoat. Such necessaries have 1 seen left with the keepers till they could bring their fees.

J It was formerly a great security for the cleanliness of prisons in Scotland, that the courts of justice fat in them j and this Hill is the case in some of the towns,

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

household bread a day, and a quart of good beer: besides twice a day a quart of warm soup made from pease, rice, milk or barley. For a change they might sometimes have turnips, carrots, or potatoes. It may be said, this diet will starve those who work in houses of correction: but I am persuaded of the contrary, by what I have seen abroad, in the galleys, in the houses of correction, and among the most robust labourers. Though I am fen Able that persons confined, whose minds are deprdl'td, need more nourishment than such as are at liberty.

I know not any reason whv a bridewell may not be conducted with as much regularity, as any other house where the family is equally numerous. Some foreign houses of correction are so conducted. Let the sober and diligent be distinguished by some preference in their clothes, diet, or lodging or by shortening the term of their confinement; and giving them, when discharged, a good character. This last will be a strong incitement to good behaviour. The common diet should be at least as good and as much as that of felons in a gaol. The hours of rising, of reading a chapter in the Bible, or prayers, of meals, of work, hic. should all be fixed by the magistrates, and notice of them given by a bell.

Some have supposed that the profit of the work in a house of correction might support the expense of the house. But however it may appear in speculation, in practice it is always found otherwise. The difference is great between involuntary labour and that which is performed from choice. In the bell regulated houses of correction in Holland, taxes are fixed for

O '

their support.* But though a bridewell cannot support itself, yet under proper regulation, it would contribute in some measure towards its own maintenance. An account should be

Mr. Thomas Firmin, a citizen of London in the last century, employed about two thousand poor, by which he loft £200 a year, though good quantities of commodities were taken off by the kindness of several persons, at the price they cost him to spin and weave. In particular, the East India and Guinea Com* panics gave him encouragement to make their allabas cicths, and coarse canvass for pepper bags, which before they bought from foreign countries. “ For seven “ or eight years together he loft two pence in a shilling by all the work of his “ Poor: hut he was content; for he would say, two pence given them by loss " in ,heir work, was twice so much saved to the public, in that it took them “ oft from beggary, or theft,” Firmin's Life, p. 33 3+.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 49

kept of the profit of the work; and all of it applied to common benefit; not left to the disposal of keepers: for some of them, in the few bridewells where work is done, keep to themselves a sixth part, some half, and some the whole of the prisoners earnings; giving them only the short county-allowance, and sometimes but part of that. When I said all the earnings should go to common flock, I meant it of the flated hours for working. Those who will employ themselves in extra-hours, should have the profit to themselves. And perhaps it might be an encouragement to diligence in the flated hours, to give them some small portion of the profit of these also;or employ them in beating hemp, and spinning, and weaving linen for their own use: for clean linen they should have every week. With regular economy, prisoners would be better nourished, and fitter for labour, than they now are; and yet the county not burthened with much, if any, additional expense. But a building fit for the intention ought first to be provided.

The charge of this, as well as of a proper gaol, will no doubt be complained of But if that be weighed against the benefit which will accrue to the public, it will be found but light. Besides, that ought not to be allowed as a valid objection, the occasion of which should have been removed long ago. Why have some prisons been suffered to become ruinous; so that many rooms in them are unsafe, and prisoners are crowded together in the few that remain, or for the smallest offences are loaded with irons to prevent their escape ? Why were not the walls of the courts repaired in time, that prisoners might with safe^y be allowed the proper use of them ? Money to the amount of thousands is not with-held when shire-halls and town-halls are wanted. These we often fee grand and elegant edifices. Why should it be spared when the morals and lives of multitudes are at flake; and when it is impofuble the design of the legislature should be answered without it ? I mean amending the manners of petty offenders; preventing the increase of felonies, and the spread of diseases. That these, instead of being prevented, are promoted by the present irregularity of bridewells, is notorious.* Prescription founded on

The Marquis Beccaria clcfcs his 50th chapter with this maxim). The punishment of a crime cannot be just, (that is neceiliry) if the laws have not uendeavoured to prevent that crime by the best means which times and circumstances wsuJd al;sv^.,

E culpable

50 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

ner' rcr.r? tf.'i r*TC Se i: r. rr~i In Sr c< a demand, which every principle of ec _!: y. b.-r. r.'. m-d ctrl.ry conspires to enforce.

I hive or.lv farther to 2_fi, that the *r-irrre-n: nt of bnde-veiis is new 2 matter of mr-T than cri rirr concern, finer offenders are at prefer.: ccerrr.tte-d to them foe terms so long as from feree to /re or rr^r. M.h of the fir persons would probably ha\e been fen ter. red to'msr: rv,when that mode of punishment was in ufc.

I had taken feme pains to make ire a ries concerning the Pate of trarhrrtjy with re-marJ to whom many cruelties and

irr.positions were common!v pnrr: '-d, and whoie condition was in m2nv resptcls eauaiiv contrary to humanity and good policy: I flattered myself that I had discovered means of remedying these evils in a considerable demcr, and of disburthening the counties of a heavy exper.ie with which they were charged; and was preparing to lay them before the public, when a new turn was given to the matter by art of parliament.*

Since this has taken place, I suppress what I had written;f 2nd shall only give, at the end of my book, a lid of the numbers delivered from Newgate for tra importation in the course of three years. This will shew, in a very alarming light, the danger there may be in future of crowding our prisons, so as to produce the most destructive consequences.

I cannot conclude this section, without attempting to obviate some objections that may occur to the improvements proposed in it. It may be said, that from the many conveniences suggested in the (Irufture of prisons, and the removal of those hardships which rendered them so terrible, th* dread of being confined in them will in great measure be taken off, and the lower classes of people will find them more comfortable places of residence than their own houses. But let it be considered,

16th of George III. Cap. XLIII. An Act to authorise, for a limited Time,

”the Punishment by hard Labour of Offenders who, for certain Crimes, are or shall become liable to be transported to any of his Majesty's Colonies and Plantations."

f On the whole, I perfectly concur in opinion with a learned writer, who has farted that “ every efifeft of banishment, as pratlifed in England, is often beneficial to the criminal, and always injurious to the community.*

Princip. of Penal Law, p. 3;.

---

Sect. IV. FOREIGN PRISONS. 51

in the first place, that although I have indeed recommended such attention in the construction and management as may free them from the diseases and hardships under which they have laboured, I have proposed nothing to give them an air of elegance or pleasantness. On the contrary, I have censured the

plan of some modern gaols as too shewy and splendid; and nothing abroad struck me more with regard to these buildings, than the perfect plainness and simplicity of their appearance. Then, with respect to the more humane treatment of the prisoners in the articles of food, lodging, and the like, I venture to assert, that if to it be joined such strict regulations in preventing all dissipation and riotous amusement, as I have inculcated, confinement in a prison, though it may cease to be destructive to health and morals, will not fail to be sufficiently irksome and disagreeable, especially to the idle and profligate.

SECTION IV.

AN ACCOUNT OF FOREIGN PRISONS AND HOSPITALS.

I designed to publish the account of our prisons in the spring 1775, after I returned from Scotland and Ireland. But conjecturing that something useful to my purpose might be collected abroad, I laid aside my papers, and travelled into France, Flanders, Holland, and Germany. I flattered myself that my labour was not quite fruitless; and repeated my visit to these countries, and went also to Switzerland, in 1776.

52 FOREIGN PRISONS.

In the conclusion of my former edition, I made a promise, if the legislature should seriously engage in the reformation of our prisons, to take a third journey, through the Austrian and Prussian dominions, and the free cities of Germany. This I accomplished in 1778, and likewise extended my tour through Italy, and revisited some of the countries I had before seen in pursuit of my object.

The substance of all these travels is now thrown into one narrative, in which I follow the order of my aaid journey, and begin with

HOLLAND.

Prisons in the United Provinces are so quiet, and most of them so clean, that a visitor can hardly believe he is in a gaol. They are commonly (except the rasp-houses) white-washed once or twice a year: and a prisoner told me it was no small refreshment to go into their rooms after such a thorough cleaning. A physician and surgeon is appointed to every prison; and prisoners are in general healthy.

---

In most of the prisons for criminals there are so many rooms that each prisoner is kept separate. They never go cut of their rooms: each has a bedstead, draw mat, and coverlet. But there are few criminals, except those in the resp-h: ufci zrAffin-hiufcs. Of late, in all theftven provinces, seldom more executions in a year than from four to fix. One reason of this, I believe, is the awful solemnity of executions, which are performed in presence of the magistrates, with great order and seriousness, and great effect on the spectators. I did not fee the process in Holland; but it was particularly described to me, and was similar to what I had been witness of in another place abroad.

The common method of execution for unpremeditated murder, is decollation by a broad sword. Robberies are generally punished by the halter. For the more atrocious crimes, such as premeditated murder &c. the malefactor is broken on the wheel; or rather on a cross laid flat upon the scaffold. But a description of the manner of this execution, which is finished

Sect. IV. HOLLAND.

by a coup de grace on the breast, would not be agreeable to any of my readers.

Debtors also are but few. The magistrates do not approve of confining in idleness any that may be usefully employed. And when one is imprisoned, the creditor must pay the gaoler for his maintenance, from five and a half to eighteen stivers a day, according to the debtor's former condition in life. Thefaliment must be paid every week: in default whereof, the gaoler gives eight days notice; and if within that time, the money, or security for it, be not brought, the debtor is discharged.

Another reason is, that the situation is very disgraceful. But perhaps the principal cause that debtors, as well as capital offenders, are few, is the great care that is taken to train up the children of the poor, and indeed of all others, to industry. No debtors have their wives and children living with them in prison: but occasional visits in the day-time arc not forbidden. You do not hear in the streets as you pass by a prison, what I have been rallied for abroad, the cry of poor hungry debtors.

The States do not transport convicts: but men are put to labour in the rasp-housety and women to proper work in the spin-houses: upon this professed maxim. Make them,

and they will be honest.The rasping logwood, which was formerly the principal work done by the male convicts, is now in many places performed at the mills, much cheaper: and the Dutch, finding woollen manufactures more profitable, have lately set up several of them in those houses of correction. In some, the work of the healthy prisoners docs not only support them;but they have a little extra-time to earn some what for their better living in prison, or for their benefit afterwards.

Great care is taken to give them moral and religious instruction, and reform their manners, for their own and the public good. The chaplain (such there is in every house of correction) does not only perform public worship, but privately instructs the prisoners, catechises them every week &c. and I am well informed that many come out sober and honest.*

I have heard in England that a countryman of ours, who was a prisoner in the rasp-heuse at Amsterdam several years, wasptrmiued to work at his own

E j tiacie.

54

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Some have even chosen to continue and work in the house after their discharge.

Offenders are sentenced to these houses, according to their crimes, for seven, ten, fifteen, twenty years and upwards: but, to prevent despair, seldom for life. As an encouragement to sobriety and industry, those who distinguish themselves by such behaviour, are discharged before the expiration of their term. A prisoner who gives information of an intended -escape is favoured much in this respect: his term is considerably shortened. A little before the election of new magistrates, those who are in office inspect these prisons; and inquire of the keeper which prisoners, of those who have been confined a few years, have been diligent and orderly; and of the minister, which of them have been most attentive to public and private instructions. According to the accounts, they abridge the appointed time of punishment: so that fourteen years will sometimes be reduced to eight or ten; and twelve years to six or seven. This practice is in every view wife and beneficial. Indeed, I have some reason to think that criminals are often doomed to a longer term, with an intention to make such deductions upon their amendment.

I was informed that the work done in the houses of correction docs not maintain those houses: though the men that are rebuff earn from eight to ten stivers a day; and healthy women*by spinning &c. from four to fix. But some earn less;those who are infirm, very little: none however are quite idle but the sick. This is surely excellent policy; for besides guarding against the pernicious effects of idleness in a prison, and breaking criminals to habits of industry, if work so constant does not support the houses, how much heavier would be the public burthen, maintaining the numerous offenders in these prisons, if, as in many of our bridewells, no work at all were done there

trade, Ihoe-making; and by being constantly kept employed, was quite cured of the vices which brought him to confinement. My informant added, that the prisoner received at his release a surplus of his earnings, which enabled him to set up in London; where he lived in credit, and at dinner commonly drank Health to his worthy mailers at the rasp-house,”

III

55

In Holland, as well as in Germany, there are private rooms in most of the houses of correction, in which young persons of a vicious and profligate turn are confined on the representation of their parents, till they shew signs of amendment.

At Rotterdam, in the Stadt-house prison, were no debtors Rott el-in either of the three rooms at any of my visits. When there s” a”t-are any, they are alimented at one fixed sum, viz. sixteen «ou*«. stivers a day.* There are seven rooms for criminals or disorderly persons. One of them is called the condemned room, into which a criminal is put fourteen days before his final sentence; and immediately after the sentence, he is executed with a solemnity very.striking to the common people. In three of the rooms, were three persons confined for a limited time for some small offences, and kept to bread and water. Their daily allowance was from four to five stivers, and their pitcher was filled with water three times a day; but the other criminals had their pitcher filled once a day with, and their allowance was from: nine to ten stivers. There were cases with thick straw mats, and two or three coverlets to each.

In the Rasp-house (or Spin-house* as it should more properly Rasf-be called) the thirty-eight men who were there, were spinning, HOUSE* except two who were cutting or rasping logv/ood, and a few who were carding wool, > making fishing-nets, and sorting coffee-berries. The women were all employed in spinning,.carding, or winding at a great wheel, like those which at*Derby are turned by water. They were clean, and appeared healthy and well. I observed the ceiling to be white: one of the regents informed me that it was white-washed regularly twice a year.

The men were more separated than the,into rooms which measured about fourteen feet by seventeen, and each of which contained only four or five. For preventing combinations, two of them are removed every ten or fourteen days, to different companies. In those rooms were some Jews, whose dinner was not pork, as was that of the other prisoners, but

A guinea 45a d. is =® 11 guilders 11 stivers = 131 stivers (for 10 stivers is a guilder) therefore stivers are to pence as [:

i. e. ix stivers is equal to a shilling.

E 4 ,

FOREIGN PRISONS.

mitt*!, which their society in the city Tent them, with a. like of white bread, by permission of one of the five regents or

in spe ciors.

The whipping-post is in the middle of the court, in full view of the mrn-criminals. For the more refractory, there are dark rooms, but not dungeons: in one of these, on (hutting the door on myself, I found no dampness. My condudor observed, that the floor was raised to preserve it dry. Here they are allowed no bedding, and are kept to bread and water, which is given them at an aperture in the door. Their confinement is for fix, eight, ten, or fourteen days.

The keeper has a salary from the city, of four hundred florins or guilders per annum, f and also a house, viduals and drink, firing and candle, and one seventh part of the produce of all the labour of the prisoners;so that it is his interest to fee that the work be well performed: yet as the quantum is fixed by the regents, it is not in his power to be a cruel talk-master. The manner of dieting the prisoners seemed to me worthy of being inserted at length.

Being

As I was there at one o'clock, the time of the d?ft<ibution, I observed that the bread was all cut in slices: this prevents those contests or frauds which sometimes happen where prisoners mess together, and the bread is given out in one loaf, as 1 saw on board the hulks in the Thames, where one loaf was given to fix persons.

f About £36.

J Regulation for the daily diet, at the Rasp-house at Rotterdam.

Sunday Dinner. Each man has a mess of boiled grout, with butter or kitchen-stuff j a piece of cheese or butter, with a quarter of a pound of rye bread.

- Each boy, woman, or such as only work half-task, a mess of grout, as above} a piece of cheese or butter, with one sixth of a pound of rye bread.

- Supper. Each man a bowl of new milk boiled with barley or flour, with a piece of cheese, and one fourth of a pound of rye bread.

- Each boy, woman, or such as only do half-task, the bowl of sweet milk as above, but no bread or cheese.

Monday Breakfast. Each man half a pound of rye bread with cheese or butter.

Each boy, woman, or half-tasked, one fourth of a pound of rye bread with butter or cheese.

N. B. Breakfast through the week, is the same as above.

— --Dinner. Each man half a pound of meat, or one sixth of a pound

pork without bone; half a pound of rye bread, with a bowl of boiled carrots, cabbage or greens.

Sect. IV. HOLLAND.

Being at Rotterdam on a Sunday, I was dedrous of seeing, whether there was such dissipation in their prisons, as there is in ours, on that day. The public service at the Rasp-house began at half after one o'clock. The audience confided of about thirty or forty inhabitants of the town, Mr. Schumaker the prefixing regent, the head-keeper and his family, and three

MWay Dinner. Each boy, woman, or half-tasked, one third of a pound of meat, or one eighth of a pound of pork without bone, three eighths of a pound of rye bread, with a bowl of beiled carrots, cabbage or greens.

---

Tuesday Dinner. For all, boiled gray pease, with one fourth of a pound of rye bread; the men have, besides, each a piece of cheese.

Wednesday Dinner. Each man a bowl of pease porridge, with three eighths of a pound of rye bread and a piece of cheese.

---

- Each boy, woman, or hall-talked, a bowl of pease porridge,

coe fourth of a pound of rye bread, with a piece of cheese.

7c*-/irr Dinner. Each man, ere third of a pound of meat, or one eighth of a pound of perk without bene; two dices at rye bread, weighing together half a pound, with a bowl of barley broth.

- Bcyi, or men who only do half-task, one fourth of a pound

of meat, or one twelfth of a pound of pork without bone; two dices of rye bread, weighing together three eighths of a pound, with each a bowl of barley broth.

- The women, no meat or pork; each a bowl of barley broth,

with th-ee eighths of a pound of rye bread with butter or cheese.

Fr J^y Dinner. Each man a bcwl of kidney-bean porridge;three eighths of a pound of rye bread with cheese.

- Each boy, woman, or half-tasked, the rods of kidney-bean

perridge; one fourth of a pound of rye bread with cheese.

Dinner. Each man a bowl of boiled pease, with butter and vinegar la a re; beys, women and half-tasked, have the same allowance} and ei. have the lame allowance of rye bread and cheese as on the Fridays.

Toe constant supper, on week-days, for all, is butter milk boiled with barley or grout till thick enough to be eaten without bread} to this, each man has one fourth of a peund of rye bread with cheese; the boys, women and half-tasked have only a raefs of the butter milk, but no bread or cheese.

---

Cans.

Each man has, during the three summer months, daily, of beer, 2½

and during the three winter months, ditto ditto - 1½

and during the remaining six months, ditto ditto - 2

Boys, women and half-tasked for the three summer months, each, daily, 1½

and for the remaining nine months, ditto ditto - 1

In the foregoing regulation for diet, no alteration is to be made, unless when fish shall be extraordinarily cheap and plentiful, all the prisoners may be indulged with one meal, provided with the consent of a majority of the regents.

---

57

[Rotterdam Rasp-house.]

Under-

58

Rott*-

0AM

Rain

noutt.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

under-keepers, bcfules the prisoners. The number of tvemm prisoners was about forty, who were separated from the rest of the congregation by a wooden palisade, and seated on benches raised one above another. They were all clean and neat;had nothing distinguishing in their dress, but were without hats. While they flood up during prayer, they held up their aprons to cover their faces. The men were neat, drafted in brow'n coats, had been shaved, had clean shirts (which were most of them chequed), clean (lockings, and wore handkerchiefs about their necks. They also were seated on raised benches, in a room out of the chapel, and separated from it by an iron grate from the top of the room to the bottom, so wide that all the audience, except the female prisoners, had them full in view. The keeper's feat adjoins to this grate, and two of his servants, who are turnkeys, fat observing their behaviour.

The chaplain, after a short prater, preached extempore; then, the men con viols joined in singing, most of them having books. When the chaplain had prayed again, he catechised for about three quarters of an hour. It being the turn

that Sunday, f.£ of them flood up, cne after another, and made the responses, which the chaplain explained to them. After this he prayed, and the ftrvics concluded by singing the fifty-th'.l Ptdlm. The decent behaviour and attention of the audience, evidently proved that the ferric?, though oi two hours and a half, was not ted leas or di; agreeable.

During the time of cutechhing, the head-keeper ar.i one of his servants went out, to imp eel the empty wards, and ta ldarch whether any tools or imtruments were concealed. The keeper returned to his feat in an hour. At the end of the fer-vioe, the nrrrn reded by the regents feat ,* ar.i when they w ere gene, he went into the court to fee the rzsn go to their several wards, four cr tve together,f that n let out at a time. After they were all locked up, he went: j earn window, and converted with them. Many of theta re-their thanks for the abridgment c: their term of cermr.e-

me.

HOLLAND. 59

ment, as this was just before the time for electing new magistrates. One or two, who had been at sea, entreated to go in any capacity to India, as is sometimes permitted. He afterwards went to the lattice of the women's ward, and conversed with them; and gave the catechumens some token of his approbation.

I cannot forbear closing this account, with mentioning the ardent wifties it inspired in me, thatawr prisons also, instead of echoing with profaneness and blasphemy, might hereafter resound with the offices of religious worship; and prove, like these, the happy means of awakening many to a sense of their duty to God and man.*

The Pest-houseacross the Maes opposite Rotterdam is a spacious building in a small isle. It is nearly a square of one hundred and thirty feet: has four large wards, which are about thirty feet wide and twenty high. I mention this edifice, not only as it occurred to me that it would be a good plan for a house of correction, being airy, and built round a court in which is a bason of water communicating with the Maes j but on account of the sentiments of veneration it inspired, when I trod on the ground under which such piles of my brave countrymen lie buried;it having been used as a military hospital after the siege of Bergen-of-Zoom.

At La Porte, the prison at Gouda, there is a small room for debtors, which the keeper informed me had not been occupied since 1761. There are many (octagon)rooms, but all empty: some arc assigned to those who are committed for small often-ccs, and kept to bread and water, for which there is an allowance to each of them of three stivers a day. — In the Spin-house the prisoners were all employed in carding and spinning wool for stockings. On observing little towels hanging in a

O O OO

room, they told me, that each of them had one clean every week. Here were some prisoners from the Hague, and other towns which have no rasp-houses, who were admitted at a stipulated annual sum, of about a hundred and ten florins for

On converting with a fenfjfcle magistrate, his words were, “ I have known persons who have come out of our houses of correction thoroughly reformed, and hate thanked God for their confinement."

each.

ROTTERDAM

Rasp-house.

Pest-house.

Gouda.

L.

Co

CoUDA.

Delft.

Harlem

Spin-

mouse.

Hospital.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

each, besides fifteen for clothing. — Near this city is enclosed a triangular gallows, with an inscription over the gate.

Rede faciendo neminem timeas.

The best translation of which may be the words of Script urey The righteous is bold as a lion.”

At Delft there were near ninety in the house of correction: men and women quite separate: all neat and dean, and looked healthy. They told me their allowance was five stivers a day. All employed on a woollen manufacture — women spinning, carding &c. — men weaving from coarse to very fine cloth: their talk, to earn thirty-five llivers a week. Some earn a small surplus; but they have only half of it. A burgomaster, to whom I mentioned that circumstance, said it was the truth. They do not put more than eight or ten men to work in one room: for when large numbers are together, one idle person corrupts more; and there is not generally so much work done. Here also, if a prisoner has behaved well for a few years, and given proofs of amendment, the magistrates begin to abridge the time for which he was sentenced. One whom I saw very cheerful, told me the cause of his joy was that a year had lately been taken from his term.

At Harlem, the Spin-house (which is the or

poor-house) being old, is not so airy and commodious as modern buildings. Here were about thirty male and fifteen female offenders. The women were at work with the mother (as they call her) making and mending the linen of the house. The men were weaving coarse linen, in which, at the distance of every six inches, there was a blue stripe, to distinguish the linen of the house, and to prevent its being in any manner disposed of elsewhere. One person was working at a loom on flowered fllk damask, because that had been his former trade. Tailors were also employed in the way of their profession. The room in which the women worked, and that in which they slept, were quite clean. Each bed had two persons allotted to it, and they were all allowed (heets. The poor here, as in other work-houses in Holland, were cleanly and decently clad.

In this city is a noble hospital, airy and spacious, called the Procveniers, in which the persons admitted are decently provided

6t

Sect. IV. HOLLAND.

with meat, drink and lodging during their lives, and a butying-place at their decease. Persons of all ages from twenty to the most advanced period are admitted, though it is not common for any under forty to apply for admission. At entrance, each person pays a greater or smaller sum, according to his age, as by the table in the note.* A common table is provided for all who are not Tick or infirm. If any, after residing some time, choose to have their victuals brought to their rooms, rather than eat in common, they must pay for that privilege according to their age, one fifth part of the sum that would be required for admission at that age. For example — a person of seventy years of age chooses to eat in his apartments, he must pay one fifth of the admission money required at the age of seventy, namely, four hundred and twenty florins.

It often happens that there are not vacant places, when per-lbns desire admission. But many secure places before a vacancy, by paying two hundred florins in advance of their entrance money; in consequence of which, their names are inscribed in a list j and the money deducted from the sum required when they enter.

Those who choose to leave the house entirely, receive, during the remainder of their lives, a certain, though very final I, interest of the sum which they paid at admission.f

Age. Sum.

---

Florins.

20 - 5000

22 - 4900

24 - 4800

26 - 4700

28 - 4600

30 - 4500

32 - 4400

34 - 4300

36 - 4150

38 - 4050

40 - 3900

42 - 3800

44 - 3700

46 - 3550

48 - 3450

50 - 3300

52 - 3150

54 - 3000

56 - 2900

58 - 2750

60 - 2700

62 - 2600

64 - 2500

66 - 2350

68 - 2200

70 - 2100

72 - 1950

74 - 1800

76 - 1700

78 - 1600

80 - 1500

---

f For this account I am Indebted to Dr. Maclaine, the worthy minister of the English church at the Hague,

At

Haulcm

Hospital.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Amsterdam

Stadt-

MOVSK.

At Amsterdam the prison is in the Stadt-house. Debtors and felons quite separate. No court. Visitants may converse with debtors at the lattices of their rooms, from nine to twelve in the forenoon. The debtor may buy an anchor of wine to de-pofite with the keeper (who fells liquors): he is allowed to call for a bottle of it a day, paying the keeper two stivers a bottle.

By conversing with the debtors, I found that they were all alimented alike, the first fourteen days at eleven stivers or a shilling a day; after that time at five stivers and a half. But this is paid to the gaoler, who has great profit out of it, as appeared from the daily allowance, which I weighed several times. The city allows each debtor one quart of beer daily, and turf for firing.

In this city they compute 250,000 fouls 5* about one third of those in London: yet in 1775, I found but eighteen debtors; in 1776, only fifteen; in 1778, eighteen.

The rooms for criminals are down fifteen steps;ten feet by nine: each, for one prisoner only: a bedstead &c. door-way twenty-two inches wide;door four inches thick: the condemned rooms have an iron door besides. In the latter a criminal is never left alone: two prisoners from the rasp-house are always with him, to prevent his destroying himself. They rejoice at the service; for if they discharge it faithfully, their reward is an abridgement of their allotted term. The execu-

In the Stadt-house there is hung up to public view, a board shewing the mortality in this city.

Deaths in 1774, — — 6649.

177Sj ----- -7895.

1776, — — 8982.

1777, ----- 8939.

When I was there in June 1778*

The first week, — 121.

Second week, — 138.

Sir William Petty in his TraSls, p. 186, gives for the year 1685 the number of burials in Amsterdam 6245. Pei haps the above computation of the number of inhabitants in Amsterdam is too great; though, if I mistake not, Mr. Karfleboom estimated them at 243.000. And of late, many Jews banished from other countries, have made an addition to the number: but Dr. Price reckons, that they hardly amount to 2co,cco. See his Otfcrva Payments, p. 1S6,

187. 3d edit.

tion

Sect. IV. HOLLAND.

tion is generally performed within forty-eight hours after sentence. From a book containing the names and crimes of all who have been executed at Amsterdam, from January 1693 to the end of 1766, the number amounts to 336. But only 25 were executed in the last 20 years of that term. And I have been well informed, that in the three years preceding my visit in 1778, only one criminal was executed, and he was beheaded.

In 1776, in the Stadt-house there were fix delinquents; and in 1778 only five, and their offences not being capital, all the strong rooms under ground were empty. Their allowance is nine stivers a day, for which the keeper gives them — in the morning, four slices of bread and butter — at dinner, rice soup, and two slices of bread — at supper, milk — besides about a quart of beer a day; and on Sunday three quarters of a pound of meat. He also pays for their weekly shaving, and for washing their linen. In some other provinces the allowance is the fame: in some, more. One of the magistrates, with whom I was conversing upon the subject of English prisons, said, “ Nourish “ your prisoners well, and keep them in dry rooms, and they “ will be healthy.*

The children of the malefactors who are executed, are sent to the orphan-house, and there brought up in industry, and not left destitute vagabonds to become unhappy victims to the wickedness and folly of their parents.

At the Rasp-house over the gate is, in has relief, a device somewhat like that hereafter taken notice of at Mentz. At the inner gate is (as at other rasp-houses) a representation of two men rasping logwood: which is here their principal employment. Yet regard is had not only to their degree of guilt, but to their strength: for I saw two men winding silk. In summer 1776, there were fifty-four prisoners. In some rooms, where they also sleep, were ten or twelve men rasping an appointed talk. Others were in the warehouses, sorting and weighing;others bringing the wood to those rooms. Hours of work from fix to twelve, and from one to four. In extra-hours they make tobacco-boxes &c. which they fell to visitants, who pay two stivers to go in.

The

63

Amsterdam

Stadt-

MOVIS.

Racf-

Hu V IS.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

The four regents* who manage the Rasp-house are appointed by the burgomasters, to whom they are accountable. The gaoler or father is strictly obliged to obey all the orders of the high-officer, the burgomasters, and a!so of the regents. In no case may he, or any of his family, receive a gift from the prisoners or their friends, either before or after their enlargement. He imift not entrust a servant with the keys, but must himself carefully search the convicts and their,or rooms, before he locks them up in the evening, at fix o'clock in furamcr, and at four in winter. The father must never be absent a night, without special permission. He is (everely punished if any prisoner escapes. He must register in order all acts concerning commitments and discharges, and produce them to the regents when required. Also he must keep an exact register of the clothes, and all other things which belong to those confined.

The regents assemble in the house at four o'clock every Wednesday afternoon, to collect and examine the transactions of the preceding week. They appoint a servant to give any necessary assistance to the father, to cut the ft ices of bread for the prisoners; and when the father is ill, in the evening to visit ar.d examine the cots.

In the nine lower rooms of this house, in June 1778, were confined upwards of forty prisoners. Each of these rooms, in which they work in the day and are locked up at night, contains at least four persons. The fame prisoners do not continue long together, but are removed and separated once a fortnight or oftener. Few or none of them were rasping logwood, but most of them chopping it, for the two mills belonging to the house: for it was found to be too laborious for most of the prisoners, to work with fix or eight saws, wh.eh often weigh seventy or eighty pounds. The medical y' r,*b.rrr.cn, who daily visit the prison, informed the magistrates to at it had been the cause of frequent ruptures, f

It rr.4/ be proper to mention, that these regents have no salaries, but only

Cvr* \rv.\-.7K\ and honorary dirtinQions; as exemption from the city watch;

vw* 'A entrance after one of the city gates is tout; and a deacon's feat in

't I had this information from Mr. John Hope, one of their very worthy*' ar'^ him I am much obliged for copies of the rules and instruc-

r"w v - tli eff in-bmh, and the

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 6$

No friends of the prisoners are permitted to visit them, with- Avstm-out express orders from the regents, unless on Mondays: and RDAAS“_ then they must be searched, to prevent the introduction of nous*. spirituous liquor or instruments for breaking out, or any thing else forbidden: and they must retire before the time for (hutting up. Every visitant is obliged to put two stivers into a box intruded with the father. Refreshments may be received and given to the convicts on Tuesdaysj but not on other days*

Every evening, at eight o'clock, the father must fee that all things are in due order. The saws, and other heavy implements for their work, are taken from them in the evening, and returned in the morning. If a convict be guilty of breaking any thing considerable, or of neglect or disobedience, he is punished severely by whipping, or confined to bread and water in a dungeon under ground. On careful inquiry, I learned, that what has been said concerning a cellar in which such transgressors are put to pump or,is a fiction.

Prayers are read morning and evening, and before and after meals, by one of the best-behaved convicts: and divine service, with a sermon, is performed by a clergyman on Sunday mornings.

Once a year, a little before the change of the regency, the high-officer and magistrates, with a secretary, attended by the inferior officers of justice, come to this prison, in order to contrail or lengthen the terms of confinement of the convicts, according to their good or bad behaviour, as represented by the regents.

The house provides for the prisoners, diet,* clothes, shoes and stockings, withfhirts of half-bleached Flemish linen.

Some

The diet of the convicts in the Rasp-house at Amsterdam.

Sundry Breakfast. Three slices of rye bread with batter, and a piece of dry bread fix slices thick. (N.B. weigh halfa pound.)

Dinner or Noon. Half a pound of beef or pork, with beans, salt and vinegar, and in winter full two pounds of salt meat.

Mondry Breakfast. Six slices with butter, and a piece of bread of three slices thick.

Dinner. Gray pease with salt and vinegar.

Tuesday Breakfast. As on Monday.

Dinner. White or gray pease boiled in water with salt and sage.

Wednesday Breakfast. As on Monday.

Dinner. Boiled oats or barley with sweet milk and butter upon it.

Sopper. Butter milk, with oats or barley boiled in it.

F *7"kwjday

6o

FOREIGN PRISONS,

Some penons are confined in private rooms to which none r/sT- have accafs, un'els in the presence of a regent. Great care is otst. enjoined the father in conveying provinons to those prisoners.

With the regents leave, on Sunday mornings, some chapters of the Bible are read to them.*

Shk- The Spin-house is for women. This, and the work-house, house. are untjer tj,c direction of fix regents and four govemefies; who appoint two fathers and two mothers to superintend and inspect the work, the dlet,f and the lodging of the prisoners; and to chastise the di fobedient.

The work-room is a large room up stairs, separated by a wooden balustrade from the patTage (six feet wide) into which spectators are admitted. This room is divided by balustrades

Thursday Breakfast. Six fl'rrs c-f rye bread with better, and a piece of bread as on Sunday morning.

Dinner. Stocknux, with fwcct milk and better upon it.

Friday. As Tuesday.

Saturday BreaktaA. As Tuesday.

Dinner. As Wednesday (upper.

Their drink is four pints of beer daily. But eo holidays, t;x. two days at F after, Aftcrfix-dsy, two at three at the time, and two at Christmas, they have for dinnner, inaoksd or salt meat or bacon, beans or pcaie, carrots or cabbage, and the three fair days they have Arorg beer.

Thete are many of these rooms, or boufet of contnement in Holland called Vtthetrtlttitun. The regulations of some of them 1 eoliefted; but as they are liable to abuse, and contrary to the general notions of 1 cannot but

wiih that they were universally suppreded.

f The diet of the prisoners is as fellows. Sunday Dinner. Cot-cabbage with meat.

Supper. Butter milk.

Mzuday Dinner. White beans.

Supper. Sweet milk with barley, Tutjlty Dinner. Beans.

Supper. Butter milk.

M'eJnrjday Dinner. Gray peaie.

Supper. Butter milk.

H'urftlay Dinner. Barley.

Supper. Bread and beer.

Friday Dinner. White beans.

Supper. Butter milk.

Saturday Dinner. Beans.

Supper. Butter milk.

into

Sect. IV. HOLLAND.

into three, for distinguishing those who have suffered some public or corporal punishment, from the others who have not been whipped, and exposed on a scaffold.

The kitchen, the dining and lodging-rooms, were on the ground floor. In each of the three bed-rooms were ten wooden cases, with a straw mattress, two coverlets, sheets, and one large pillow, for two persons. All were clean, and shewed the attention of the regents.

In this house you fee a number of criminals (in 1776, there were thirty-two; in 1778, forty-six) some of whom had been the most abandoned, fitting in presence of the , quiet

and orderly at their different forts of work; spinning, plain work &c. Of the latter fort much is sent in from the city. They have the same holidays as at the Rasp-house. Hours of work from fix to twelve, and from one to eight. I favv them go from work to dinner: the keeper, or father as they call him, presided. First they fang a psalm: then they went in order down to a neat dining-room; where they seated them-, selves at two tables; and several dishes of boiled barley, agreeably sweetened, were set before them. The father struck with a hammer: then in profound silence all flood up; and one of them read with propriety, a prayer about four or five minutes. Then they fat down cheerful; and each filled her bowl, from a large dish which contained enough for four of them. Then one brought on a waiter dices of bread and butter, and served each prisoner.

The mother was seated at a desk (where she had a full view of her family at work) with a Bible before her.

As I staid longer than a common visitant, one of the prisoners went up to the mistress with the timid modesty of a suppliant, and asked leave to offer me the plate. The leave was granted. The mistress keeps what is given, till it amounts to a sum sufficient to purchase a little tea or coffee, for all to partake.

This house is supported by a finall annual tax on those who fell tobacco, beer and other liquors, and one fourth part of what is received at public exhibitions and

Here (as at some other towns in Holland) is a prison or work-house for slighter offences. This is called the old Rasp-house, and is worthy of observation, as a well-regulated house

F of

6/

Amsterdam

Spin-

house.

Tax.

Workhouse.

FOREIGN PRISONS

Amsterdam

*- of industry.* In one large room were forty-six women carding. Work- spinning and reeling; twelve, weaving coarse linen or fail-hou*e. doth; thirteen, making and mending linen; and one employed in keeping the room clean: the mother had a slate, with the names of the prisoners before her. f Some men and boys were in another large room, in which were many looms. But most of the men were at work in the courts, boiling and picking oakum, for calking the fcams of ships. I counted also forty or fifty women among them, at the same employment.

The women's bed-room is spacious; and I found it clean and in order, though I was there before ten o'clock in the forenoon.

This house was provided, with (what seems to be much wanted in the Dutch prisons,)an infirmary. But it was too small and close for the purpose.J

The diet of the prisoners i$ the same as in the Spin-house.§ Their provisions are bought in considerable quantities. The rye for bread was on the floor in an airy room, and was sweet and good. The produce of the prisoners work is applied to the maintenance of the house, and the deficiency is made up from the Spin-house tax. The expense for each prisoner is full five stivers a day. Their number is generally from a hundred and eighty, to two hundred.

Dol-rvi*. I wiu just mention the D, an hospital for the insane: because it would be a good plan for a bridewell, with the addi-

Here are confined beggars and vagabonds, who, for the first crime, are committed for six weeks; for the second, three months; and for the third, a longer period, or are banished, Drunkards also are here confined, and such as are guilty of petty larceny.

t Three fathers and three mothers are appointed to this house. One father has the direction of the house-keeping, and the other two oversee the manofa&ory. One mother manages the kitchen; and the office of the others is to keep the prisoners cleanly, and to take care of their bedding.

The mode of keeping patients extremely warm, and preventing the free circulation of air by close woollen curtains, occasions me to say so little respelling the infirmaries or hospitals in Holland.

Though in this house, and the Spin-house, as well as in most of the other hoofes of correction in Holland, the prisoners have meat only on Sundays, yet the pease, beans, barley, tec. are always made into a kind of thick feup or pottage, which is palatable, and is fcrvsd up hot at neon.

tion

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 69

n of working rooms. The ground plot is rectangular: the Amstxr-eper's house takes up one of the shorter Tides: the other three Do®.A,“ Il# es have, 00 the ground-floor, rooms in the recess of a walk li eight feet wide, under arcades;enclosed from the area or vrden by a wall to the height of four feet: the upper part to ie crown of the arch, open. Each person has a separate room iy feet high, and about ten feet square, with two doors: the inner ne is latticed j the outer, frequently Hands open. Over the oors is an aperture in the wall, about a foot square. These rooms re for the poor. Above are larger rooms for those whose friends: atv pay for them. Common visitants are not allowed to go up: out, injudiciously, every one that pays four stivers is admitted below. The windows all open to the court, none outwards.*

At the Hague I was honoured with the very polite assistance Hagux. of Sir Joseph Yorke. A magistrate accompanied me to the prison;where all was quiet and in order. The fame gentleman presented me with a copy of to the sheriff of the court;a copy of rules for officers of the attorney-general; and with a M. S. copy on several sheets, of forty-four rules for the management of the prison. The gaoler is never suffered to sleep out of the house, but with the express consent of the court, or the advocate &c. and when that leave is, on any special occasion, granted, he must provide a substitute approved by the court &c. This substitute is sworn to his temporary office. If any prisoner escapes, whether by the immediate fault of the keeper, or the fault of his servants, he is to suffer the punishment that was due to the prisoner. He may not keep a tavern or alehouse: nor play at cards c. with his prisoners: nor accept of any treat or gift from them, directly or indirectly, during their confinement or afterwards. He must keep the prison neat and clean: furnish fresh straw once a week j and in winter, coverlets. The attorney-general, or his deputy, is to fee that all this be duly performed. The keeper is to supply prisoners with good bread, soup, and beer.

In many of the towns in Holland I purchased the different sorts of bread of various bakers, not only to fee if the police was rtridt in that necessary article, but also to compare the prices with those of other places, and particularly of London.

At Amsterdam, June 5th, 1778, the two stiver loaf of white bread weighed ttaflly 16 mb. or 1 lb. — the one and half stiver loaf of rye bread, 10 c*.

— th eblack rye bread, a doit less than a stiver per lb. As eleven stivers is equal to

one shilling, the white bread is above two ter.ee a pound.

7o

Hague*

ClIOVIN-'GEN.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Those who pay eighteen stivers a day (or what other sum the magistrates shall allow them to expend) are to have provision proportioned to that price. Visitants are not permitted to be in the prison from eleven in the morning till two: and are dismissed in the evening at fix in summer, at four in winter. None to be admitted on Saturday: nor in time of divine service on Sunday. Candles to be taken away at nine. The keeper to guard against accidents by fire.

The rules for officers of the attorney-general, and of the sheriff, have an admirable effect in preserving peace, and order. There arc thirty-two of them. I cannot forbear abstracting a few. No officer to stir out of town without special leave: and while in town each must always give notice where he may be found. In case of fire, they must: immediately repair to the court-gate for instructions. Arrests of delinquents must be performed quietly. No officer to serve or watch instead of another. Neglect of duty through drunkenness is punished with living in prison on bread and water at their own expense for three days — eight days — and at last, with discharge. They may not keep company with any persons in public houses &c. Giving ill language is punished by a fine: quarrels, at difere-tion of the magistrates. Not giving information of defaulters is punished with discharge. They are to guard against being guilty of ill behaviour of any fort, that no dishonour may be call upon the court of judicature. Each officer to have a copy of the rules, and keep it to shew on demand, on pain of a fine. The whole to be read to them all together by the t'once a month.

At Groningen the Rasp and Spin-house together, has on the ground floor four rooms for men: in each is an aperture two feet by three and a half into the wool warehouse above.* These were lately made by the advice of a judicious physician (a professor) who thought the men's rooms not sufficiently airy, though they have opposite windows;the men deeping as well as working in them: on which account they are still somewhat often five. Women have a work-room, and a lodg-

My minutenefi with respect to measurements ami other circumstances relative to the cor.flrudlion and government of these buildings, will require no apology with th who consider, that in the formation of new cfhblishments it is of tile to be acquainted with many things which, though apparently trivial, are frequently of material conference to the purposes intended to be answered.

Sect. IV. HOLLAND.

ing-room quite separate: both of them very clean. All the prisoners are employed on a woollen manufacture.

At Lewarden the Rasp-house had in it thirty-four men: a few of them rasping logwood, with an inftfument composed of ten saws united: others combing and spinning black wool: others spinning twine; weaving sacks, and coarse linen cloth See. At their leisure they make (hoe-pegs, tobacco-(toppers, sugar-saucers of brass wire &c. and fell them to visitants. In the Spin-house adjoining, were thirty-six women: all at work, preparing thread &c. except one, whom the mistress, going up with me from her breakfast, found idle in a warehouse; and not only chided her for it sufficiently, but entertained me with her murmurs upon the offence a good while after;from whence I concluded the fault was not a very common one.

At Utrecht, in 1776, no prisoners in the Stadt-house; and in 1778, no debtors, and only one criminal, and his offence not capital. There has not been an execution for the city or province these fourteen years. The allowance for debtors, the first week, is twenty-eight stivers a day; the second week, sixteen; and every day afterwards, eight (livers.* The (late allows criminals thirteen stivers a day, which are paid to the gaoler. “ For,” as he told me, ‘c confinement here “ is not meant as punishment; but only as safe custody till “ trial.f After which, some who are to be punished by a “ short imprisonment are sent to another prison, where they “ live on bread and water only.” He said a woman who had been his prisoner, was that day sentenced to be so punished for a fortnight: but he added, “ She will have a sufficient quantity; and if (he be ill, her food will be altered.”

I went over the Spin-house with Mr. Van Goens, one of the magistrates, to whose kindness I am indebted for the following account of the instructions to the keeper. In this house were thirty-seven men, and thirty-four women. The criminals were employed in spinning wool. The men were three in a room. The women were separated, according to their crimes, as they are in the Spin-house at Amsterdam.

In the Ferbcterbuizena gradation isalfo observed in the alimentary allowance.

of- The fame observation I remember was made to me by the keeper at h'imeguen, where the allowance is ten stivers. There were no prisoners.

F 4 The

by

Lfwar-

DJU*.

Utricht

Stapt-

HOUSE.

Spin-

house.

7*

Utiicrt

Sfiw-

HOCftE.

DIV?H. Ul,

Middle.

BURG*

S? IK-

IiOU5L.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

The overseer or keeper has a house for the residence of himself and his family, and an annual salary of a thousand guilders from the states, and a hundred and thirty from the city, clear of all deductions. According to the copy of he

must not be absent a night out of the city, without leave from the chief officer and the regents. He must, with assistants, search every part of the cells twice a week, to fee whether any thing be done — attempted — or introduced, that is not permitted: and he must carefully inspect all things that are conveyed to the prisoners, that no tools, or glass, no or other strong liquors may be concealed: and he must himself, or one of his family, be present when any persons come to fee the house, and no more than fix visitants are to be admitted at one time. He must fee that the provisions for the prisoners be good; and take care that the manufacturer pays the same for their work, as he would if he employed others. He must confine those condemned for a long term, in strong rooms separate from the rest. He may correct moderately; but if the prisoners are refractory, and deserve severer punishment, he must inform the regents. By a particular permission from the magistrates, he may take in as boarders, persons of bad behaviour, at the desire of their parents, guardians or relations.

The regents only can appoint, or discharge, a servant, or turnkey.

At Deventer, the prison is near the river Iflel. It con-fists of four rooms, which were all clean and sanded, but had no prisoners. When there are any, sixteen stivers a day are paid for each j which the gaoler receives, as at most other towns. Prisoners for capital offences are removed to the Stadt-house, where the same allowance is continued.

The rooms in the prison at Middleburg are spacious, lofty, and clean. The three dungeons are used to force ,a confession; as there is no direct torture, and the criminal is not executed till the crime is confessed. The allowance to a criminal is eight stivers a day.

In the house of correction, the prisoners were employed in weaving cloth or sacking for the East India Company. This is more profitable than their late employment on coarse carpeting. None were in irons. No more than four persons were

in

West Fro at.

i

/ Ca/rag-es.

2.Jour// JVo/{ 13 \Great Jfb. jji. Zodg-/ng"j 1/ /Ceejtrr 6. /ttgenls,

7. IC/tobrn.

(f. Great Cou

p.Ci/tle Court. /O.Jfafohoeife. //.provision /^Drains.

Sect. IV. GERMANY. 73

in any of the men's rooms} in some there were but two. Each criminal pays three guilders at his entrance, and the same at his discharge.

The prison at Breda is an old tower. The allowance to criminals is five stivers a day. I was informed, that the torture-stool in the chamber of examination has not been used for three years past.

In the new house of correction were eleven men and two women prisoners, all employed on coarse carpeting;which is like the Scotch carpeting, but much cheaper. The specimen which I purchased, cost only eleven stivers, or a shilling their ell, which is two feet four inches. I here give the plan of the house taken by the builder, who has been particularly attentive to the construction of drains and sewers, which are of the.greatest importance to the preservation of the health of prisoners.

The old house of correction was burnt down about five years since, and seven women perished in the flames. In the con-itruction of the new prison, the magistrates have taken proper precautions against such an accident.

I leave this country with regret, as it affords a large field for information on the important subject I have in view. I know not which to admire moll, the neatness and appearing

in the prisons, the industry and regular of the prisoners,

or the humanity and attention of the magistrates and regents.*

GERMANY.

The Germans, well aware of the necessity of cleanliness in prisons, have very judiciously chosen to build them in situations most conducive to it; that is, near rivers: as at Hanover, Zell, Hamburgh, Berlin, Bremen, Cologn, Mentz, and many, other places.

I should accuse myself of ingratitude, did not I take this occasion again to express my acknowledgments to Sir Joseph Yorke; who, not only exerted himself with ardour to promote the success of my inquiries$ but while I was confined at the Hague in consequence of an accident at my last visit, favoured me with instances of kindness and friendship that I never can forget.

Bieda.

Spin-

house.

74 FOREIGN PRISONS.

In the gaols that I first saw, there were but few prisoners, except those called, improperly, One cause of

this, is a speedy trial after commitment.

The galley-slaves have every where a prison to themseves. They work on the roads, the fortifications, chalk-hills, and other public service; for four, seven, ten, fifteen, twenty years, according to their crimes: and are clothed, as well as fed, by the government. At Wefel, which belongs to the King of Prussia, there were ninety-eight of these (laves: they have two pounds of bread a day, and the value of three halfpence English every day they work.

I saw no under-ground dungeons in any of the ntw prisons in Germany, except at Liege: nor indeed in any other new prison abroad. At Lunenburg the dungeons are disused: and instead of them are built additional rooms up stairs j one for each prisoner. And in most of the gaols each criminal is alone in his room; which is more or less strong, lightsome, and airy, as the crime he is charged with is more or less atrocious.

One often fees the doors of sundry rooms marked Ethiopia, India, Italy, France, England, &c. In those rooms, parents, by the authority of the magistrates, confine for a certain term dissolute children: and if they are inquired after, the answer is, they are gone to Italy, England, &c.

I do not remember any prison in Germany (nor elsewhere abroad) in which felons have not, either from the public allowance, or from charities, somewhat more to live on than bread and water. In some places a person goes on market-days with a basket for prisoners: and I have seen him bring them a comfortable meal of fresh vegetables. But there are separate prisons, in which confinement for a week or two on bread and water is all the punishment for some petty offences. Perhaps, when a condemned criminal is only to live a day or two, such diet may be more proper than the indulgence with which the Germans, and other foreigners treat prisoners after sentence of death, which is commonly executed within forty-eight hours. The malefa&or has then his choice of food, and wine, in a commodious room, into which his friends are admitted j and a minifier attends him during almost all his remaining hours.

GERMANY.

75

Sect. IV.

I went into Germany in June 1778, by Ofnabrug and Hanover. The prison at Osnabrug I should entirely omit, did I not entertain a hope, that the account of it may possibly engage the notice of an amiable Prince who is the present, and so be the means of alleviating the sufferings of the miserable prisoners. The prison and the house of correction is one large building, situated in an airy part of the suburbs, near a brook. A Latin inscription over the gate implies, that it was erected “ at the public expense, in 1756, for the purposes of public justice and utility, by confining and punishing the wicked.” — There are seventeen chambers for criminals, which have no light but by a small aperture over each door. I was happy to find here no more than one prisoner. He had been confined three years, and had survived the cruelty of the torture. In another part of the house I found many miserable and lickly objects, men, women and children, almost all without shoes and stockings. They were spinning in different rooms, which were dirty beyond description. These rooms open into an offensive passage, which a gentleman in office in the city, to whom I was recommended, durst not enter. I inquired of the keeper concerning several particulars in the diet, &c. but the misery expressed in the countenances of the prisoners, made me totally disregard the information given me by words.

The prison at Hanover was built about thirty years ago. It is situated on the river Leyna. There are eleven strong rooms about ten feet square, and ten and a half high;with a bed of solid ft one in each, eleven inches from the ground, and nine inches higher at the head. Over these are larger apartments for debtors See. The rooms are warmed by stoves in winter. Criminals have a small chain: they are allowed straw to lie on, and two coverlets. When I visited the prison in 1776, there were seven criminals and one debtor; and in 1778, two debtors and three criminals. The keeper sells no liquors, but has a salary. In the council-chamber are all the various edicts in frames. There is a torture-chamber, but I with pleasure learned that the two cruel engines had not been used for four years.

At Brunswick I visited the habitation of the Haves, who lay on barrack bedsteads without beds. They had heavy irons, and their countenances were unhealthy.

Osna

UDC.

Hanover.

Brunswick.

Brunswick.

Lunenburg.

Ham.

BUKGMi

FOREIGN PRISONS.

The prison for capital offences is over one of the gates. It consists of three rooms, but none of them had been occupied for a considerable time. It was about eleven years since the last execution.

[Zell.]

At Zell, in the electorate of Hanover, is a large house of correction.

At Lunenburg, I found the convicts employed on a different work from any I had before seen; digging stone from a large chalk-hill called Kalck-Berg. Others were preparing it for the kiln, grinding, sifting, packing &c. in the warehouses. The calks are about three hundred weight. It is sent to Hamburgh and other distant places, as it makes an excellent cement. Many other men were employed;but the criminals, of whom there were thirty-one, had a chain of about four pounds. Their allowance was a pound and a half of bread, and three halfpence in money: provisions much cheaper than in England.

At Hamburgh, the felons in the were all in irons.

The common method of execution is decollation. The executioner, who is gaoler, {hewed me the sword which, he said, he had made use of eight times.

Among the various engines of torture, or the question, which I have seen in Franee, Italy, Germany, and other places, one of the most excruciating is kept and used in a deep cellar of this prison.

It ought to be buried ten thousand fathom deeper.* It is said the inventor was the first who suffered by it: the last was a woman, a few years ago.

Here, as at some other towns, is a prison for flight offences. The punishment, to be confined from a week to a month, and live on bread and water only. To prevent the prisoners having any thing else, what money they bring with them is.taken, and sealed up; but it is returned to them when discharged.

In this city, supposed to contain ninety thousand souls, there were but three debtors: and in the neighbouring town Altena, which belongs to the King of Denmark, but two.

It will perhaps be expected that I should say something of the houses of correction at the great and opulent cjty of Hamburgh. I was there near a week, and visited all the prisons -with every advantage, through the kindness of my friend,

See the Marquis Beccaria, Chap. XVI.

Sect. IV.

77

GERMANY.

Senator Voght. In the great house of correction, which is a work-house, and not reckoned , various kinds of

work were carrying on;as knitting, spinning, weaving linen, hair and wool, rasping logwood and hartfliorn. A regular book is kept of the earnings, one fourth of which, I was informed, was given to each, as they worked more or less. This house is governed by eight directors, who mull be married men. Two of them visit it every Wednesday and Saturday; on the latter day, along with the ladies, who deliver out the women's work, and have a room for that purpose. Many hundreds are confined here. In the great room I saw about three hundred women and girls, all busily employed, both times I was there. Although the house is situated near the Aider, and visited by ladies, I cannot say much in favour of its neatness or cleanliness.

In the Spin-house, which is accounted ,even the

men were not obliged to rasp logwood, but were employed in spinning, in more lightsome rooms than those of the other house. In this were seventy-three prisoners.

At Bremen the prison for debtors has four rooms; but the magistrate who accompanied me, Dr. Hornwinckel, assured me not one of them had been occupied for above thirty years, till very lately; when one was fitted up for a debtor, who was Confined in it a few weeks. Over the door of this prison is inscribed.

Hie fraudum terminus ejio.

That there were few debtors, or none at all, in such towns as Mentz, Coblentz, Manheim, &c. may be aferibed to their being places of but little trade. In such large trading cities as Hamburgh, and Bremen, it seems owing to the little credit that is given — the expense of aliment &c. falling on the creditor — the being deprived of every kind of amusement and diversion while in prison — and the disgrace of being the re.

Debtors are not permitted, in any German cities that I have seen, to have their wives and children living with them in prison.

The house of correction at Bremen, situated on the Weser, is indeed a house of industry; and very quiet. There were eleven men, and twenty-eight women, all at work; except a

Ham-

BURCH Vr OR JC-NOU3E.

Smn-

ItOUSE.

Bremen.

House of Correction.

FOREIGN PRISONS. 78

Barmen

House of Correction.

Magdeburg,

Berlin.

Woman who had broke her leg;. The stron^er and less docile

© o

men rasp logwood: others weave a set taflc of hair,&c. The keeper appoints a weaver in the house to instruct every new comer, who generally teaches him the art in a short time. The women's apartments were very clean: their work is spinning, knitting, &c. The keeper has a salary; and fells nothing.

I fat an afternoon with Dr. Duntze of Bremen, who told me he was in London in 1753 and 54., with an inquisitive friend, a German. They went into Newgate to observe the effects of the ventilator j and were struck with an offendve smell in one of the rooms. Next day they were both indisposed. The Doctor's complaint turned out a kind of jaundice. After a few days confinement he visited his friend, and found him excessively low j and in a short time he died with every fymp-tom of the gaol fever.

At Magdeburg the Prussian Haves were at work on the fortifications, serving the masons, digging sand, &c. Their daily allowance is two pounds of bread, and on the days they work, they have also in money, half a grofehe, about three farthings. Their number was only fifty-one, for many had been taken to recruit the army.

In the other two prisons, nothing seemed worthy of observation: but in the house of correction (which was formerly a convent) was a mill to grind or beat the logwood that the men rasped \ and two or three large chambers of , on

which the women attended.

At Berlin, in the city prison, called Calandjhof were eighteen men and thirteen women in fifteen rooms, in each of which was a stove. The men and women have the use of tke court at different hours. The allowance to each is one grofehe and twelve pfennigs, about two pence three farthings, a day. There is a chapel. There is no torture-room in any of the prisons in the Prussian dominions, for the present king has set the example in Germany of abolishing the cruel practice. In one of the rooms of this prison are alphabetically digested, the names and descriptions, with the sentences, of all who have been confined in that prison, in order that if they are found there a second time, they may suffer a much severer punishment.

Sect. IV. GERMANY.

In another prison, called the Haus-vogtey, are sixteen rooms; eight for criminals, and over these the other eight for debtors and smugglers: these rooms look into a court, to which the prisoners have access two hours in a day. All the rooms have stove$. The allowance here to criminals is one grosche (seven farthings) a day; but debtors have two grosche; and in winter, ofie 'besides for firing.

The Maison de Travail is a spacious building in the suburbs. It was erected about twenty years since; the front is two hundred and twenty feet, the sides a hundred and sixty: it has a court in the centre. The number of inhabitants were about four hundred and fifty, including fourteen children. Beggars, and idle persons of both sexes are sent to this house. Those who can work are employed, fed, and clothed; and proper care and attention paid to the aged and infirm. Each time I was there, I was pleasingly struck with the cleanly appearance of all the inhabitants. Old and young, men and women, were spinning and carding wool, in rooms about seventy-five feet by twenty-four. All have clean linen once a week; and I observed a towel hanging up in each room. The apartments are all white-washed once a year: this gives freshness and neatness, and also light to the work-rooms.' Here is a chapel with two galleries, one for each sex; and an apartment for the chaplain. The hall for meals is spacious: the hours, seven, twelve, and seven. I was present at dinner-time. After ringing a bell, in ten minutes all were seated at about twenty tables, eighteen to each table. Four separate tables were at a little distance for criminals. A servant having called out, silence, the school-master prayed at the desk, in the middle

of the room. And after all had helped themselves with barley soup,* while they were eating, he read part of a chapter in the Bible; then sung an hymn, in which the children, who were all at one table, joined: after which, all went out and fetched their cans9 each containing about a quart, and they were filled with small beer. The whole was conducted with the greatest regularity. After spending about half an hour at dinner, they had half an hour for recreation.

11 a fled the barley soup, the bread, and the beer, which were wholesome and good, and they had enough. They have butter or cheese with their bread, lor Cupper.

1

79

Berlin.

Maison De Travail.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Berlin.

Maison De Travail.

SPANDAU.

Lukao.

1

In the hall are morning prayers, at which all mud attend clean, and then they take their bread for breakfast.

This house resembles the old rasp or work-house at Amsterdam. It is exceedingly neat, and such great attention is paid to all confined in it, as prevents every ground of complaint. The strict and good police preserves the city of Berlin entirely free from beggars.*

At Spandau, about ten miles from Berlin, are two prisons. In that in the town, there were about a hundred and fifty persons, spinning, knitting, and carding wool. Forty-seven of these were men, committed for final 1 offences. They have meat only on Sundays in this and some other houses of correction. Here were some rooms with silk-worms, on which the female prisoners attended. Neither this, nor any foreign houses of correction which I have seen, are without a chapel.

The other prison, the fortress or castle, is surrounded with water. Thirty-six state prisoners were confined in it, and a hundred and five criminals. Some few of the latter were rasping logwood; the talk for each, thirty-six pounds a day: but most of them were spinning. The criminals were badly lodged, and there seems to be little attention paid to them. Here are none but men, for no women are ever permitted to continue a night in the castle. They had a light chain to each foot, and such as were taken after an escape had a collar of iron.

If I may judge, by what I saw of the state prisoners here, and at Magdeburg, and by the few prisoners in the spacious areas, all their apartments are not so dreadful as fomte imagine j nor are the persons confined in them unhealthy and miserable objects. f

The house of correction for Lusatia at Lukau, is a spacious prison. The men were treading in a large wheel to grind corn,

That the police is indeed Arid and extensive, 1 had some evidence by weighing the bread from various parts of the city$ all which exactly agreed with the assize or Aandard. In June 1778, the fine white bread was something above three halfpence a pound j and there was just double the weight of rye bread for the same money.

of- They are not all confined to a small quantity of bread and water, in cells of four feet square and six feet high, and loaded with seventy-eigh: pounds of iron, as the ingenious and intrepid Trenck was six years at Magdeburg,

GERMANY.

Si

five and five by turns. Some of them had iron collars, as at Bern, but no irons on their feet. The prison for the women was a distinct building; their employment was spinning.

At Dresden, the apartments for the slaves being under the D*e*dik. - fortifications, must be unhealthy. I saw four Tick, and yet they had their irons oh. Among those that were at work, one had an iron collar, by way of punishment, for making an escape, besides the broad iron about his leg. Another was fitting, and endeavouring somewhat to alter the place of his iron. He told me, that the weight was marked on it twenty-one pounds, and that he could not have it changed to the other leg without paying a smith.

Here are two other prisons. The house of correction has ten or twelve rooms, each about ten feet square, with one window, and an aperture over the door, and barrack bedsteads. There were ten prisoners, five of each sex. Three of the men were rasping logwood in a room down twenty Heps; and the other two were employed as labourers in building a chapel. This prison and the orphan-house, is, very improperly, one building.

The other prison for the bailliage, contains nineteen chambers, in which were twenty-six prisoners;mod of whom had i chain (some on one foot, some on both) fastened to a staple n the wall. The prison was dirty; and the gaoler's pan of "harcoal and frankincense (which his negligence rendered necessary) could not prevent its being very often five. Here was ^ne debtor, who had from his creditor fix grofehe (ten pence halfpenny) a day. The criminals allowance is one grofent 'about seven farthings) each.*

There was nothing very remarkable in the two prisons at Pa a cut. 'rague. The men at the Maison de,work out, with a ;uard, sawing wood, &c. for twelve f a day, which

On paying my acknowledgments to the grand bailiff for permitting me to fee ,e gaol, 1 took the liberty to observe, that I had seen prisons cleaner. I men-: oned also the severity of chaining women, which is very uncommon in other ountries..To this he answered, that “ the gaoler chained them for security,

eing often obliged to be absent in fetching prisoners from the country.” In ream, I gave my opinion that the attention to a prison ought to be the foie work: a gaoler, without which, little regard will be paid to cleanliness or humanity.

f A criutxer is near a halfpenny.

G

is

8l

P* AGtrz.

VlIKNAi

Hors* or

Cok SECTION.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

is less than the common wages of labourers. The prisoners themselves receive only four for a day's work, the rest is paid to the house. Many were thus employed, with chains to or both legs, according to the different terms of their confinement.

At Vienna I visited all the prisons, and most of the hospitals. The prisons are old buildings, and afford no instruction.

The front of the great prison. La de , is

remarkable for a very linking representation of the crucifixion of our Saviour and the two thieves on mount Calvary. In this prison are many horrid dungeons.*

In the Maison de Force, or house of, were a hundred and sixty-nine men, and a hundred and forty women. The women were employed in carding, spinning, and knitting. I was present on a Monday morning, when they brought their week's work, for which, after it had been weighed, they received their pay. They have all that they earn for themselves. A few received twenty-six creutzers each, others less. The keeper was employed in putting the name on the work of each prisoner, and setting down the money that was paid, and the cotton delivered. The prisoners saw the cotton weighed, and took as much as they could spin in that week.f At dinner time, several large pans of soup and beer were brought in, and the prisoners bought what they thought proper.

The prison was too much crowded, the house not being built for the purpose to which it is applied. In several rooms

Here, as usual, I inquired whether they had any putrid fever, and was answered in the negative. But in one of the dark dungeons down twenty-four ftrps, 1 thought I had found a pert'en with the gaol fever. He was loaded with heavy irons, and chained to the wall areuiih and misery appeared with dotted tears on his face. He was not capable of speaking to me; but on examining his bread and feet for fauH* or spets, and finding he had a throng intermitting pulse, I was convinced that he was not ill of that diferder. A prisoner in an opposite cell told me, that the poor creature had detired him to call out for affiilance, and he had done it, but was not heard. This is one of the kid of dungeons.

f In the holidays, when the prisoners are no: permitted to work, each has aa allowance cl four or five cmjiun,

t One or two of the women were cry ing, and charging ethers with riling in th- right and rtealirg forrre of tfeir cotton. The r^.-r believed the complaint, cot able to prevent such frauds, because there was not the coo.

- a,

Sect. IV. GERMANY.

the men were carding and spinning. In one room, some of them, who were tailors, were making clothes for the soldiers: in an* other, some were weaving coarse linen at eight looms: and in another room, they were making thick blankets for the convents. Two more rooms were warehouses for cloth, stockings, coverlets, &c. manufactured in the house for sale. They were then white-washing the house.* In the chapel is a proper separation of men and women. Here, and at Prague, and in Fome other parts of Germany, they have iron-grate doors, which do not prevent the circulation of air, so salutary and necessary m houses of confinement. Too little attention is paid to the lodgings of the prisoners, for they have no coverlets.

Though I could not mention with commendation the prisons of this city, yet I must acknowledge, I was greatly pleased with the public buildings for the , the aged, and infirm\

Which do honour to the citizens in general, and especially to the Empress Queen.

The great elms-koufe in the suburbs consists of three courts. The front of this spacious building is six hundred and thirty-seven feet; the sides, eleven hundred and fifty-three. The inhabitants are near three thousand, including the military invalids. It was agreeable to observe their order, neatness, and cleanliness. Here poverty and old age appeared with a finding afpeCh Many of them were seventy or eighty years of age. They were cheerfully spinning, because whatever they could gain was to be their own.

Les Freres de Charite have not only wards for the sick in their convent, but these friars have also another airy and commodious house with gardens, to which they remove their patients when they begin to recover. In this were two wards up stairs, and each ward has fourteen beds.

The noble Hospital for bringing up , was the plan

of one person, whom I left engaged in the improvement of his liberal design. In sixteen rooms for boys, were five hundred and thirty-nine beds, and two hundred and forty-one in eight

I* the general rule In Dutch and German houses of correction, to white-soofli them once or twice a year. 1 seldom neglected to inquire about this practice, as we have a clause relative to it in a late act for preserving tbt health of pri-

(tmtri in gaol.

83

Vienna.

Alms-

house.

Hosr t-

TALS.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

« Viekica. rooms for girls. The extent of the front is six hundred and sixty-two feet.

In the great alms-house, and in several prisons and other public buildings, the rooms are all arched with stone or brick, to prevent danger and confusion in case of fire.

Before I leave this city, I would just mention that every month, an account of the price, weight and measure of bread and Jioury is put up on the gates.

Cratz. At Gratz (the capital of Stiria) I observed in the house of correction, that the prisoners had an appearance far more healthy than those I had seen in a similar house at Vienna. They have beds and coverlets, and the guards fee that the men take off their clothes at night.

I#avxa'C8. I omit particulars concerning the prison at Laubach ill Carniola, as I cannot say a word in favour of it.

Trizstx. At Trieste, the prison consists of eight or ten very close offensive rooms, each having only one small window. The pale countenances of the nineteen prisoners bespoke their own misery, and the negligence of the magistrates and keepers.

But in the Castle were eighty-five slaves (Condannati) who seemed healthy and well. They were confined for three, five, seven, or fourteen years and upwards; and were employed on the roads, in the harbour, &c. Some of them were at work in a large lighter,f clearing the harbour, just under my chamber

The bills I observed were dated July 1, 1778. Seven sorts of bread were mentioned in them. The fir eft was (by my weights) exa£Hy one pound for three halfpence of our money. The ftcond fort was one pound and fix ounces for a penny. Inferior forts made of rye were cheaper. At the prices were,

white bread, 1802.] banfchild, lib. j rye bread, lib. 11 ox. and balf — ioi one or seven farthings. 1 commonly examined the price, and the strictness of this part of the police, in most large cities that 1 vifued, to compare them (as 1 said) with our own at London.

The bakers at Vienna are punished for frauds by the severity and disgrace of the ducking-stool. This machine of terror, fixed on the side of the Danube, is a kind of long pole or board extending over the water, at one end of which the delinquent, being fattened in his basket, is immersed. The bakers would gladly purchase a removal of this machine, but the punishment is continued, and in-

fixed on delinquents by order of the

f- Two wheels were fixed in the lighter, one of them to draw back the scoop rr locket, *nd the other (by the weight of ten men treading in it) to raise the mud,

which

Sect. IV. GERMANY.

ber window. To prevent their escaping, they were guarded by fix soldiers. They did not work harder, than other labourers would in the same employment. Their hours for work were from' five in the morning till between five and six in the afternoonj but they had two (from eleven to one) allowed them for rest, and half an hour more sometime before they left work. They appeared healthy, clean, and strongj and laboured cheerfully, because when they were employed, each of them received, as extraordinary pay, three farthings a day. Their common allowance was two pounds and a half of bread and four farthings a day. I heard them called over, and saw them receive their pay, before they entered their chambers in the castle. Their bread was sweet and good, such as I should have been happy to have found in many parts of my tour. They were treated with humanity, though under strict discipline; were well supplied with food and clothes j had two shirts, two pair of stockings, &c. and they lay in good beds* with coverlets, in large airy rooms having opposite windows, and not, like many convicts, in close dirty dungeons under the fortifications. But they were distinguished from other labourers by a light chain on their legs, and a chain supported by a girdle of leather at their waists.

which was then emptied into another lighter managed by the overseer of the work. Three or four times a day, a soldier (with a bayonet fixed on his musket) accompanied a convict, who went to fetch a tub of fresh water, and on his return he supplied each with a tumbler of it while they were at work in the wheel. By the malt of the other lighter, a fail was spread to shade them, the weather being t varm, Farenheit's thermometer 85°.

May not one great cause of the unhealthiness of our prisoners be, the want of proper bedding, which obliges them to lie in their clothes ? How different did these prisoners appear at the castle from many that I have seen in Prussia and at Vienna ! I was struck with the same good appearance of the prisoners at

several of the spin-houses in Holland. This reminds me of what I heard an old “ general say, “ That he always found his men subject to illness and diseases “when they lay in camps, not from dampness, but from lying in their clothes and the want of prefer bedding j for at the same time all his officers had been quite “ healthy and well.” Whatever be the cause of this difference, whether a more free perspiration in bed, taking off bandage or ventilation of the clothes, I am fully convinced of the fan.

g3

85

Tkixstc.

ITALY,

96

FOREIGN PRISONS,

ITALY.

I entered Italy with raised expectations of considerable information, from a careful attention to the prisons and hospitals, in a country abounding with charitable institutions and public edifices.

[Venice.]

At Venice, the great prison is near the s palace,* and it is one of the strongefi: I ever saw. There were between three and four hundred prisoners, many of them confined in loath-fbme and dark cells for life; executions here being very rare. There was no fever, or prevailing disorder in this close prison. None of the prisoners had irons. On weighing the bread allowance, I found it fourteen ounces. I asked some who had been confined many years in dark cells, whether they should prefer the galleys ? They all answered in the affirmative: so great a blessing is light and air ! The chapel is only for the condemned, who continue there a night and a day before execution.

Regulations were hung up in the prison. — Here is a charitable society established for the relief of prisoners both civil and criminal, and rules are published for the direction of the officers who have the management of it, of whom four are appointed visitors of the prison. There are likewise rules for the good government of the two infirmaries. These I procured from the ducal printer, with the regulations for the galleys and prisons, for many years part:

One of the galleys was moored two boats length from the shore, in which were only twenty-seven (laves, who were kept here in order to be sent on board the other galleys. This was clean. Here, and in the other r, which were dirty and crowded, the (laves were in chains of about twenty-seven pounds weight, f

The rooms for the fate prisoners are over part of the palace on the leads, which renders confinement in the heat of summer almost intolerable.

1"*a slave dead on the shore, who 1 suppose destroyed himself in despair; for ic could not hope to escape by swimming, because of his heavy irons.

Sect. IV. ITALY.

I visited the prisons of Padua and Ferrara. In the for- Padua. mer of these cities, none of the confined debtors would fit on the elevated JloneJiool* in the great hall; and I was informed that not one had submitted to the ignominy these ten years.

At Bologna are three prisons; one of which is for debtors, Boiocna. who are alimented after four months and three days confinement, at one paule (about six pence) a day each.

The hospital, S. Maria dt Vitay afforded me great pleasure. Hosr i-

All was clean j and the wards were lofty, and not in the least TAL' offensive. The wards of the men and women were of the same size, each containing thirty-eight beds, nineteen on each side.

The bedsteads were of iron, and the coverlets were white and clean. Each ward had fourteen windows, seven on a side, and all had curtains. They had folding wooden casements i and on the outside, wire lattices.f

In Florence are two prisons. J In the great prison, Palazzo Fr.o-degV OttOy were only twenty prisoners. Six of them were in *ENC*‘ the secrete chambers, which are twenty-one strong rooms. None of the prisoners were in irons. They had mattresses to lie on.

Their bread was good. In the torture-chamber, there was a machine for decollation, which prevents that repetition of the stroke which too often happens when the axe is used.

In the other prison, Dellt Stinche, there are five doors to pass before you come to the court. The opening of the first is three feet wide, and four feet nine inches high, with an inscription over it, Oportet mifereri, (We ought to be compassionate.) In

This is sometime* called the flow of diff ract; for if they who are insolvent would avoid imprisonment, at a time fixed they mud fit upon it in a disgraceful manner three times.

f The wards of this hospital were thirty-two feet and a half wide, and the beds were three feet two inches wide, and three feet eight inches asunder. In the middle of each space of the wall between the beds was a cupboard, with a shelf, concealed by a small curtain j and over each curtain was a flip of black marble with the number of the bed. On the Tides of all the wards, for the convenience of opening and (hutting the windows, was a gallery eighteen feet above the floor, and two feet broad, with a light rail two feet nine inches high. The doors to the wards were iron grates, five feet five inches wide.

t Dr. Targioni, who had an order from his Royal Highness to inspect the hospitals, and report what beneficial improvements might be made in them, accompanied me in visiting these prisons.

G 4 this

8*

Flo-

KINCl,

Hospitals.

V

FOREIGN PRISONS.

this prison are many spacious rooms, in which are small benches, or cribs to lie on. The men's rooms are below, and look into the court, which is about forty-three feet square. The women, entirely separated, are up stairs, and have an hospital joining to their room. A new infirmary for the men (forty-four feet by twenty-nine) is contiguous to the chapel. In this prison were forty-two men and fourteen women. Debtors are not separated from criminals. In one room were eight, who paid for their beds. The bread was good: the daily allowance to each, fifteen ounces. None were in irons. The chaplain has apartments, and resides in the gaol.

The great hospital of S. Maria Nova was crowded, and too closej though the men's fever ward was four hundred and fifty-four feet long, and thirty feet and a half wide. They have separate wards for wounds and fra&ures. The women are attended by the Nuns, who have a passage under ground from the opposite convent. Here are twenty students, who lodge and board in the house for seven years, attend the sick, serve the victuals, f &c. and are distinguished by a long cloak.

But the hospital which I most frequently visited, was S. Giovan di Dio. J The afeent into the sick ward is by a flight of thirty stone Heps. This ward was lofty and clean j and was a hundred and twenty-three feet long, and thirty-three and a half wide. There were in it thirty-three beds, three feet four inches wide, placed on varnished boards, on iron bedsteads.§

Neither the sides nor floors of this, and the other hospitals of Italy, were wood, that being more retentive of feents or infection than tarras or brick. At one end there are five rooms with single beds for sick priests. Three of them were occupied.

This prison has something similar to the plan I proposed. A waU surrounds three sides of it j but being very high, and only eleven feet and a half distant, it

tenders the prison too close.

\ I saw a friar or tepudin come in form and blrft the meat or soup for diner. The numerous patients seemed entirely satisfied with thit, without any devotion of thir crn,

t The great attention of this order of friars to the sick, in every country where they have hospitals, docs them honour.

This is very conducive to cleanliness, and secures patients from vermin.

Sect. IV. ITALY. tg

The hospital S. Paolo della Convalefcenza, for the reception Flo. of recovering patients, has clean and airy apartments, and a spacious refectory, or dining hall. They continue here four days, and by the change q£ air and diet their health is confirmed before they go to their several occupations.

Here I would just mention an alms-house, S. Bonifazio, for infirm persons of advanced age. It has eighty beds for each sex, and they are fitting up twenty more. The wards are (thirty feet wide) all clean, and shew the care of the Nuns who attend on this charity.*

In the prison at Leghorn were three , and eight of Leghorn.

those called prisoners at large, and in the secrete three criminals.

I mention this prison because of the infirmary, which, as appears by an inscription over the door, was built at the expense of the present governor, Philip Borbonio, in 1761.

The slaves in the fortress appeared,healthy, and well 5 Fort*i*. better, as the old keeper remarked, since they have lain on fture. J Each prisoner had a ring round one leg; but when they go out to work, a. chain is rivetted to two prisoners. Here were seven pontons to clear the harbour; but the weather, when I was there, being stormy, they could not ibe worked.

There were forty-seven slaves employed at the new,

which is a noble spacious building, with different apartments for officers and their men to perform quarantine, and large warehouses for the cargoes of their ships.

The old keeper generously ordered his son to copy for me all the rules, from which I shall here give some extracts.

Three keepers have their salary from the Grand Duke. They receive a copy of the process against every convict, carry it to the government, and register it in the proper bookj and when required, they must give an exact account of all proceedings against the prisoners. They make a report of the refractory

1 cannot leave Florence without expressing my great obligations to the Grand Duke for his permission to inspe£l the prisons j and making my acknowledgments to Sir Horace Mann our ambassador, for his very kind attention and assistance.

f In this fortress, there were a hundred and thirty-two slaves: at Pisa, were eighty-five: and at the Grand Duke's salt-works at Port Ferrara, seventy.

t Galleys or hulks ought to be the punishment only for the most atrocious crimes.

to

1

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Lkshoin to government, that they may be punished in proportion to FokTKzii. their offences, with severer confinement, irons, and baftina-does. The principal keeper has power to choose two turnkeys out of the best-behaved prisoners, who are to exhort and instruct the others: but the keeper is to have a strict watch over them. He must order that all prisoners, when they are brought in, have their heads Jhaved — be dressed in the uniform of the house — and have irons on their feet.

The prisoners are condemned to labour, for thirty, twenty, ten, or seven years, or for a shorter term, according to the nature of their crimes; and are chiefly employed on the public works. They are sent out every morning, under a guard of soldiers, and are chained two and two together, with a chain of about eighteen pounds weight. An hour's relaxation is allowed them at breakfast, and two hours in the afternoon: and at an hour before sun-set, they are reconducted to the piifon, and must be well searched by the keepers, to prevent their having any thing concealed: and two hours after sun-set, they are ordered to go quietly to rest. When they are employed on the works by his Royal Higness, they are paid two crazzies (about three halfpence) a day;but if employed by other persons, they are paid four or six , according to the nature of the work. At day-break, the turnkeys ring the bell to awake them: and a report is made by them to the keepers, if any have been guilty of irregularities during the night. Their daily allowance is a loaf of thirty ounces (which is made two thirds of flour, and one third of bran*) and soup made from four ounces of pease boiled in water, with salt and oil. On each of the two Easter holidays they are allowed a pound of meat, and three ounces of rice. Every two years they have a coat of gray cloth, a waistcoat of red cloth, and a red cap; every year a pair of shoes; and every six months a shirt, and a pair of drawers or breeches. Their drawers are shifted once a month, their {hirts every week. For lodging, they have a mattress filled with straw, and a coverlet: the straw is changed, and kept in good order.- — If one attempts to

Their bread was very good. I preferred it to that which I met with at my

lodgings.

desert.

Enf.-tipf-

Sect. IV.

ITALY.

91

desert, and be taken before sun-set, he mull wear a ring, and Leghorn a chain of eighteen pounds weight; and he mull pay half his Fortkbsi« future earnings, till it amounts to a ,* to those that apprehended him. If they who are condemned for five years de&rt, when retaken, their term again commences: and for repeated desertions, they are more severely punished, and sometimes tortured.

The chaplain mull instruct the prisoners.

In the hospital there mull be all proper provisions for the sick and infirm, viz. veal, mutton, rice, fine bread, broth, good wine. Sic. A physician attends, and the diet and medicines mull be according to his prescription. On entering, the patients have clean linen, shirts, night-caps, and clothes. And the keepers and turnkey mull examine their vidua!s and soup, to fee that they be good, and that the quantity be according to the physician's orders.

At the great prison at Rome, called the New Prison,f at Rom*. the back of which runs the Tiber, on a Hone tablet over the door, is this inscription:

JUSTITIJE ET CLEMENT!

SECURIORI AC MELIORI REORUM CUSTODIES NOVUM CARCEREM INNOCENTIUS X. PONT. MAX.

POSUIT ANNO DOMINI MDCLV.

To Justice and Clemency,

For the more secure and better custody of criminals,

Pope Innocent X. erected this New Prison,

In the year of our Lord 1655.

On the ground floor; On one side are the Haves for the galleys at Civita-vecchia: on the other side is a sort of cook's (hop, and a tap-room, over which are the women's apartments, five of whom were in the secrete chambers, and twenty more at

A zecbin is about 95. 3 </.

+ The elegance and simplicity of the front of this prison occasioned me to give a plate of it.

91 Rome. FOREIGN PRISONS.

large. — There are eighteen of these strong rooms for the men, which are close and offensive, each of them having but one window for admitting light and air. These rooms are never opened without an order from the governor of the city. There were sixty-eight prisoners. They are not permitted to go out of their rooms at any time, but for examination. — Some having been confined there many years, appeared with pale sickly countenances j but none were in irons.

Here is a chamber for distracted prisoners, in which were (even miserable objects.

There are several chambers with beds for those who are called prisoners at large, for which each pays one paule and a half (about eight pence) a night. There is a chamber for priejls, one for boys, one for Jews, and one for prisoners who have cutaneous disorders.

On the upper floor are two infirmaries: one, appropriated to the prisoners in the secrete, in which were four patients. In the other, which is for the rest of the prisoners, were ten patients the first time I was there, and the last time only .* The whole prison is arched with brick, for security in case of fire. The passages are seven feet two inches wide, and light. The afeent to each story, is by two flights offione steps. These staircases are seven feet three inches wide; the rises, five inches: this I mention, as generally, in our prisons (even those that are lately built) the stairs are narrow, the rises high, and the passages dark and inconvenient. I wifti I could say I had seen no torture-chamber, f

In the prison at the Capitol are two rooms for poor, and for criminals whose offences are not so great as to cause them to be confined in the secrete. The prisoners in one of these rooms, have the privilege of afldng alms of the passengers.

This infirmary is a spacious airy ward, seventy-three feet by twenty-three, with seventeen beds, three feet three inches asunder j was clean, and had every thing proper for the sick.

+ There is a table of regulations by the authority of the magistrates hung up in this prison, ordering the exact times, of opening the prison and the court of saying mass daily, and of distributing the alms. The times vary twice in a month, according to the different length of the days. In the same table, the physician is ordered to visit the sick in the infirmary every morning; and in case of extraordinary illness. in the evening.

Sect. IV. ITALY.

There were five debtors in rooms which they paid for, and two criminals in the secrete. This prison is not offensive. There is a constant current of water through one of the large rooms.

The Hate prisoners are confined in the castle of San..The rooms appropriated to that purpose were all empty, except one, in which was a bishop, who had been confined upwards of twenty years, and was distracted. Here were also eighteen condannatiy who work in the fortress, and had each a light chain. They seemed healthy and well.

On the death of the Pope, the prisoners are brought hither from the great prison, for upon such occasions the prisons arS thoroughly cleaned.

I can give but little information respecting the prison of the inquisition. It is situated near the great church of St. Peter's. On one side of the court round which it is built, is the inqui-fitor-general's palace. Over the gate is an inscription importing “that it was erected by Pope Pius V. in the year 1569.” The windows of the prison have wooden blinds, and at a small difiance is a high wall.*

In this city, and many others in Italy, is a Confraternita della misericordia, called S. Giovanni di Fiorentini. f It consists of about seventy, chiefly nobles, of the bell families. After a prisoner is condemned, one or two of them come to him the midnight before his execution, inform him of the sentence, and continue with him till his death. They, with the confessor, exhort and comfort him, and give him his choice of the most delicious food. All the fraternity attend the execution, drafted in white. When the prisoner is dead, they leave him hanging till the evening; then one of the fratemity9 generally a,cuts him down, and orders him to be conveyed to the burying-place which they have appropriated to malefa&ors, I was there the twenty-ninth of August, the only day in the year

The chambers of this JUent and melancholy abode were quite inaccessible to me; and yet I spent near two hours about the court and the prieAs apartments, till my continuance there began to raise suspicion.

+ Many of Florentine extraction were the founders. This inAitotion is ancient, for the church of <$. Cio. Battifla Decollate belonged to them in 1450.

when

93

Romx.

San*

Angelo.

94-

Rome;

San.

Michele,

FOREIGN PRISONS.

wheii this burying-place is opened to the public. — Adjoining an elegant church is a chapel, which makes one side of a court, and on each of the other three sides, is a portico supported by Doric pillars. In the middle of the pavement* of the front portico the women, and in one of the side porticos the men are buried. The latter are interred in the same dress in which they were hanged; for in Italy, coffins are not in general use.

The hospital of S. Michele is a large and noble edifice. The back front is near three hundred yards long. It con fills of several courts with buildings round them. In the apartments on three sides of one of the most spacious of these courts, are rooms for various manufactures and arts, in which boys who are orphans or destitute are educated and instructed. When I was there, the number was about two hundred, all learning different trades according to their different abilities and genius. Some were educated for printers, some for bookbinders, designers, smiths, carpenters, tailors, shoemakers, and barbers; and some for weavers and dyers, a cloth manufacture being carried on here in all its branches. When the boys arrive at the age of twenty years, they are completely clothed, and a certain sum is given to set them up in the business they have learned. In the middle of the court is a noble fountain, and there are several inscriptions to the honour of the founders of this excellent institution.

Joining to another court are apartments for the aged and infirm, in which were two hundred and sixty, and two hundred and twenty-six women. Here they find a comfortable retreat, having clean rooms and a refectory. I converted with some of them, and they appeared happy and thankful.

Another part of this hospital is a prison for boys or young men. Over the door is this inscription:

Here are marble squares, In which are circular apertures for the interr of those that are executed. Round these Rones is inscribed,

€f Domine, cum veneris juJicare, v '

ft Noli nos condtmnart 0 Lord, when thou Shalt come to judge, do not condemn us.

T.IV,

ITALY,

95

CLEMENS XI. PONT. MAX.

PERDITIS ADOLESCENTIBVS CORRIGENDIS INSTITUENDISqUE UT QUI INERTES OBERANT INSTRUCTI REIPUBLIC JE SERVIANT AN. SAL. MDCCIV. PONT. IV.

Pope Clement XL For the correction and infruClion Of profligate youth: '

That they9 who when,were,

When intrrusted, might be useful^

To the .;

1704.

In the room is inscribed the following admirable sentence, which the grand purpose of all civil" policy relative to

D iminals is expressed.

PARUM EST COERCERE IMPROBOS POENA

Sft NISI PROBOS EFFICIAS

DISCIPLINA.

It is of little advantage To refrain the Bad By Punishment, Unless you render them Good

By Dif.

Here were fifty boys spinning, and in the middle of the room*

J\inscription hung up,

SILENTIUM.

Roms

S.

Michele*

35

In this hospital is a room also for women. On the outside*an inscription, expressing, that it was erected by Clement II. in 1735, for refraining the licentiousness and punishing the Ur~ imes of women.

This room being different from any I had before seen, 1 had a plan taken, hich may give a clearer idea of it than a verbal description would do.

There

1 4

Rome

Hosri-

TALI,

Civita-

vecchia.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

There are in Rome many hospitals for the {ick., but they were in general crowded, yet none of them had more than one patient in a bed. In the great hospital of San Spirito in Sofia* there were, the first time I visited it, a thousand and fifteen patients j the second time, eleven hundred and three, f

The hospital of S. Gio Laterano was also crowded and offen-five j and that of S. Giacomo dcgV Incurabili was worse: J but that called Benfratelli, that for the , that of S. Maria

della Confolazione, § were clean, and perfectly free from any

offensive feents. In this last mentioned hospital, no patients are received except such as have wounds or fra&ures. The

Gallicano, another hospital in this City, is solely for cutaneous disorders.

Before we take our leave of Rome, it may be proper just to mention the Hospital for pilgrims and convalescents. Recovering patients, when dismissed from the other hospitals, may enter into this, and reside here three days, lodge in airy wards, dine in the refe&ory, and be well attended.

The Pope's galleys are at Civita-vecchia. The (laves condemned to them are confined for different terms, according to the nature of their crimes: but the shortest time is three years for vagabonds, who are generally employed on board the pontons in clearing the harbour. For theft, the term is never under seven years. Persons convicted of forgery are always

Formerly many nations founded hospitals in this city. This was founded by one of our Saxon kings. Some others continue to the present time entirely national, as the Milanese, Florentine, and Spanish hospitals.

f Here is a staircase remarkable for its afeent being very easy, for valetudinarians, and for carrying up the lick in a kind of chairs or beds. It is

seven feet wide, and has a rail on each side: every step is an inclined plane of three inches afeent, one foot eight inches wide, and the rife from one step to another is only three inches. These lteps are of bricks, set edgeways, and fronted with stone.

X Indeed I saw the hospitals under great disadvantages, it being a very sickly time, occasioned by the long continuance of drought, and the extraordinary heats of the funruner 1778.

4) At night, two chains are put across the street over-against this hospital, by an order of Pope Alexander VII, in 1661, for the purpose elegantly expressed in the inscription,

Nc pratertvr.ieftrefitu $uies Omr.ins ab crgro: er.: ibus txularct,

Sect. IV. ITALY.

confined for life; and if found guilty of forging bank-notes, or any instruments by which large sums have been loft, they are punished with an iron glove. Prisoners for are chained two and two together: those for limited terms have all a single chain, and, at their first arrival, of the same weight j but when they have no more than one or two years to serve, they have only a ring round their leg, which is lessened as the end of their term approaches. For escapes, they are obliged to finish their first condemnation, and then receive a frefti one for the same time as the former;but if the first was for life, the same is renewed, and they receive from a hundred to two hundred lafties a day, for three days after their arrival. Noi: e to the galleys under the age of twenty: criminals of a younger age are kept at the hospital of S. Michele in Rome till they are of age; and are there employed in spinning, and fed on bread and water. '

The allowance to each slave is three pounds of bread a day; and fifty-five pounds of beans or calavances to each galley, with which they generally make a kind of soup once in two or three days, and they are allowed two pounds and a half of oil to boil with their beans. At Easter, Christmas, and Carnival, they are allowed one pound of beef and half a pint of wine a man, and twenty-five pounds of rice to a galley.

For their clothing, they have once in two years, a striped woollen capotto and waistcoat, two shirts, two pair of canvass breeches, and a woollen cap; and every year, two feet and a half of woollen cloth to wrap round their legs instead of stockings. The yearly expense of each slave for maintenance, clothing, and chains, is computed at fifteen Roman crowns and eighty-seven baiocs, about fj: 13: 9.

At the time of my being at Civita-vccchia, three of the galleys were out on a cruize, and two only remained.

Through the whole night there was great silence, though about four hundred were chained in each of the galleys.

The staves here are constantly employed, and have what they earn for themselves, being paid according to their abilities and the nature of their work. For sawing in the arlenal, they are paid two pence a day each;for working as masons, two pence halfpenny j for carrying stones and mortar, only a

H penny.

97

Cl VII A —

VECCH1A.

9? FOREIGN PRISONS.

c i v i T*- penny. Such as work at the

VKCCHIA.

are paid from two pence to eight pence, according to the quality of the work, &c. At the public works they are allowed an hour for dinner, and in summer-time an hour for breakfast.* Here is a spacious hospital on Shore for the slaves. None were in irons. All was clean. In the centre of the great room in this infirmary was an altar for public worship. A particular room was appropriated for such as had cutaneous disorders, and another for consumptive patients, f Kaflxs. The principal prison in the great and populous city of Naples J is La Vicaria, under the courts of justice. It contained when I was there, according to the gaoler's account, nine hundred and eighty prisoners. In about eight large rooms communicating with one another, there were five hundred and forty sickly objects, who had access to a court surrounded by buildings so high as to prevent the circulation of air. In this court was a recess, under arcades like those under the chapel at Newgate. Some of the prisoners were employed in knitting, and others in making shoes;but most of them were entirely without employment. In fix chambers, which opened into a spacious hall, were many beds for such as could pay for them. Adjoining was a chapel, and a spacious infirmary for the whole prison }§ in which, were forty persons, in single beds, with sheets, coverlets, &c. In seven close offensive rooms were thirty-one prisoners, almost without clothes on account of the great heat:

For the preceding account I am Indebted to our countryman Mr. Denham,

who hat the superintendence of the Pope's galleys.

f In this country, the physicians are persuaded that the is conta-

gious disorder. Patients afflicted with it in hospitals have a separate ward. The fame precautions are used to prevent infection as in the plague. When this disorder has been in private houses, the furniture is removed, and the rooms are feraped and fumigated, before they are again inhabited.

An account is taken every year of the inhabitants of this city; and at Easter 1777, their number was 350,0615 of whom 164,545 were males, and 160,07c females, besides 3503 priests, 4231 monks, and 6311 nuns.

S In visiting the prisons of Italy, I observed, that in general great attention was paid to the Tick; but 1 could not avoid remarking, that too little care was taken to yrrvtnt sickness.

From the heat of the climate, one might imagine the would be very

'ly to prevail j but, 1 did not find it in any of the prisons.

Sect. IV. ITALY. 99

and in aix dirty rooms communicating with one another, were Naths. fifty women. Of all the prisoners, one man only was in irons, in a dungeon, near a small chapel which is allotted to the condemned before execution.

The bread was good: the daily allowance to each was twenty-two ounces.

There were three other prisons: one contained eighty prisoners, another near sixty, the other but eleven.

The galleys were moored about ten feet from the shore. In Cailiti. the jrrjl were two hundred and sixty slaves; in the,two hundred and ninety-eight; in the thirds two hundred and seventy; and in the fourth, four hundred;most of them flout and healthy. All were chained two and two together. Their bread was hard, but sweet. About twenty-six ounces a day was allowed them; and when employed in the arfcnal and other public works, they have an extraordinary allowance of near a penny a day. After escapes, if they are retaken, their whole term is doubled. Each galley has a , and public

worship on Sundays and Holidays.

In the Seraglio, or great alms-house,* there were about five hundred and fifty prisoners (condannati) in eight or nine rooms.

Many of them work as labourers on this great building, with chains varying according to the terms of their confinement; and have the extra allowance just mentioned, with five ounces of flour for soup. In these rooms were shoemakers at work, as in some of the galleys j but most of the prisoners had no employment, f

This great building is to be a receptacle for the aged and infirm j and for beggars and idle persons. There is a great number of the former in some rooms that are finished, and which have windows into a court, where they were digging a foundation for a large church, by which the numerous inhabitants will be deprived of the salutary effects of the circulation of air.

The front of this building already extends near thirteen hundred feet, and probably it will be enlarged.

f As no regular plan had been settled for the employment of these slaves, the king lately made a prefenc of three hundred of such of them as had been condemned for life, to the Maltese,

^ wr y y, VXi

ico FOREIGN PRISONS.

! J KAri.es. The galley-slaves have an hospital on the*fronting the

bay, entirely appropriated to them and their guards. It has four or five spacious and airy wards, cleaner than most of the j other hospitals in this city. One of these rooms is only for

1,!': the guard of the marine. The patients are distinguished into

| three clafies; very ill — sick — and recovering. Great attention

4: is paid to them: and they are allowed good bread in sufficient

jj j quantity.

; J; ^osri- The great and crowded hospitals of S. Apzjkli and

i t‘ tah. cz.';zr.eyhave wards appropriated to the cure of wounded persons.f

; ( The hospital of the or S. , is clean

|; 2nd elegant. It con fills chiefly of one lofty ward; at one end of which is an altar and a room for poor priests; and at the other end, a table, on which are placed the patients victuals.

, 1 1 Near this table was inscribed a reference to the apposite words of Scripture, Alaitbrtu xxv. 35, 36. For I was an hundred, and

Jt t me meat: ife.

In many of the Italian hospitals, and in all that I have seen belonging to this order of friars, there are no rooms over the sick wards, so that they are as as our churches or chapels.

I , Lccca. At Lucca, they formerly fold their to the Genoese

| or Venetians, but now they keep them in prison without any

' employment.

On my telling the furjeon, that in feme countries a of each galley is trade an hospital j he replied, “ that null Coon make the whole an hospital."

f The frequency of aTauIts and afi'aTmations in Italy is generally known. Many of the common people lVcm to be insensible of the atrocioufnals of the crime of rr.urcer. I have heard criminals in prison express, with Teeming satisfaction of mind, that though they rtabbed, they did not rob.” If we consider that wards ar.d even hospitals appropriated to the wounded arc filled with patients, that the prisorts are crowded, and that many are continually taking refuge cn the lleps of churches, and examine our accounts in JarJfetit LiJIs and the j.ff we may reckon that there are more murders committed in a year

in the city of Naples or Rome, than in Great Britain and Ireland. Does not this prove that the Vngliih are not naturally cruel ? And might not arguments be de-tived from hence, for the revisal and repeal of some of our faoguinary laws? The Jt'aiquis Frees* *u »u;l!v remarks, in his Ejfxy on Crintt and Pur.ifimenti, chap. aS. That the pur. h.rent of death is pernicious to society, from the example of

ITALY.

101

At Genoa, besides a prison for , and a prison for Genoa.

female criminals^ there is a great prison for male,

consisting of thirty-five rooms. I favv none of the prisoners in irons. Their daily allowance was thirteen ounces of good wheaten bread for each, besides soup. To this prison belongs an hospital and a chapel, with a large room to which the condemned are brought four days before their execution. — The tnjlruttions formed for this prison by the supreme , are

hung up in it, and contain good regulations, as will appear from the following account of a few of them.

*‘The keeper shall have under him fix assistants: — and the said keeper is to be responsible, and liable to punishment, if any of the assistants shall be guilty of the lead fraud or neglect in their employment. — The advocate fifeal is once a week, at any time he shall think proper, but when he is least , to

visit the Cells of the prison, and to inquire diligently how the prisoners are treated by the keeper and assistants, in order to give information to the most serene &c. — When any

prisoner is condemned to death, he is immediately to be put into chains. — The keeper is always to keep the chapel (hut, except at the time of celebrating mass, confession, or Jlering consolation to the unhappy. — He is also to take care that the prisoners do not play at any g particularly.The last order is, that this table of regulations be fixed up in the criminal court of justice, in the chancery, and in the apartments of the criminals.”

In one of the galleys just returned from conveying some Galley*. noblemen to their country feats, I found about three hundred stout fellows, clean and healthy: for the old and infirm had been left in the galleys at home, of which there were only two, the other two being out on a cruize.

The hospital for the galleys is on shore\ and in it are hung up the regulations, which consist chiefly of such orders as the

'following:

“ That five superintendents shall be appointed by the magistrates, who every month shall draw lots, to determine which of the galleys they are to inspect. — That exact lifts of the crews, and of the Tick in the infirmary, with an account of

102

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Genoa

Galley*.

i t

Hospitals.

a

the time of Their ad mini on, shall be taken and kept, with the assistance of the p'nyficlzn, chipiain, and surgeon. — That the secretary shall keep a reg.tier ol all thin: »s necessary to be provided;bread, wine, meat,

pease.

bear.s, rice, &c. &c. —

That four caldrons of broth shall be allowed weekly to a galley, besides kettles of broth Ihtediy given them in the three winter months. — That when the super: ntendents discontinue the allowance of meat, cheese, c: I, 2nd (lockfish, the chaplain shall fee that each of the Haves be served daily with half a pint of wine. — That the physiciar.s shall keep exact accounts of their orders of meat, wine, pastry, Sec. — That the captains and midshipmen shall take care that all the regulations be exactly ob served.”

The Turkish Haves had iranv little (hops on shore, for tiling coffee, perfumes, &c. and for (having; like those I remember to have ten about ten years (ince at Marseilles* The bread allowance to the (laves is three pounds and a half, for two days in summer; and three pounds in winter.

In the great hospital there were about three hundred men, and six hundred women. All sick persons of any nation are admitted into it; and it is one of the belt and lead offensive of the public hospitals of Italy. Here was a room and ward for foundlings, crowded and close; and the poor infants were cruelly bound, hands and feet, with bandages, as in the hospital at Florence, and other cities in Italy.

There were also in this hospital apartments for the Eut these apartments were close and dirty; and the calm and quiet, I found inhumanly confined in the same room with the noisy and turbulent.

The Albergohospital, situated on an eminence within fight of the harbour, is an asylum for boys and girls. There were in it a hundred and seventeen of the former, and four hundred and eighty-two of the latter. It is something similar to the noble and well-regulated hospital of San. Michele at Rome. Over the door of the great room, where numbers were spinning and weaving, is this inscription:

Silentium et

In

ITALY.

In MilaU, besides the great prison, in which are twenty Mr. ak. secretechambers ,* — the prison for debtors, t — there are*prisons called V ArgaJiroy and La Casa Correzioney which do honour to the country. Both are for criminals, condemned either for a term of years, or for life. The most,

work in chains in the street; the others, only in the house.

In UArgajirothere were three hundred and fifty-nine pri- House loners, healthy and strong. A considerable number of them correc-were at work in public: % but in the house there were at work T1°H* shoe-makers, tailors, smiths, wheelwrights, cabinet-makers, turners, nailers, rope-makers, leather-dressers, painters on gauze, spinners and weavers. Many, here learn trades; so that there is a probability, that when their term is finished, they will become useful memberr of society; which should be the grand object in all such houses. They receive for themselves one third of what they earn, and two thirds go to the house.

Their dormitory is a spacious room, with three stages in it on which they lie. In the centre of the ceiling are four large apertures, and sixteen small ones.§

There are two courts, a pump, and running water for washing || the linen of the prisoners, which they drift once a

The general size of these rooms Is eleven feet by twelve to fifteen. In some were only one or two persons, but in others fix or eight s the windows are towards a high wall eleven feet distant. These are some of the strongest and most retired rooms in the Italian prisons, in which the most atrocious offenders, and those who are imprisoned for life, are confined. They are inaccessible but by a special order. The entrance is guarded by two doors, between which is a narrow space, just sufficient to admit two persons. Into this you are locked before the turnkey opens the inner door, for fear these desperate criminals should murder the keeper for the keys, and attempt to rush out.

-J- In this great trading city, there were only four persons confined for debt.

% They water the streets and public walks (at the expense of the city) there being nineteen small waggons for that purposej fix men draw, and one attends behind chained. Others repair the pavements. Sec.

§ A prisoner, whose employment was drawing designs and patterns, gave me a plan of the rooms and courts in this prison.

|{ I obferred to one of the prisoners, that they were cleaner than most working men: be replied, or else the confinement would be intolerable.”

H 4 week.

iiizec

104

Milan

Houses or Cord ec-

TION.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

week. The daily allowance to each is thirty-five ounces of

good bread,* and a mess of good vegetable soup. They have two hours for dinner and repose. All had a chain to each leg. If any escape and are retaken, the whole term is renewed, and half as much more.

In this lioufc there is an hospital, a chapel, and an apartment for the chaplain.

The Casa di Correzione is now building, on a noble and

spacious plan.f The dormitory and the work-rooms for the men are finished and occupied.^; In one of these work-rooms there were forty looms employed weaving linen, cotton, and diaper: in which also, and in two others opening into it, were warping and twijling-mills, and winding-wheels. Under

these was a calendar: and some were employed in beating (not carding) cotton. In a detached temporary building I saw a prisoner employed in weaving gauze; who (as I. conjectured from the great resort to him) was reckoned curious in this art. With the assistance of some whom he employed, he kept four looms at work. Other prisoners were bleaching the cloth manufactured in the house. And some were at work as masons and labourers, in this great building.

Over the work-rooms is the great ball or the room

for boys, and the infirmary. The dormitory is lightsome, airy and clean, and appears evidently to be an improvement on that of San. Michele at Rome.§ It conlifts of a great room (one hundred and twenty-four feet by thirty-one) || near the end of

which

One loaf was equal to the daily allowance of two prisoners;it was divided into two equal parts with an engine, and received portion every day.

j- The Count de Firmian, governor of Lombardy, whose amiable character is well known to our English travellers, not only honoured me with theplan, but favoured me with every advantage for examining the ptifons.

% The two work-rooms for the women (just finished) are large and lofty j and in each there are five large windows, placed high above the floor. At one comer of these rooms are stone basons, with water laid ip to them.

1 therefore insert the plan of this also.

H On each side of the hall are three stone galleries, two feet eight inches wide, with iron rails. The chambers arc numbered, amounting to one hun-died and twenty; these arc all similar, nine feet two inches bf eight feet two j

they

ITALY. 105

which there is an*altar with a cupola over it: on one side of Milan the altar is the dormitory for boys, and on the other the Ho0®s* infirmary; and all together make the figure of a cross, which Comec-is the form of many hospitals in Italy and other Roman T101*' catholick countries.

There were near three hundred prisoners in this house; twenty of whom were chained to two benches in the dormitory, but at the same time employed in spinning, making and mending clothes. There are two or three rooms, adjoining those in which they work, occupied as warehouses. All the prisoners work in irons.

In visiting the great hospital, my expeditions, which had Hosm-been too much raised by the accounts of travellers, were dif- TAt*' appointed. Most of the wards are on the ground floor, and not lofty, as there are rooms over them. They are also dirty and offensive, though provided with spacious drains. They have a middle row of beds, and in many of the beds were two persons: but care was taken to separate the patients in fevers from those who were attended by surgeons.

The hospital of S. Gio di Dio exhibits that cleanliness and attention, which this fraternity always discovers.

In the hospital for orphans, called , the work and

bed-rooms were spacious, neat and agreeable. There were three hundred girls in it; whose employment was making lace on round pillows, f

In the prison at the Citadel of Turin there were one hun- To* in dred and seventy in irons; some had the half-chain, others Citadsl. were chained two and two together. These prisoners continue always unemployed, till they are sent to the galleys at Villa-Franca. Their unhealthy countenances plainly shewed the

they have one window outward, three feet by twoj and one towards the great room, two feet five inches by one foot five: they are furnished with a bed and bedding, a rtool, and a vault. In the infirmary, and the dormitory for boys, as well as in the great hall, there were done finks and water laid in.

Mod of the chirurgical patients had been wounded in sudden quarrels or afiaults.

} I wished them a more healthy employment, and that they had used thefyuart pillows of Flanders; for condantly (looping mud be prejudicial. Such as are tiius employed are generally of a pale and sickly complexion,

little

io6

Tun IK,

Hospital*.

Chaw-

SIUY.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

little attention paid to them. — In this prison there was*chamber for convalescents, who not being fit for labour, are continued here forty days before they are sent to the galleys.

In the great hospital of S. Giovanni there were a multitude of old men and women, whose apartments had a very improper communication with the wards of the sick and dying.

In the hospital of La Carita, there were about two thousand inhabitants, mostly boys and girls.

Here also is an hospital for lunat, where, with pain, I saw wards crowded with beds, and in some of them miserable creatures chained and raving.

At Chamberry I found that the salutary pra&iceof washing the prison was adopted. Besides the stated allowance of good bread, the prisoners are often supplied with bread and soup, and in winter with clothes and coverlets, by a charitable society of ladies. In one of the rooms I saw chains;but was told they had not been used since the walls had been built higher. A difrnal torture-chamber, into which day-light never enters, makes a part of this prison.

Before the Cantons, I will mention, what is not indeed any part of Switzerland, the little Republic of

GENEVA.

In the prison, which was formerly the bishop's palace, at my first visit, there were only five criminals \ none of them in irons. Their allowance about six pence a day: for which they have a pound of good bread, some soup, and half a pint of wine. They looked healthy. Here, as in the Swiss Cantons, men and women are kept separate. For some years pa ft, no capital punishment. If a criminal flies from justice, they call him in form three days; and after trial, execute him in effigy.

There seldom are any debtors. A creditor must allow his debtor in prison as much as felons have from the public: upon failure, the gaoler gives notice, and then discharges the prisoner.

Sect. IV. SWITZERLAND. 107

Besides, there are sumptuary laws in this state. And Cinita. though the government is in general mild, there is a severe law against bankrupts, and insolvents; which renders incapable of all honours, and deprives of freedom, not only the debtor himself, but his children after him: except such of them as pay their quota of the debts.

At my last visit, there were two debtors, and five other prisoners > to whom great attention was paid, as they were then laying new floors in the lower rooms, left they ftiQuld be damp and injurious to their health.f In the house of correction there were no prisoners.

SWITZERLAND.

Ik entering Switzerland from Geneva, a traveller will be surprised to meet frequently with a gibbet on the road, if he be not informed that almost every or bailiwick has a

prison, and possesses the power of trying criminals, and capitally convicting the m. I visited one of these prisons. It belonged to Mr. Baron de Prangins, and consisted of foiy rooms at the top of his castle. £ It was empty.

In those of the Cantons to which I went, felons have each a room to themselves, <c that they may not,” said the keepers, “ tutor one another.” None were in irons: they are kept in rooms more or less strong and lightsome, according to the crimes they are charged with. But the prisons are in general very strong. The rooms are numbered, and the keys marked

See Edits de la Repulliqu* de,1735.

f 1 hoped to have found here no torture-chambers, but I had only the pleasure to hear that none had fuftered in them these twenty-five years. They are thus rest rained by the thirty-second article in the Regiment de Mediation four la

Pacification dts troubles de la Republique de published in ] 7 38. “ aecuf/t

tt criminels ne pourront itre applique's a la ou,que prtalabltment ile

“ nayent etipar jugement definitifs condamr.es a

% 1 observed the same thing at the cfeftle in the isle of Gorgona In Italy, where there are two rooms at the top of the building for prisons. This is different from the ancient cruel mode of confining prisoners in pits and dungeons of castles.

with

it€ nm.?. r;

75 ,

4

*zi foreign prisons.

^!to the contrary Tame numbers. In most of them a German The common allowance, six pence a day. In some Cantons there were no prisoners of this fort. The principal reason of it is, the great care that is taken to give children, even the pooreff, a moral and religious education. Another thing which contributes to the same intention, is the laudable police of speedy justice. A criminal has notice of his death, not the manner of it, but a short time before he is to suffer: and he is then indulged with his choice of food, wine, &c. Women are not hanged, but beheaded. Every new executioner has a new sword; and in the arsenal at Bern I saw several old ones hung up in order. In the houses of correction, many of the prisoners were women j whom I saw at work.

The most numerous prisoners are th improperly

so called, for there are no galleys belonging to Switzerland.

Lav- At Lausanne I visited the prison, in which there were at

anwi. tjjat tJ-me no prisoners. There were dungeons;but on entering each of them, the keeper observed, that we were not yet upon the ground, but there were cellars underneath. On conversing with Dr. Tiflot, he expressed his surprise at our gaol distemper j said, “ I should not find it in Switzerland: ” and added, that “ he had not heard of its being any where but in England.” When I mentioned the late act of parliament for preserving the health of our prisoners, he approved of it highly, especially the clause which required and

keeping them clean. — I did not (as the doctor said) find the gaol fever in Switzerland: nor did I find it any where else abroad.*

Sir John Pringle, President of the Royal Society, in his Difccurfe at the Anni-verfary Meeting, 30th November 1776, informs us at page 16, that “Thelate ‘ Dr. Mounfcy, F. R.S. who had lived long in Russia, and had been Archiver “ under two successive sovereigns — -happening to be atMofcowwhen be perused ‘the I'jthnt on the Jail fever — was induced to compare what he read in that Treat ife with what he should fee in the several prisons of that large city: * hut to hit surprize, after visiting them all, and finding them full of malefactors (for the late Kmpress then suffered none — to be put to death) he could difeo- ver no fever among them, nor learn that any acute distemper peculiar to jails ‘ had ever been known there. — Upon his return to St. Petersburg, be made the

: lime inquiry there, and with the same result.”

Sect. IV. SWITZERLAND. 109

At Freyburg, there were no prisoners in the two towers; one of which is called La Tour , probably from the

close rooms of confinement (eight feet by fix, and six feet high) and the excruciating engines of torture kept there. In the house of correction there were thirteen men, and seven women; the former are employed abroad in cleaning the streets, &c. the latter in spinning. They have soup twice a day; meat only three times a year; viz. Christmas, Easter, and Whit-funtide.

At Bern, the principal Canton, there were no prisoners but in the two houses of correction. One of these prisons is for citizens, in which the men and women were spinning, for they never work abroad.

In the other (the Schallenbaus) were, in 1776, one hundred and twenty-four galley-slaves; and in 1778, one hundred and forty-one. They have not each a room to themselves ;*but there is some distinction of the more and less criminal, both in their rooms and work. The women's wards are totally separate from those of the men. Most of the men are employed in cleaning and watering the streets, and public walks; removing the rubbish of buildings} and the snow and ice in winter. The city is one of the cleaned I have seen. Four or five are chained toafmall waggon, and draw; others, more at liberty, sweep, load, See. f These are known by an , with a hook

projecting above their heads: weight about five pounds: I saw one riveted on a criminal in about two minutes. They work in summer from seven to eleven, and from one to fix;in winter from eight to eleven, and from one to four. I

F*it-

8ur.G.

Bern.

An old keeper having left the door of one of the men's wards unlocked, twelve prisoners forced the outer door and walked off; the people who happened to fee them, suffering them to pass, because they supposed they were going to work in the streets. When four or five of them some time after were retaken and carried to their old lodgings, the magistrates ordered that they should not bt fvr.ifliedy considering that every one must he desirous of regaining liberty. As they had not been guilty of assault or violence in making their escape, the punishment fell on the keeper for his negligence.

of As the employment of the men convicts in the streets is somewhat similar to their employment at Milan, I give a representation of it from a draught taken by a painter in this city;I have also given a view of the employment of the women;though I detest the custom of daily exposing that sex to such ignominy and fe-verity, unlcfsp when they are totally abandoned, and have loft all the foster feelings of their sex,

no

Bit*,

FOREIGN PRISONS.

asked the men, “ Whether they would choose to work so, or be confined within doors ? ” “ Much ,” they said, “ work

thus” The less criminal are in separate wards. They work within doors, spinning, &c. in a large room j*and have not the iron collar. The prison is not commodious, nor kept very clean. The daily allowance, two pounds of bread j and twice a day a pint and half of soup, made of barley, beans, &c. which they fetch from the great hospital. In their leisure hours they make and mend shoes, makcftraw hats, &c. and deliver them as they pass on at work. But I found a few, miserable for want of employment.f They are not suffered to practise gaming of any fort. Indeed this is forbidden to all the common people $ as playing for any considerable sum is to those of higher rank. The keeper and turnkey are to fee that the prisoners perform their devotions every morning and evening. The chaplains pray with them and instruct them on Sunday and Thursday. Once a month other clergymen superintend the service. No visitant admitted on Sunday. Thus a principal object here is to make them better men. This, indeed, should always be the leading view in every house of correction j and the earnings of the prisoners should only be a secondary object. As rational and immortal beings, we owe this to them j nor can any criminality of theirs, justify our neglect in this particular.

Great care taken of the lick. No futling place to be kept in this house of correction. The keeper is strictly forbidden to fell the prisoners wine, brandy, or other provisions; and required entirely to forego any such emolument. The bedding and clothing are minutely described, both as to quality and value. I have a copy of all the orders, twenty-seven in number, dated March 14. 1741. These which I have mentioned may serve for a specimen.

I saw them bring in their week's work, and (after it was examined) receive twenty-seven pounds of flax for the following week. At that time some of the town's people purchased the flax that had been spun, and paid for it to an for who lives near the prison.

As some employment is absolutely necessary; when the crimes are of such a nature as to allow or require indulgence, it should be given them by flattening their term of confinement, or in some other way, instead of allowing them to be idle, I have fecn this futfcindulgence to prisoners in several places.

may

Sect. IV. SWITZERLAND.

in

In La Prison Ordinaire, some rooms are planked all round.

Eight of them are very close and strong. Doors of oak two inches and a half thick, plated with iron; three hinges, a lock and two padlocks. In a closet, were the clothes of a person that was murdered, kept to confront the guilty when apprehended: and some stolen goods, to be owned. A criminal, who can pay is allowed to expend 7 batz 2 , about

a shilling daily, for two meals of soup and good bread. To one that is poor, the government allows half that sum. To all who are condemned, they allow a shilling a day for eight days before they suffer. These allowances are specified on a paper hung up in the gaol. There also hangs up a serious exhortation concerning the awful nature of an oath; and the forms of sundry oaths to be taken. I procured copies of the whole, but will transcribe only one oath, as follows: -rMa “ftien,.dont lecture rria ete faite a,je la confirme devant

44 la face du Dieu tout puijfant, tout-sachant et vray9 pour - tenir la write, ainjt que je desire que Dieu me en aide fur la fin de mes jours. Sans dol ni .” — 44 My deposition,

44 which has now been read to me, I confirm before the face of God omnipotent, omniscient and true, to contain the truth, 44 as I desire that God may be my'help at the end of my days. 44 Without deceit or fraud.” Perjury, I was told, is very uncommon among them.

In this city I had some discourse with the celebrated Dr. Haller. He aferibed the sickness in English gaols to their being over-crowded.*

At Solothurn, the prison (dated 1756) is built of a fort of marble from a quarry near the town. Many of the Hones are six feet by two or three, and above a foot thick. The gaoler

Will it need an apology, if the mode of publishing the assize of bread in this city be just mentioned ? It is better than that at Vienna, and several other cities. In the middle of the window of every baker's Ihop is hung up in full view, the bill on pasteboard, specifying the weight and price of three different sorts of bread, and, at the bottom, that of the fine rolls. The bills are signed by the magistrates secretary. If the price continues the same the following month, the secretary notes it on all the bills. I copied one of these bills, and purchased the different sorts of bread, which I found to be full or rather over weight. The prices were, white bread, i 11.five creutzers', heufchild, lib, four and a quarter; brown

bread, i lb.three creuixeri and a quarter.

Butt,

Soto-

THUIM,

said.

112

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Soto- laid, “ He always took off the irons from criminals that came HtRW* “ to him chained hands and feet.” There are fifteen rooms about nine feet square, and eight feet high: with a coach roof. The partition walls are all of the same fort of marble: the window is in the upper part of the wall, two feet by six inches: German stoves in most of the rooms. For those guilty of less heinous crimes, there are rooms not quite so strong, and more lightsome. Allowance, a pound of bread, and twice a day soup.

The mag ill rates thought a cmjlant sup ply within the

prison-walls so needful, that although there is a fountain in the street about ten yards from the prison-door, they have lately placed another in the court.

Basil. At Basil, the gaol for felons is in one of the towers. No prisoners; but many rooms ready with clean straw and blankets. Each prisoner (they said) has a room to himself, in which he is constantly shut up, except when conduced to the council-chamber for examination. One of the strongest cells is in a room by the great clock, and is about six feet high: the trap-door is in the flat roof: the prisoner goes down by a ladder, which is then taken up: his victuals are put in at a wicket on one side. When I was in the room, and took notice of the uncommon strength of it, the gaoler told me a prisoner had lately made his escape from it. I could net devise what method he took, but heard it was this. He had a spoon for soup, which he (harpened to cut out a piece from the timber of his room: then by practice he acquired the knack of striking his door, just when the great clock struck (to drown the noise): and in fifteen days he forced all the bolts. See. But attempting to let himself down from the vast height by a rope which he found, the rope failed him; and by falling he broke so many of his bones, that the surgeons pronounced his recovery impossible. But his bones were set; and with proper care he did recover, and was pardoned.

Zurich. At Zurich there is & pfituated in the middle of the river, for capital crimes;* and a (formerly

Here was only one prisoner. The first room was for examination} in it were five different weights for torture, and if we may depend on tradition, the heaviest, which is one hundred and twenty pounds, was used in torturing*burgomalUr of this city.

Sect. IV. SWITZERLAND.

a convent.) In the latter, which is convenient and spacious, there were about sixty prisoners. Nineteen of the men worked abroad for the citizens, who paid them for their work, but not so much as to other labourers. The rest were spinning within doors, or working at some trade.* I observed one woman colouring botanical prints. They have a chapel, in which they attend divine service, and are catechised every Friday. Once a day, such of them as do not work abroad, walk under arcades in a large square court; during which time, by the advice of one of the physicians in this city, their rooms are thoroughly aired, the doors and windows being thrown open. They have good bedding; and they are well supplied with bread and soup every day, but no meat.

The prisoners, on entrance, have the house clothes; and their own are hung up, with their names, and the time of their commitment, noted upon them.

There were no prisoners at Schaffhausek, except three in the house of correction.

From further consideration of the excellent manner in which houses of correction are conduced in this country, as well as in Holland, by regents or inspectors, whose motive for attending to their duty cannot be large salaries; I am still more confirmed in the opinion I before advanced, that no mercenary views should be held forth to the persons to whom such an important trust is committed. Nor can I doubt, that in our own country, as well as abroad, men might readily be found, who merely from a sense of duty, and love to humanity and their country, would faithfully and diligently execute such an office, with no other reward than the approbation of their fellow-citizens, and of their own consciences. In fa&, we find, that there is no want of respectable persons among us, to undertake the government of hospitals and houses of industry upon these principles.

From Switzerland I returned into Germany, to visit some prisons which I had not seen, particularly those in the free or imperial Cities.

On inquiring of one of the magistrates, if they banished any of their criminals ? he seemed surprised at the question, and allied, if 1 did not fee in the mountains many manufactories

f See Mr. Coxc's Letters from Switzerland, p, 463,

113

Zurich

House of Correction

SCHAFFHAUSEN.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

GERMANY.

At Arcrrtntc, tie prison is oa the £ie of ahil, at the back, of the tcwis-hcafc. It coa: I: b of many cczbsts or fnuH rooms, cm three 0: ~erent foers. There is one for examination, an I raro foe the engines of torture.* The condemned are brought three cays before their execution into two light rooms, which open into a Roman catholick chapel: where, however, if a phibner be a Proteriant, a Lutheran minister is permitted to attend him.

The House of Correction consists of buildings on two sides of a spacious court; one side for those of the Roman catholic religion, and the other for Protestants, with a chapel for each. The rooms were all clean, and are white-washed every year. Opposite to the front windows in most of the rooms, were high windows, of a semi-circular form, which were designed for promoting a circulation of air.

Munich. At Munich or Munchen, there are two prisons for criminals. That in the town-house, had in it fix men and two women prisoners.f In a dark damp dungeon down seventeeo steps, were the inUruments of torture.

The other, called La de la Cour, consisted of about

fifteen cells, twelve feet by n, and a black torture-room, t

In

There are also two dark dungeons for such as have been convicted of witchcraft: but they are in a very ruinous condition, and seem to have been a long time without inhabitants.

f Once a year, viz. on All-faints day, any persons are permitted to enter and fee the prison. There is a custora similar to this in Holland, at the fair and other fixed times.

In this room there is a table covered with black cloth and fringe. Six dial* for the magistratet and foe retd ries, oovered also with black cloth, arc elevated two steps above the floor, and painted -blaofc. Various engines of torture, some of which are fiained with blood, hang round the room.,* When the criminals suffer, the candles are lighted; for the windows are shut close, to prevent their cries being heard abroad. Two crucifixes are presented to the view of the unhappy objefb. But it is too /hocking to relate their different modes of cruelty. Even women are not spared. — This room seems much like the torture-room io Spain, described in Limborch's liiftsry eftke Iwjvi/itm, translated by Chandler,

vol

Sect. IV. GERMANY.

In the house of corrtBion were about forty men and thirty women j some weaving wide doth, but most of them /pinning. The keeper ordered his servant to attend me with charcoal and frankincense; a certain sign of negligence and inattention, which the countenances of the prisoners confirmed.

I was agreeably relieved from the pain excited by these scenes, with the view of the two hospitals of Les Freres and Lts Shearsie Charlie. In the fprmer were about forty beds;

in the latter, twenty: the wards were about twenty-six feet wide. All w^s neat and dean, still and quiet $ and the great attention paid to the patients was every where apparent. I saw the operation of bleeding performed by the Nuns with great -dexterity and tenderness. Over the foot of each bed a text of Scripture was inscribed, as in some Italian hospitals.

The prison at Ratisbon or Regensburg, is in the town-house. Many of the chambers are airy, and most of them have Roves. There are no dungeons, but three dark cellars for torture, at which two senators, their secretary, and the hangman with his valets alEft. At Munich and most other places, a surgeon also attends,; but I heard of no such custom here.

At the back of the orphan-house is the house of correction> in which were only two women.

At Nurenburg, the prison is under the town-house. There are fifteen steps down to the gaoler's kitchen. The apertures for admitting light into the passages of the dungeons, are levd with the ground. This is one of the worst prisons I ever saw. The dark unhealthy dungeons, and the dismal torture-chamber,* do no honour to the magistracy of this city. — The gaoler makes use of a low trick to prevent the escape of his prisoners, by terrifying them with the apprehensions of falling under the power of witches. In several of the German gaols there are

vol. II. p. 22i) 4.to. edit.«It was a large under-ground room, arched, and the walls covered with black hangings. The candlesticks were fattened to tha wall, and the whole room enlightened with candles placed in them. — The inquisitor and notary fat at a table, so that the place teemed as the very mansion 4‘ of death, every thing appearing, io terrible and awful.1'

In this chamber on the wall is inscribed a gingling verse, which I here infer: , a? perhaps no traveller but myself has ever seen it t

M mala patrata, sunt atra theatre parata, 1753.

12 dungeons

IX5

Monica.

Hospitals.

Ratis-

*0*.

Nuren-

suie.

n6

FOREIGN PRISONS.

1(16,

Sccwa-

ACM

House of Correction.

(rx &.r/ji thzt arr acr=: tr: of w^tcHcxzn, bat they teem to have bteri lorg cifjftd: 2.ri I hope irtemirng light and g'xxl ftr.fr »“'! soon er.tirtly hsr.'.fh the fem of witches, and cor.fecuently tht t titer*;tk-nr.fd-jn.

In cne of the citj-tnvers in which lunatics are confined, there are three or four rooms for criminals of higher rank.

The prisoners in the house of c*were employed in grinding spectacle-glasses. The surplus of what they earn above forty errutzm, or eighteen pence a week each, they are allowed for themselves.f Some of the women were working gold and silver lace on cushions.

At Schwabach, in the margraviate of Anfpach, is a large house of complicity in which were ninety-three prisoners. Some

men here al so were grinding glasses in two large rooms; and others, in different apartments, were employed in polishing steel buttons for clothes, wire-drawing, and making spinning-wheels: and I was informed that twelve were at work on the road. The women were spinning.

This house was clean, and well regulated. The gaoler readily supplied me with a book, containing an account of the regulations, &c.; in which are some liberal and sensible remarks that appear worth transcribing.

It is observed, that<c there is great error in expecting that a house of this kind should be able to maintain itself; since with the strictest economy, a consideralle annual sum will be found necessary for its proper support.”

The greatest attention to cleanliness is inculcated;bathing

Over the gate of the house is this inscription

Hie crimtnum frequentia Mortalium dementia Compefcitur dementia Salva fori sententia.

t «The men grind seven glasses in each hand. Some grind four hundred in a week, by which they earn fifty-two ertutmert at thirteen for a hundred, and consequently each earns for himself twelve craitx a week.

That this is a very unhealthy business, is evident from the countenances of thofa whom I saw thus employed, and from the disagreeable sensations 1 always received from the dust in the rooms where they were grinding. The medical gen. t;~mcn Prescribe bleeding and phjfic to these persons, two or three times a year.

room*

X

L

Sect.IV. GERMANY. 117

rooms are provided for the prisoners; and the expense of Schwa.

for them is reckoned an object not to be regarded. *ACH

The necessity for ftek wards for both sexes is pointed out. H°^s* It is remarked to be “ a very false notion, that a man who Conntc-lives upon bread and water can work hard and be kept in healthaccordingly, as will be seen in the table subjoined, a daily allowance of hot provisions is ordered for the criminals.

It is mentioned as an eflentiali point, in order to preserve order, and prevent abuses, “ that one of the city magistrates should every week in rotation visit the house, and closely inspect every thing relative to its management.”

Such prisoners as have been publicly whipped are called infantes, and are distinguished from the rest, by having a particular place appropriated to them in the chapel, and by being made the last in receiving the sacrament. The chaplain re-fides in the house. The account of the daily allowance to the prisoners was hung up in the dining-room.

Regulations of the daily hot provisions for those prisoners in the house of correction who are set to labour.

Sundays. In the summer months, half a pound of beef with half a pint of greens. And in the evening, a pint of soup with eight ounces of bread.

In the winter months, half a pound of meat with a pint of four krout. And in the evening, a pint of soup with eight ounces of bread.

Mondays. In summer, dumplings of wheaten dour.

And in winter, pease.

Tuesdays. In summer, pease and peeled barley.

In winter, turnips. Wednesdays. In summer And winter, boiled millet.

Thursdays. In summer, butter soup.

In winter, sweet cabbage.

Fridays. In summer,dumplings of wheaten dour.

In winter, potatoes j and in the evening, soup with dour.

Saturdays. In summer, pease.

And in winter, pease and peeled barley.

Further. Unto each of the said prisoners in the evenings, butter j and daily, two pounds of bread and half a measure of beer.

For those who are put to flight labour the diet is similar, except that each has only a pound and a half of bread daily, and no butter or beer; and on and Fridays, they have frument, gruel, indead of dumplings.

To vagrants, and those who earn their bread by flight labour.

Sundays. Dumplings and soup for supper.

Wednesdays.Millet boiled in milk.

On the other days, no hot victuals.

To each daily, one pound and three quarters of bread, S

Bat-

£0TB Hooi* or COKBKC' T IOIf

Wo«T*- VIC.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

In a large j/* correction near Bayreuth, in Fra neon h», the

men were all working on marble,* which is fownd in the neighbouring mountains.f Many were employed at the potHhing bench, two on each flab. Others were variously engaged, in finishing, filing, or carving; or in cutting proofs Of samples at the wheels; or in worldng on tobacco-boxes, friuff-boxes, See. A large warehouse contained the goods they had finished.

In summer, many of them are employed in Tawing without doors;but in winter, they work in rooms: Tof were they to attempt this work abroad; a sudden frost might endanger the materials, but would certainly render it impossible to nfe the Taw. The pale countenances of the prisoners were a sign that their work was laborious, and that the keeper had the whote profit.

The women were (pinning worsted, and appeared objects of tompalfion. Their dirty rooms, sickly looks, and cutaneous complaints, evidently bespoke inattention and neglect.

In the house of correction at IV were fifty-four men and thirty-six women, employed in a well-regulated woollen manufactory^ In one part of the house they were spinning; in another, picking and carding wool; and in , weaving

wide cloth for the soldiers,§ and also (locking and waistcoat-pieces. — The women were all spinning or carding in one large room. As their spinning was of various kinds, there was a room v/ith cupboards, where each person's work was laid up separately. The talk for each man or woman was eight creutzers,

My ingenious friend and colleague, Dr. Fothergill, has proposed a scheme of this kind for the employment of our convicts, and pointed out many of the act vantages which might attend the execution. It was printed in the,

September 30, 1776.

+ Some specimens of several forts of the marble I brought home.

t I have a book of the regulations: but of what advantage arc the bed role* when not enforced

The wheels were larger than our spinning-wheels, the diameter being foot feet. Here, and at most houses of this fort, are large looms, six feet seven inchct wide, and two persons work at each loom. In a warehouse, the manufacturer (lor all such houses have a manufacturer) shewed me several pieces of cloth for the under officers, the artillery, the soldiers, and the hospital or poor-house.

J

Sect. IV. GERMANY. 119

zers, or three pence halfpenny, a day. Here is a Roman catholick chapel, and the priest lives in house.

At Hanau, the galley-slaves (so called) are distinguished Hanav. into honuetes and dejbannitei. The former are condemned for three, four, (even, nine, fourteen years: but the term is sometimes shortened on account of good behaviour. These wear a brown uniform; and a small chain from the girdle to one leg. The latter are for the most part such as have committed capital offences. These wear a white coat with one black sleeve; and have a chain from the girdle to each leg: they never work out of the town j and are put to the most disagreeable services in it. The hours of work for both forts are, in summer, from five to eleven, and from one to fix: in winter, as the weather and length of days permit. Allowance, from ill of April to Michaelmas, two pounds and a half of bread a day: from Michaelmas to April, two pounds: and each man about two pence English a day. From a charity they have half a florin (about twelve pence halfpenny) a month.

They are constantly vifued by a deputy from the regency, who makes his report to the colonel every morning: and the colonel conveys it to the young prince, when he resides at Hanau.

Of his kindness to them, the prisoners seemed duly sensible; and they spoke with grateful respect of the attention shewed them by the amiable Princess his deceased mother, whose memory will be long revered in that country.

I asked one and another of the ho who were at work on the road. Whether they liked to be thus employed, or would rather choose to be confined in idleness ? They readily answered, u Much rather be thus abroad at work.” On Saturday afternoon, these sweep the bridges, the entrances to the town &c. They have a guard of four soldiers (bayonets fixed) a subaltern, and the keeper. This is the guard, be the number of (laves more or less: when I saw them, they were from ten to twelve.

At six in the evening, in summer-time, they bring all their tools into a room in the prison, and go to their chambers:

Roman catholick prisoners are sometimes sent hither from other countries, for their term of confinement, as those of a different persuasion are sent to Bayreuth,

120 FOREIGN PRISONS.

Hanab.

the deshonnetes on the ground floor; the honnetes above. But in this prison there is not a separate room for each man; as in those to which they were at first committed. Each slave has, besides the clothes above-mentioned, two pair of shoes; two pair of stockings; and two shirts. All are obliged to attend divine service on Sunday. The men, on my repeated visits, looked healthy.

The deshonnetes are not doomed to despair: but for good behaviour are sometimes promoted to the rank of I

conversed with one, whom I found very cheerful for a late advancement of that kind: in consequence of it, he was working on the road.

There is another prison. La Tour de Margueretta: so called from the first person confined in it. It has four rooms on each of the two floors; but they were all empty.

Casskl. At Cassel, there is also a prison for galley-slaves under similar management, but not so well conduced. One circumstance.struck me as worthy of remark. In a new church'just built, there is a gallery "with two separate feats for the honnetes and deshonnetes; though the whole number, when I was there, was only seventeen.

Here is also a large house of correction, with a work-room one hundred and ten feet by twenty-five, and twelve feet high. It was built by Charles, grandfather to the present Landgrave. I shall not, however, enter into a minute detail of the discipline in this house, as many others arc better conducted; and the account of them is more particular.

Franc- At Francfort (on the Maine) there are five prisons. One

,0RT* is for debtors, where I found only three, who were alimented at ten ereutzers, about four pence, a day, payable by their creditors.

The prison called La Tour de Ste. Catharine was empty. Here is a light room, to which criminals are generally brought from the great guard prison, just before their execution. The men are hanged, and the women beheaded;but executions are very rare in this city.

In the house of correction (near the work-house) were three prisoners, two women and a man. The man was at work with two or three others in the court, beating to powder a porous

Sect. IV GERMANY. 121

stone, which is worked up with water, and makes, when dry, a hard cement or coat of plaster. The two women were employed in the work-house.

At Manheim, Monsieur Babo, counsellor to the regency, M*w-

very politely gave orders to {hew me every room of Maison “Bl“*

de Force. Prisoners committed to this house are commonly

received in form with what is called thd (welcome.)

A machine is brought out, in which are fattened their neck, hands, and feet. Then they are stripped; and have, according as the magistrate orders — the grand venu of twenty to thirty stripes — the demivenu of eighteen to twenty — or the

petit venu of twelve to fifteen: after this they kiss the threshold and go in Some are treated with the same compliment at discharge. The like ceremony is observed at many other towns in Germany.

The house was clean. Fifty-two men, and forty-nine women in several rooms: all at work; either at their own trades, as {hoe-makers, tailors, weavers, lapidaries; or at one of the manufactures of the house; which are coarse cloth and cards. Not one idle. They have but little time to earn any thing for themselves: yet though they work entirely for the house, their labour does not maintain it.

The rules and orders are good. I have a copy of them.

The two last are to this effect, nth.-As it is of the utmost importance in such houses as this* to observe all possible cleanliness; it is required of all persons to watch most strictly against all appearance of the contrary. Whoever fees the least offence of that kind, shall give immediate notice of it to the inspector, upon pain of close confinement on bread and water* and the most rigorous chastisement. 12th. That no one may be able to plead ignorance of the rules, one copy of them shall be given to every prisoner, and another bung up in his room; and they shall be read publickly every Sunday morning after divine service. It is ordered that the disobedient be punished; and that encouragement be given to the dutiful and diligent.

The doors are all numbered; and the keys marked with the corresponding number. Allowance to most of the men, two pounds of bread, soup, and a quart of good beer; and, except in Lent, half a pound of meat. Women have a pound and half

122 FOREIGN PRISONS.

Man-

of bread;other articles as the men- The sick are indulged

* with white bread, veal, &c. They have all of them clean linen once a week: it is washed by the women prisoners. The keeper makes, every morning, a report to Monsieur Babo of the Rate of the house as to numbers, health, &c.

A capuchin says mass in the chapel every morning. A gallery for men: another for women, with a blind before it: another for orphans* of whom there arc sixty-four in a sort of hospital at one end of the prison. Protestants and Jews are ordered to their private devotions: the latter are excused from working on their sabbath.

St* as- At Strasburg, in one of the five towers were three debtors;bukc. they informed me that they were alimented by their creditors; that they had two pounds of good bread a day, and soup equally good. I was much pleased to find so much of a liberal ipi-rit prevail in this city, that in the hospital there were separate chambers for Lutherans, in which they were allowed the attendance of their own miniRers.

Mint*. At Mentz, La Porte de,which is for felansy is five Rories high: two rooms on a floor: a spacious landing-place in the middle, with opposite windows, for circulation of air. The rooms are double-floored with oak plank, full two inches thick j and each room has a double door only three feet nine inches high. These two circumstances contribute much to security. On one side the door is a small iron wicket, to give in the daily allowance;which is two pounds of bread, soup, and (except in Lent)a little meat. Only one prisoner is confined in each room, who has two blankets; and once in a fortnight, clean straw. This gaol Rands near the Rhine, and is not in the leaR offensive.

In the house of correction all was neat, and Riewed the attention of the regency. On my taking notice to the keeper how clean his prison was, he said, “ How can it be othewife, “ when we have so many women prisoners. Surely they may “ keep the house clean ?” MoR of the flour in the city is ground at a mill in this prison. The delinquents work at it two hour's in the morning, and two in the afternoon. Over the door is carved a waggon drawn by two,two lions> and two wild boars \with an inscription explaining the device,

Sect. IV. GERMANY.

which is, that if wild beasts can be tamed to the yoke, we should not defpoir of reclaiming irregular men. I saw the same bat relief at one or two other houses of correct ion.

There is a separate prison for r, near the fish-market; La Fort du Poiffion. No prisoners. When there are any, they have daily at the creditor's cost two pounds of bread, and about four pence English.

Every prison at Mentis has in each room a German stove; which, in winter, is heated two or three times a day. s have clean linen once a week. On my observing to the brigadier of the police who went with me, how healthy his prisoners looked, he told me that Some years ago, they were “ unhealthy , and the regency removed them from the dun-u geons: upon which they recovered j and had been remarkably healthy ever since.” The dungeons are now totally disused.

It was hardly necessary to inquire if the prisons were inspected by proper officers. The keepers make a report every day to an attentive Lieutenant of the Police: and once in a fortnight the Cmfeiller de Regence, the Secretaire and Confciller det Finances

visit every prison; hear all complaints; and inquire if clothes, or anything necessary be wanting. None of the keepers fell liquor;but prisoners may send out for a quart of beer a day. They are ndt allowed to have any spirituous liquors.

In the tower at Cologn, there were no prisoners either for debt or for capital offences. In this and many other cities, the magistrates will not permit a debtor who has no effects to be confined. This city has not the power of executing criminals; but when they arc condemned, they are delivered up to an high officer of the elector's, and confined in a dungeon in his house. I law one thus confined when I was here three years ago.

In the house of corrections the men were beating stone to powder with (mail wooden mallets, as is practised at Francfort. The women were spinning, or knitting stockings.

The great prison at Aix-la-Chapelle was unoccupied.

In the guard prison near the Maison de there were two prisoners $ one of whom was a very old man with irons on one

Mints,

Cologn*

Aix-la-Cha-

TELLE.

FOREIGN PRISONS. 123

Aix-la*

hand, who was confined on suspicion, and had twice fullered t^ie torture to force a discovery of his confederates.

Executions are not frequent in this city.* Citizens are always executed by decollation, which is performed by the broad sword, as at Hamburgh, Bern, &c. and not by a machine, as in some parts of Italy; nor by the axe, as in England, Denmark, &c.

Lises. The two prisons (distinguished by the names of the old and the new) near La Porte de St. Leonard in Liege, are on the ramparts. — In two rooms of the old prison I saw fix cages made very strong wit& iron hoops, f four of which were empty. These were dismal places of confinement; but I soon found worse. In defeending deep below ground from the gaoler's apartments, I heard the moans of the miserable wretches in the dark dungeons. The sides and roof were all Rone. In wet weather, water from the fojfts gets into them, and has greatly damaged the floors. Each of them had two small apertures, one for admitting air, and the other, with a shutter over it strongly bolted, for putting in food to the prisoners. One dungeon larger than the rest was appropriated to the sick. In looking into this, with a candle, I discovered a ftovc, and felt some surprise at this little escape of humanity from the men who constructed these cells.

The dungeons in the new prison are abodes of misery £1111 more {hocking; and confinement in them so overpowers human nature, as sometimes irrecoverably to take away the senses.

I heard the cries of the distracted as I went down to them. One woman, however, I saw, who (as I was told) had sustained this horrid confinement forty-seven years without becoming distracted.

The cries of the sufferers in the torture-chamber may be heard by passengers without, and guards are placed to prevent them from stopping and listening. A physician and surgeon

In this and many other cities, the convict knows not of his execution, till three days before the time. Then he is constantly attended by his confessor, and indulged in the choice of food.

f- The dimensions were seven feet by six feet nine inches, and six feet and a half high. On one side was an aperture of six inches by four, for giving in the victuals,

Sect. IV. AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

always attend when the torture is applied; and on a signal given by a bell, the gaoler brings in wine, vinegar and water to prevent the sufferers from expiring. — “ tender mercies of the wicked are cruel” Thus in the Spanish inquisition, the physician and surgeon attend to determine the utmost extremity of fuftering without expiring under the torture.

I will only add, that in this prison there are rooms appropriated to prisoners en pension; that is, to such as are confined by the magistrates, at the desire of their parents, guardians or relations. A shocking practise! which prevails also in some of the neighbouring countries.

In the Maison de Force there were ninety prisoners, ranged in four rooms, and employed in a woollen manufactory of linings for soldiers clothes. Persons live in the house who well understand the business, and instruct the prisoners in sorting, carding, spinning, twitting and weaving. None of them were in irons. All had separate beds, and.were supplied with good rye bread — meat three times a week — two quarts of beer, for each, every day — and soup every other day.f

AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

In the Austrian Netherlands I found the prisons in general clean; and no sickness prevailing in any one of them: and yet few of the prisons have a court: in most of them every prisoner is confined to his room. In some places, as at Antwerp, &c. the allowance to criminals is scanty; a pound and a half of bread a day, and a pound of butter a week: but the deficiency

See Chandler's Translation of Limborch's Hist. the vol II. p. 222.

f The chaplain,who lives in the house, favoured me with his company through the work-rooms, lodging-rooms, and the refe&ory. He entered into the true spirit of this institution, and lamented the inconvenience of the house, as not being built for the purpose to which it is applied. He took notice of the propriety of solitary confinement for those that were riotous and refractory at their firrt coming;for generally, he said, of in four or five days they would become tcrytradUble and submissive.”

125

Liege.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Antwerp

House of Correction.

is fully made up by supplies from the monafreries &c. Debtors very few: alimented by creditors.

In the prison at Antwerp there are two rooms for citizens; and of stairs there is a cage, about six feet and a half square, into which criminals are put before the torture. A criminal, while he suffers the torture, is clothed in a long ftlirt, has his -eyes bound, and a physician and surgeon attend him: and -when a confefion is forced from him, and wine has boen given him, he is required to lign his confession; and about forty-eight hours afterwards he is executed.

In a small dungeon is a stone feat like some I have ieen in old prison towers, in which it is said that formerly prisoners were suffocated by brimfone, when their families wished to avoid the disgrace of a public execution. No person here remembers an instance of this kind; but about thirty years ago there was a private execution in the -prison. In this prison there were only two prisoners.

The river runs under the of correction. At the entrance, on me-side are the keeper's apartments; on the othery the warehouse and the room for the magistrates.* On three Tides of a paved court there are thirteen cells for the mm, and over them are the rooms for the women. On one side of the court are the young women who are put in by their parents or relations; and on the other, the criminals. All the nun were employed in spinning cotton; so were some of the , and the rest in making lace. A pound of cotton at a time is delivered to each; for spinning which, thirteen sous are paid. 1 found, by the books, that at first coming, some did not earn more than seven or eight sous in a week, but soon after they earned from twelve to fourteen. Rye bread (to the value of half a fiver each meal) and water, is their allowance; and whatever they have more than this, they are required to pay for out of their earnings. They are obliged to put on clean linen every week, towards washing which each pays a sous. The

In foreign hcufei of corrttllon there is a room appropriated to the use of the regents or magistrates, that they may the more conveniently inspect and transact the affairs of the house,

f A /cutis about a halfpenny,

Sect. IV. AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

stoves are heated twice a day, and candles and lamps are provided, at the expense of the magistrates.

There are three rooms for the ungovernable. One of them has a Aoor made of triangular pieces of wood a few inches asunder. The prisoner is chained in such a manner in the middle of this floor, that he can move but a few steps; and being allowed no shoes, whether he stands or lies down, he muff be in a very uneasy posture. This room therefore is dreaded by the prisoners. The other rooms are abodes so dark and solitary, as to be almost equally dreadful.

The nun are never fuflfered to go out, except on Sundays and other holidays, when they go to the chapel, in which they have feats below. The women sit in a gallery, with a lattice of wood before them. Here, and also.in the prison, a table of regulations is hung up, which is read in public by the chaplain* the first Sunday after the entrance of every prisoner. These regulations consist of thirty-six articles, from which I have taken the following extracts.

The prisoners must be submissive to the keeper and to his wife; and if they think themselves injured, must complain to the regents. — The times fixed for rising are, at half after fix in the morning from December ift to February 15th, and all the rest of the year at five, or half after five; but on Sundays and holidays at six. — The times of meals are fixed at seven, twelve, and seven. — The prisoners are allowed, at their own expense, at breakfast a pint of tea; and at dinner soup or broth, or a pint of tea or finall beer, and at supper the same quantity of tea or beer; and on Sundays and other holidays a certain quantity of boiled meat: and every week, a pound of butter, and fruit to the value of half a Jl.* — Every day the keeper

is obliged to prepare two forts of soup or broth, and at seven to the contrary morning to give the prisoners their choice of either fort, or none. — After service on Sundays, the are permitted to walk in the court, and the women in the gallery half an hour, -under the inspection of the keeper and officers. — They forfeit half a fi'tver^ every time they curse or swear, or make a disturbance

* A stiver is about a penny.

127

Amwm

Horn

or

Oovvcc-

TIOH.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Antwerp House of Correction.

Mechlin.

Brussels.

in the chapel; and also every time they are not up in half an hour after they are awakened by the keeper, and for every hour they deep longer. — If they perfilt in insulting the keeper or his wife after admonition, they pay a stiver, and are also punished by having their doors or windows fall closed up. — If they make any noise or disturbance after nine at night to break the reji of their fellow-prisoners, they are ordered to forfeit a

schelling,* and to be punished at the discretion of the regents: who are likewise empowered to make such alterations as they think proper in the rules; and in case of sickness or old age, to give indulgences to the prisoners, with respect to their diet, times of rising, &c.

At Mechlin, one of the best rooms in the prison is for debtors: but none in it. Three criminals up stairs: no dungeons. Allowance, two sixpenny loaves and a pound of butter weekly: on Sunday a pound of meat, and some soup: three pints of small beer daily. Straw, and two blankets. Firing from the ift of November to the ill of May. Clean linen every week from a charity. The mode of torture I will not describe.

At Brussels, there were twenty-four felons in the prison La Porte de Halle, which con fills of twenty-four chambers, distinguished by the letters of the alphabet. Each prisoner had a separate room: daily allowance, two pounds of bread (pain de munition) and some soup: on Sunday, except in Lent, a pound of meat. A keeper of the house of correction was lately committed to this gaol for abuse of his trull. Debtors are sent to another prison: the creditor is obliged to advance a month's aliment. In that prison I saw an Englishmen, who had his wife and two or three children with him; but they were not permitted to stay at night.

The house of correction is an old building, and the prisoners are soon to be removed to that at Vilforde. They are all employed; for at present they have a careful and attentive keeper. Some tailors and shoe-makers were at work; but most of the men were occupied in the manufacture of paper-hangings;carving the moulds, grinding the colours, and staining the paper. The women prisoners were entirely separated

About six pence.

Sect. IV. AUSTRIAN FLANDERS. 129

from the men, and were employed in making lace. All the prisoners have clean linen every week.

The house of correction now building near Vilforde, for the provinces of Austrian Brabant, is upon as large a scale as any structure of the kind that I have seen. It is situated near the great canal leading to Brufiels; and is almost surrounded by water. The ground plot, a plan of which I have by me, is rectangular, except a sweep before the court of the governor's house. The longer sides are about two hundred and ten yards j the shorter, about one hundred and sixty-seven. At the back of one of the longer Tides, fronting the west, I counted eighty windows on a floor, each two feet by one. There are the same number opposite, looking inwards towards the courts. Each of these belongs to a separate room or cell, near six feet and a half by five and a half, and eight feet high; and a long passage eight feet and a half wide runs through each floor, into which all the opposite rooms open. Two floors of this side are finished, making three hundred and twenty rooms; there are two more, as yet unfinished, of the same number of rooms. Each of the two shorter sides has one hundred and seventy-six rooms, of the same size as the others, and on as many floors. Part of these sides are finished;so that, including some rooms on each side the governor's house, about five hundred are now ready of the nine hundred and ninety-two. On some vacant ground at the shorter sides, more rooms will be built if wanted. Of so great importance is it wifely judged by these Provinces, to keep every.prisoner at night by himself, that this vast number of rooms is contrived that each may lodge one person only.

On each side the gate of the court before the governor's house, is a porter's lodge. Prisoners will pass this way to their respective wards behind the house. Those committed for life will be quite separate from those who are for a limited term: and men totally so from women; not only in their wards, rooms, and refectories; but also in two distinct chapels. These

The prices of bread were hung up In the Maison it Nov. 14th, 1778; tvbiu bread,9tz. — beufebdJ, 10 ez. — brown bread, 11 o*. for one /liver, or about a penny.

Vit-

roKox.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

VII.-

rORDE.

Bruces.

chapels are octagons of about thirty-five feet; and on eiach floor the prisoners will have a room looking into them. The work-rooms are numerous; about forty feet by twenty: some up stairs, others under ground for weaving fine linen: but no prisoners are to flfcep under ground. Stair cases all stone, six feet wide: some dark cells for confining the refractory. A kitchen forty-seven feet by thirty-four: , and

house large in proportion, and commodious. Convenient apartments for several chaplains: and proper rooms for a military guard. Two spacious infirmaries are designed.

At Bruges there is to the prison a court for , and

another for debtors: but the former are never let out. Each fort has a daily allowance in money, about three pence halfpenny English: provisions rather cheaper than in London: a clean shirt every week. Debtors have the allowance from their creditors; who also pay the keeper a small fee at the entrance of the prisoner, and a penny a day during his confinement. No dungeons. Two things are remarkable in this prison, and well worth imitating. One is, the care they take of the ftch. There are two medical books, one for the city, the other for the seigneuries or lordships, which are governed by different

magistrates, blit the prison is common to both. The physician at every visit enters his prescription in the respective book, which is carried to the apothecary;who, after copying the recipe, fends the book back again; and it is kept in the

room where the magistrates meet to hold a court df judicature, inspect the prison &c. I spent some hours in looking over them. The prescriptions arc written with regularity for many years past. Bark and cordials were alinoft constant ingredients in the recipe. They are not troubled with infe&iolis distempers; but perhaps the physicians are somewhat apprehen-five of them, and order those preventives with success. The physician orders a surgeon to attend when the case requires one: and at his order also the keeper provides for the sick, foupy white bread See. the magistrates allowing for this fourteen pence a day, to continue till countermanded by the physician. Some sick prisoners have been many weeks thus liberally provided for.

Sect. IV. AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

The other exemplary practice is, their care of legacies and donations. In the council-chamber, under a picture representing visiting the sick, feeding the hungry, and releasing the prisoner, there is in a frame a printed list of all charities given or bequeathed to the prisoners from the year 1315 to 1734; with the names and intentions of the several donors: and in another small frame is a memorial of the time at which each bequest is to be distributed.

At Ghent, in the prison called near the

superb Maison de Ville, each criminal has from the city about

four pence halfpenny English, a day: and provision being the re about one third cheaper than in London, some of them save a little out of that allowance after paying for the weekly waging of their linen.

In the state prison, governed by other magistrates, criminals have four pence a day. In each of those prisons the keeper has from the magistrates twd pence a day for the custody of every prisoner. In the two prisons, four debtors.

Here is a prison belonging to the rich monastery of Benedictines in the abbey of St. Peter. There were thirty-five of the fraternity;who have many lordships, and part of the city in their jurisdiction. The prison joins to the abbot's court-house. Three dreary dungeons down nineteen steps: a little window in each: no prisoners. I went down; but my noting the dimensions of the windows &c. so enraged the keeper, that he would not indulge my curiosity any farther.

The house of correction for the city of Ghent is not so commodiously built, nor kept so clean as some other Flemish prisons: but there are very good rules of economy, of which I have a copy. Every prisoner is examined at his first coming; and if he be not healthy, he is not put among those that are so. That the keeper may not be tempted to oppress his prisoners, he is exempted from all taxes. The prisoners have a set talk of different forts of work: the profits of extra-work their own. The magistrates meet in the prison once a week to inspect it; and to appoint the fort and quantity of provision for every day

The name is derived from the sculpture over the gate, representing a prisoner nourhhed by the breast of his daughter, as related in the Roman hillory.

K of

13*

Baucis.

Ghent*

*3*

Ghent.

La

Mahon

be

Force*

FOREIGN PRISONS.

of the week, ensuing. They order the physician to foe the sick have broth, and other nourishment proper for thf^

The keeper provides it, and is paid by the magistrates«\

happened to go into the prison while they were there, and^them employed as above.

I shall beg leave here, on account of the humanity institution, to digress from my subjeefc by taking notice cmBri nunnery in this place. The hzfpitabU is not inhabi solely by nuns;it is destined to the reception of men are in fane, and Tick aged women. The insane have, wKjL

requisite, assistance from their own sex *, and the tendering^ with which both these and the poor women are treated by fitters, gave me no little pleasure.

There is at Ghent a new prison building by the dates, ir Austrian Flanders. It is a house of correction for thatr/v/

provinces (as that at Yilforde for Austrian Brabant) and \ called La Maison de Force. It is situated near a canal. T14

plan is an oUagon: * only four sides finished: in one of the! were, in 1775* one hundred and fifty-nine men criminals in 1776, one hundred and ninety-one. Another of the fidd is for women, of whom there were fifty-nine. In the middk of this court is a baton of running water, for washing all thd linen of the house.

On each of the four floors there is a corridor, or arcade^ six feet nine inches wide, quite open to the air of the court j, which, however, is not attended with any inconvenience, everi in winter. In the recess of every corridor, except the lowed, is a range of bed-rooms, six feet nine inches by four feet ten*, ami eight feet eight inches high: the door-way two feet.

1'! f: are uniformly furnished with a bedstead, six feet and a half by two and a half, a draw bed, a mattress, a pillow, a pair of sheets, two blankets in winter, and one in summer. l'ach 100m has a little bench, and a (hutter to the lattice v/im'.ow (in the door) which, when opened and turned down, h ives for a table. In the wall is a little cupboard, two feet by one, and ten inches deep. All the rooms arc vaulted, to prevent fire from running from (lory to dory. No person is on

any pretence admitted into the bed-room of another. The)

1 procured an ergravinj* of it, which appeared to me worth copyim*.

h

Sect. IV. AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

have a clean shirt once a week, and clean sheets once a month. The women have not separate rooms. Some of theirs arc ten feet and a half by nine and a half.

In order to the admission of a prisoner, previous notice must be given by the city or province that fends him. When he comes, he is shaved and washed: a surgeon examines him; and if healthy, he is clothed with the uniform of the house, which is marked with the number of his room; to it he is conduced by one of the most orderly of the prisoners; who is appointed to that service, and who also acquaints him with the rules of the house. Commitment from one year to twenty or more.

A bell is rung in the morning to summon the prisoners into the dining-room; in the summer at five; in winter the hour varies with the length of the days. Half an hour after the bell rings, their names are called over; and they go to prayers in a chapel. They are then allowed half an hour to breakfast. At noon they have two hours, for dinner, making their beds (which in fair weather they bring out to air) and for recreation. I was present during the whole time the men criminals were at dinner, and much admired the regularity, decency, and order, with which the whole was conduced. Every thing was done at a word given by a director j no noise or confusion appeared; and this company of near one hundred and ninety flout criminals was governed with as much apparent ease, as the most foberand well-disposedaflembly in civil society. At night they have an hour for supper &c. The bell gives notice of all these successive hours: it is rung at a window over the gate-way by a emtineh, who there overlooks the whole court; and, should there be any disturbance, is to give the alarm to a company who keep guard.

Qn the ground floors of the building are work-rooms. Those for the men are too small for the looms &c. The women's work-room is one hundred and seventy feet long, twenty-six wide, and nine to the springing of the arch. In this, many were spinning and combing wool; menuing linen &c. Others were washing in places proper for that purpose.

*33

Ghent

La Maison De Force.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Ghent

La

Maison

P E

Toitu

An exact account is kept of every circumstance relating to each man's work, in a book that has fourteen columns. The

ill column contains the names of prisoners.

2. The fort of fluff on which each man is employed j as

/balloon, cloth, dimity

3. The number that is marked on the piece.

4. The day it was begun.

5. The day it was finished.

6. Measure of the whole piece.

7. Number of working days, the prisoner was upon it.

8. The task due per day.

9. Surplus work upon the piece beyond talk.

10. Price of the piece per ell.

11. Observations, on occasional circumstances: such as

lame, dljpcult worfirst piece

12. Payment to prisoners for surplus work.

13. Deficiency of talk.

14. Punishment for the default.

This last column is written by the magistrates themselves.

I saw in it — often excuse — sometimes make up in next — sometimes to work alone — -to bread and water — seldom to rasping logwood. The daily allowance is two pounds of bread: fame soup of beans, pease &c. with wheat bread in it, and except Friday and Lent half a pound of cold meat. Each prisoner has all'o the value of our farthing, for which he can buy near two pints of small beer j or somewhat else which the victualler of that prison is allowed to fell, and deliver to them at a wicket in the wall. Spirituous liquors are expressly prohibited: and so is wine, unless it be ordered by a note from the physician. It is not allowed to give any thing directly to the prisoners: but there is a box into which money may be put; and at Hated times it is equally distributed among them. Cards, dice, and all gaming are strictly forbidden: and there are excellent rules for preventing all quarreling j for mending their morals j preserving their health; and making them for the future uietul in society. To transcribe all the rules would to most readers be disagreeable. Such as wish to fee them will find them, together with more particulars of this noble insti-1, in two cdicls printed in folio at Ghent in 1773 and

/Si

Sect. IV. FRENCH FLANDERS.

75; the first in French and Low Dutch, the latter only French: and in a book in quarto written by Count Vilain XIV. and offered to the government in 1775. The title of it is Memoir* fur les Moyens de corrigcr les et a

leur propre Avantage et de les rendre Utiles a

I said transcribing all the rules at length, would be tedious;for this reason I have only given extracts from these, and from those made for other foreign prisons. I have complete copies of them, and of others which I have not mentioned; some printed, others M S. which I will readily shew to any gentleman who has leisure and inclination to study the subject

I revisited this prison in 1778 with one of the magistrates, and found that they were still carrying on a well-regulated manufactory. There were two hundred and eighty men prisoners, and one hundred and seventeen women. These latter had on the house clothes, and were at work. Most of them were spinning or knitting, ranged in proper order, attentive and quiet. I was informed that all the prisoners are allowed one fifth of their earnings for themselves. I brought home specimens of the cloth, as I did of the paper from Brussels j which I mention, because I know an idea has prevailed, that no manufacture can be carried on by convicts to any valuable purpose.*

*35

Ghent

La Maison De Force.

FRENCH FLANDERS and FRANCE.

The French provinces in Flanders and the Netherlands, are chiefly governed by the same arret as the provinces in France.

I have been very particular in my accounts of foreign houses cornelian, especially those of the freest Hates, to counteract a notion prevailing among us, that compelling prisoners to work, especially in public, was incontinent with the principles of English liberty} at the same time that taking away the lives of such numbers, either by executions, or the diseases of our prisons, Teems to make little impression upon us. Of such force is custom and prejudice, in silencing the voice of good sense and humanity!

*3«

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Lille.

Arras.

Amiens.

Park*

I visited the prisons at Lille, but found nothing worthy of imitation. La Prison Royale is under no proper regulation;

and the unhealthy countenances of the prisoners at the citadel, intimate the pernicious effects of lying in damp rooms, under the fortifications.*

The two hospitals La Comtejf and are lofty

buildings, designed only for the admission of j for in this city there are no hospitals for sick women, f The patients are distinguished into three forts, wounded — very sick — and

recovering: they have different wards aligned them accordingly, every patient has a bed to himself. Here cleanliness is the agreable effect of the great attention given to the patients by the nuns, t

In the prison at Arras I observed one circumstance which was different from what I had seen in France. Of one hundred and thirty-nine prisoners, I saw two in the court who had irons. But upon asking one of them the reason of it, he told me “ it was for attempting an escape.”

At Amiens are two prisons; one for Les Bourgeois et Le Libertinage; the other. La Conciergeri In the town-house, I saw great numbers attending the trial of a woman for confining her son. He was then about thirty-two years of age, and had been confined sixteen years, with a severity which had almost deprived him of his intelle&s. The prosecution was carried on by his father's relations, who had been long solicitous for his release.

In or near Paris are the , Grand and Petit

Chatelet. Fort L'Evique, V Abb aye, and the

My fir(V question in each prison commonly was. Whether the gaoler or keeper resided in the house ? and the answer was always in the affirmative.

I observed this, because there was reason to apprehend, that some of the English prisoners would be removed hither.

+ L'Hopital Central indeed admits both sexes, but that is on a different foundation, and is somewhat similar to the houses of industry in Suffolk, Norfolk, and the Isle of Wight.

t When a sick person arrives at either of these hospitals, his bed is immediate* «-d him. 1 hen one of the Afters brings warm water, wattles his feet, m, and kifTes one foot. Another brings clean sheets and a clean towel, ervant makes and warms the bed, and the patient goes directly into it.

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

r Most prisons in the city have three or four doors, from four feet to four and a half high, separated from each other by a little area or court. Within the inner door is, in fotne prisons, a turnstile. The number and lowness of the doors (at each of

which you must stoop) and the turnstiles, effectually prevent the prisoners rushing out.

In most of the prisons there are five or six turnkeys j viz. two or three at the doors: one walking in the court, to prevent conferring and plotting (a circumstance to which French gaolers are very attentive): one at the women's ward: and every day one of them is abroad, or otherwise at leisure. This liberty they have in rotation. They are strictly prohibited, under severe penalties, from receiving, any thing of the prisoners, directly or indirectly, on any pretence whatever. The gaoler is obliged to board themj and to pay each of them at least one hundred livres a year.

I was surprised at seeing that none of the prisoners were in irons. No gaoler (1 was informed) may put them on a prisoner, without an express order from the judge. And yet in some of the prisons, there were more criminals than in any of our London gaols. When I was first there, the number had been recently increased by an insurrection on account of the scarcity of corn. My reader will perhaps presently fee reason to conclude, that the manner in which prisons are conduced makes the confinement more tolerable, and chains lese needful. Indeed it was evident, from the very appearance of the prisoners in most of the gaols, that humane attention was paid to them.

Most of the courts arc paved; and they are washed three or four times a day. One would hardly believe how this freshens the air in the upper rooms. I felt this very sensibly once and again when I was in the chambers: and an Englishmen, who had the misfortune to be a prisoner, made the same remark. I seldom or ever found in any French prison that offen-five smell which I had often perceived in English gaols. I sometimes thought these courts were the cleanest places in Paris. One, circumstance that contributes to it, besides the number of turnkeys, is, that most of them are near the river.

m

Paris.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Paris.

As prisoners are not properly separated, it is difficult to keep such as become the king's evidence apart from the rest: the gaoler of Le Petit Chatelet was obliged to fit up a separate room for that purpose.

Prisoners, especially criminals, attend mass every day, and the gaoler or a turnkey with them: but such of them as are Protestants are excused. No person is admitted into any prison during the time of divine service.

As condemned criminals generally throw off all reserve, and by relating their various adventures and success, prove pernicious tutors to young and less practised offenders; care is taken to prevent this mischief, by fending those who are sentenced to the galleys, to a fepatate prison at the Port de St,;

where they are kept till the time for their being carried oft”. Some continue there many months; but their term commences two days after sentence. I heard that about two hundred were sent from that prison to Marseilles and Toulon, a week or two before I was there, in 1776. At my last visit, I found only fifteen prisoners, who were chained two and two together. Their daily allowance is one pound and a half of good bread, and half a -pound of meat, and soup. On meagre days they are allowed pease in their soup. On their journey they have daily two pounds of bread, half a pound of meat, a pint of wine, and about a quarter of a pound of cheese, or eggs. They, are sent from hence to Marseilles, Toulon, Brest, &c. on the 25th of May and the 10th of Sep- ttmber, and are joined with many other convicts from the provinces. I was informed that in May 1778, one hundred and sixty-three went off from this prison.

To prevent the frequent consequences of desperation, no one condemned to death by the inferior court, is without hopes of life, till the parliament, to which he commonly appeals, confirms or reverses the sentence: and they never make known their decision, till the morning of the day on which a prisoner is to suffer. Then they publish a confirmation of the former sentence; and it is fold in the streets. Executions are often in the afternoon: the last that I saw was by torch-light.

The chambers are opened at seven in the morning, from November ift to Easter; at six, from Easter to November:

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

and shut in the evening at fix, from November ift to Easter; at seven, from Easter to November. But debtors have an hour more at night. This they commonly spend in the court; as they do not choose to be there in the day-time, among felons. Common-side prisoners are obliged to come out of their night-rooms at the forementioned morning-hours; experience having shewn, that lying in bed and idleness, are productive of the jcurvy and other distempers. Women are kept quite fepa-

rate from men. When there is but one court, as in the ciergerie, they have the use of it from twelve till two; and the men are shut up. I happened to be in that prison at those hours. The court is fifty-five yards by thirty-eight, and has a fine piazza on three fides; on one side the piazza is double. This was the largest prison in the city before the fire in January 1776; but the Grand Chatelet is now larger, and has more prisoners, viz.371. In this prison (the )and the Petit

Chatelety I observed the infirmaries were the uppermost rooms: “ the best situation,* as one of the gaolers observed, “ both M for air, and to prevent the spreading of any infectious distemper.* Men and women had separate sick wards.

Taking garnish,or footing, is strictly prohibited. If pri-

soners demand of a new comer any thing of that fort, on whatever pretence;if, in order to obtain it, they distress him by hiding his clothes &c. they are shut up for a fortnight in a dark dungeon, and suffer other punishment. They are obnoxious to the same chastisement for hiding one another's clothes, or being otherwise injurious.

The daily allowance to criminals is a pound and half of good bread, and some soup. The soup is not made, nor is any other provision dressed, in the prisons. They have clean linen once a week, from a society, which was instituted about the year 1753. The occasion of it was the prevalence of a contagious disease which in France they call It,the scurvy. This distemper was found to proceed from the prisons; and to spread in the Hotel Dieu, whither prisoners that had it were removed. The cause of it was generally thought to be want of cleanliness in prisons; where several of those con-

fined had worn their linen for many months, and infected the most healthy new-comers that were put in the room with them.

*39

Pa *x».

140

Pakii.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Eight hundred were ill of it at once in the hospital of St. Louis, to which all that were sick of it in the Hotel Dieu had been carried.' By the Abbe Breton's exerting himself on this occasion, a fund was raised to support prisoners in the Grand Chatelet with clean linen every week. This put an effectual stop to the malady in that prison. Numbers afterwards joined the society: the King and Queen honoured it with their contributions: and the charity extended to three other prisons; so that at last seven hundred prisoners were provided for in the same manner, and a flock of linen requisite for that purpose, viz. five thousand shirts, was completed. The elder prisoners have charge of the linen that is in the prison; they receive it (every Saturday) and return it, and are gratified by the society; which continues to the present time.* Besides this, there is scarce a prison in the city that has not a patroness; f a lady of character, who voluntarily takes care that those in the infirmaries be properly attended;gives them drugs; supplies them with fuel, and linen; does many kind offices to the prisoners in general; and by soliciting the charity of others, procures not only the relief and comforts mentioned already, but soup twice a week, and meat once a fortnight.

There is also annually at each prison somewhat like our charity sermons; public service in the chapel, and a collection. On these occasions the patroness attends; as I saw at Christmas 1778, and soon after found the prisoners supplied with clothes.

Those who fieep on straw, pay the gaoler no fee at entrance, or discharge; but they pay one or halfpenny a day; and have clean straw once a month: those in the dungeons, once a fortnight. These arc seldom let out; never in the court.

The chamber-rents are all regulated. Those who fieep on beds, pay ten sous entrance, and the same when discharged. If they lie alone, they pay five sous a day;if two in a bed, three sous each. The gaoler finds them clean sheets in summer, once in three weeks;in winter, once a month. Those who

For a further account of this meji useful institution, fee it la.Puis, 1767, Tom, I. p. 510 &c.

f Trtfti Uracu Dames ie

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

have a bed, not a room to themselves (demi pension) pay a Turn not exceeding three Imres a day (two shillings and seven pence halfpenny): but nothing at entrance or discharge. Such as have a chamber to themselves (pand firing, pay twenty feus a week more: if no fire-place, fifteen feus. Both these forts have clean sheets in summer, once a fortnight; in winter, in three weeks. The gaoler's servants attend them.*

All the regulations are read in the chapel to prisoners, the first Sunday of every month, by the chaplain; and they hang up in the prison for common inspection. If any prisoner tears, or otherwise damages them, he suffers corporal punishment: if a register or gaoler does so, he is fined twenty: if a turnkey, he is discharged.

The discipline observed is so exa£l, that at the late fire in the Corniergerie^ the numerous prisoners (a9 I was informed)

were removed without any confusion, or a single escape. There are good rules for preserving peace; for suppressing profaneness; for prohibiting gaolers or turnkeys abusing prisoners by beating them or otherwise ;t forbidding their furnishing them with wine or spirituousjiquors, so as to cause excess, drunkenness &c. Keepers are punished for this, when known to the magistrates, by a fine for the first offence; and for the second by stripes.

I had the curiosity to procure lifts of these different forts of prisoners in the sundry prisoos. One of them 1 will here transcribe as a specimen; viz.

In. the Concicrgcr'u there were, June ift, 1776,

On ft raw. Men, 99.

Women, 2*.

In the infirmary, Men,

Women, J*,

In the dungeons, Men,

Boarders and half-boarders. *3-

Such as boarded themselves, >6.

202.

Boarders pay in this prison, forty-five livres a month; half-boarders, twenty-two livres and a half; those who board themselves, seven livres and a half. There were fix turnkeys.

f Monsieur Guy du Rouffeaud de la Combe, in his Matierts -

ntlles, Paris, 1769, quarto, 6th edition, cites at page 339, an arret of parliament in the last century, that condemned a gaoler to be hangedj because he let a prisoner pertth for want of food.

141

Paris.

1* Pa* is«

FOREIGN PRISONS.

They are allowed to sell some things to their prisoners; but the quality, quantity and price must be such as the ordinances of police define and require.

The turnkeys viiit the dungeons four times a day; in the morning when the prisons are opened, at noon, at fix in the evening, and at ten at night. I was sorry to find the humanity which is so conspicuous in the forementioned, and other excellent rules, so deficient as to continue the use of those subterraneous abodes; which are totally dark, and beyond imagination horrid ar.d dreadful. Poor creatures are confined in them night and day for weeks, for months together. If the turnkeys find any prisoners sick, they must acquaint the physician and surgeon, who visit them j and if needful, order them to more wholesome rooms till they recover.

A prisoner of rank, a very fenable man, to whom I was speaking concerning gaolers, said, “ They pay nothing to the “ crown, and their revenue is not small; at the , it

t4 is about fifteen thousand Hires; at the Grand twenty

44 thousand;at F: rt L'Evequtytwenty thou fund;at the Petit 41 Chatelcty twelve thousand;at ,ten thousand. And all things considered,” he added, ”prisoners have no just reason to complain of this class of men in France.”

The nomination of a gaoler belongs to the magistrates. When he has been nominated, he is proposed to the procureur general \ and if, after a careful inquiry into his character, it appears that he has the reputation of a man of probity, he is fixed in the office, and takes an oath of fidelity. The office is freely given him without any expense whatever;so that keepers are not tempted, by paying for their places, to oppress their prisoners: to remove all pretext for so doing, rents which they formerly paid to the crown are remitted, and the leases given up.

As for debtors^ their number is small. Of the 202 pri-

foners in the Csncierger'uyhut fix were debtors. In some other prisons there were a few more. This perhaps is owing to the following good arrets. Every bailiff who arrests and imprisons a debtor, mull pay to the gaoler in advance, a month's or subsistence, i. c. ten Hires ten equal to nine

English (provisions being at Paris cheaper in general

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

than at London): and if the like sum be not paid within fourteen days after the end of every month, the prisoner is set at liberty. Besides this, the debtor pays no costs of arrests &c. The whole of them falls on the creditor: and so do all expenses occasioned by his sickness or death.

As the best regulations are liable to be abused, prisoners are not thought sufficiently provided for by enabling good laws: the execution of them is carefully attended to The substitutes of the attorney-general should visit the prisons once a week, to inquire if the rules be observed;to hear complaints of prisoners;to fee if the Tick be properly attended; and the like. — Besides this, the parliament of Paris fends to all the prisons five times a year two or three counsellors with a substitute of the attorney-generaly and two clerks. They go at Christmas, Ealler, Whitsuntide, one day before 15th August, St. Simon and Jude.-There is in each prison (as in other foreign gaols) a room for their reception, called the council. It is occupied at other times by the head-gaoler.

The arrival of this deputation is announced by boys, who, though offenders, are allowed to do little errands in the prison: these go round the court and into every room, giving notice of it aloud. The deputies go, without the gaoler or turnkeys, into every room and dungeon, and

1st. They ask the prisoners one by one, if they have any complaint to make of the gaoler or his servants. But they never meddle with those who are confined by an order from the king.

2. They receive the petitions of criminals who have been detained too long without trial.

3. In case of debts not exceeding two thousand livres (about ninety pounds) if the debtor can raise a third part of his debt, and no more, they receive it for the creditors. How they clear him of the remaining two thirds, I will shew presently. They take notes of these matters in the prison j and give an account of all to the parliament, at their general public meeting a day or two af"~r.

In behalf of criminals who have not been tried, the parliament commonly orders the attorney-general to write in their name to the inferior judges, inquiring into the causes of delay,

Paris.

144

Pa

FOREIGN PRISONS.

or ordering expedition. If a prisoner be acquitted, he is dif*

charged within twenty-four hours.

The laws of France do not in ordinary cases admit a debtor to bail without the consent of his . But in the case

mentioned above, the parliament obliges creditors to accept of bail for the remainder of debts under two thousand And even this bail seems a matter of mere form; for they sometimes take for hair men that are insolvent. I have heard there is no stanaing law for this; and that it is rather an immemorial custom: because the parliament enacts a particular law for each case as it occurs. In France there are no insolvent acte. — When prisoners have received their liberty from the king, or their creditors, they cannot detained a moment for fees, hire of rooms, debts contracted in prison, or on any pretence whatever.

The deputies hear no complaints of the gaoler against his prisoners. When he has any to make, he applies to the chief justice, by whole order the prisoner was committed. If he was imprisoned by an order from the king, he applies to the lieutenant-general of the police; if without such an order, to the lieutenant-criminal See.

Besides the deputation now mentioned, the parliament appoints to each prison one of their own body, a counsellor. They always choose a gentleman of fortune and good character: he is called CommiJshire dc lu Prison. His business is much like

that of the deputation; and his office perpetual. By frequent discourse with prisoners I learned, that these officers are very humane to the distressed. They can (as the parliament) oblige creditors to accept one third part of debts under two thousand livres: but they use this power with much caution.

L'A»- L*Abboyeis a prison for the military or guards, and for *AY*' such debtors as are men of rank. In the debtors rooms, a partition of lath and plaster detached from the brick-wall, is an expedient to prevent escapes. For if the ftnalleft perforation be made in the partition, it is immediately discovered, by the mortar falling between that and the wall into the keeper's court, through the aperture which was left for that purpose. picemr. The Hicttre is upon a imall eminence about two miles from Paris. If it were only a prison, I should call it an enormous

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

one; but this for men, like the for women, is Park.

indeed a kind of general hospital. Of about four thousand men Bicetre. that are within its walls, not one half are prisoners. The majority are; the poor, who wear a coarse brown uniform, and seem as miserable as the poor in some of our country work-houses: the infant: and those that have the venereal disease.

Each fort is in a court and apartments totally separate from the

other, and from criminals. These are confined, some in little

rooms about eight feet square, window three feet and a half

by two feet, with a grate, but not many glazed. By counting the windows on one side of the house, I reckoned there must be five hundred of those rooms: there is but one prisoner in

each. These pay two hundred livresa year for their board.

There are others in two large rooms called La ,on the

other side of the court (La Cour Royale) which are crowded with prisoners: in 1778, there were upwards of two hundred.

Such a number confined together in idleness, must produce a great corruption of manners. Many at their unhappy end have ascribed their ruin to the flagitious examples they had here seen, and the instructions here given them.*

Over these two rooms is a general infirmary: and over that, an infirmary for the fcorbut; a distemper very common and fatal among them. There were sixty-three patients, most of them ill of this disorder. They contradf it in a year or two, from their confinement, as they are never suffered to go out of their rooms. Many lose the use of their limbs by it. I saw several such miserable objects at St. Louis's hospital, where they are often admitted at the expiration of their term at the Bicetre.

In the middle of La Cour Royale are eight dreadful dungeons down sixteen steps: each about thirteen feet by nine: with two strong doors; three chains fastened to the wall j and a stone funnel at one corner of each cell, for air. From the situation of these dreary caverns, and the difficulty I found in procuring admittance, I conclude hardly any other stranger

The French Teem now to be sensible of the bad of confining persons in idleness i for within the two last years they have here set some of their prisoners to work. In one room 1 saw thirty-six employed in polishing plate gla/Tes: and they were erecting a mill for grinding com, which is to be worked by sixteen men at a time.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

146

Paris.

Bicetrs.

Central

Hotn-

TAL.

Bastills.

ever saw them: that is my reason, and I hope will be an apology, for mentioning the particulars.

Prisoners make straw-boxes, tooth-picks &c. and fell them to visitants. I viewed the men with some attention; and observed in the looks of many a settled melancholy: many others looked very sickly. This prison is not so well managed as those in the city: it is very dirty: no fire-place in any of the rooms: and in the severe cold in 1775, several hundreds perished.

Water in plenty was thought of such importance here, that they have a stone well which is a curiosity. It was funk in 1735; is fifteen feet diameter, and near seventy yards deep. The two buckets hold each about three hogsheads: they are drawn up by horses, and empty themselves into a,

sixty-four feet square, and nine deep. A bucket is drawn up in five minutes. They work sixteen hours every day, not excepting Sundays; and draw daily about five hundred hogsheads. Three horses work at a time, and twelve are kept for the service.

The general hospital, or Salpetr, near the city, is for

women and girls. The latter are employed on the finest embroidery. Here are numbers of poor and insane; and a fifter-hood of religious reside in the house. The criminals are quite separate from the others, and seldom seen by strangers. There were but few of these employed. The house was cleaner, and better conduced than the Bicetre upon the same foundation.

The Bastille may occur to some of my readers, as an object concerning which some information would be acceptable. I am happy to be able to give this, by means of a pamphlet published in 1774, written by a person who was long confined in this prison. It is reckoned the belt account of this celebrated structure ever published j and the sale of it being prohibited in France under very severe penalties, it is become extremely scarce. I have extracted the most material circumstances of the description, and have caused the plate to be copied from that in the work.

“ This castle is a state prison, confining of eight very strong towers, surrounded with a fofse about one hundred and twenty feet wide, and a wall sixty feet high. The entrance is at the

XXXX

end of the street of St. Antoine, by a draw-bridge, and great gates into the court of VHotelGouvernement; and from thence over another draw-bridge to the corps , which is

separated by a strong barrier constructed with beams plated with iron, from the great court. This court is one hundred and twenty feet by eighty. In it is a fountain; and fix of the towers surround it, which are united by walls of free-done ten feet thick up to the top. At the bottom of this court is a large modern corps de logis, which separates it from the court du Puits. This court is fifty feet by twenty-five. Contiguous*to it, are the other two towers. On the top of the towers is a platform continued interraces, on which the prisoners are sometimes permitted to walk, attended by a guard. On this platform are thirteen cannons mounted, which are discharged on days of rejoicing. In the corps de logis is the council-chamber, and the kitchen, offices &c. above these are rooms for prisoners of didin&ion, and over the council-chamber the king's lieutenant resides. In the court du Puits is a large well for the use of the kitchen.

“ The dungeons of the tower de Liberte extend under the kitchen &c. Near that tower is a small chapel on the ground floor. In the wall of it are five nitches or closets, in which prisoners are put one by one to hear mass, where they can neither fee nor be seen.

“ The dungeons at the bottom of the towers exhale the most offensive feents, and are the receptacles of toads, rats, and other kinds of vermin. In the corner of each is a camp-bed, made of planks laid on iron bars that are fixed to the walls, and the prisoners are allowed some draw to lay on the beds. These dens are dark, having no windows, but openings into the ditch: they have double doors, the inner ones plated with iron, with large bolts and locks.

“ Of the five clades of chambers, the most horrid next to the dungeons are those in which are cages of iron. There arc three of them. They are formed of beams with drong plates of iron, and are each eight feet by fix.

“ The calottes^chambers at the top of the towers, are somewhat more tolerable. They are formed of eight arcades of free-done. Here one cannot walk but in the middle of the room.

ik

*47

Pahs.

Bastille.

I4S

r a «i ?.

Baj.

TILLS.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

There hardly sufficient space for a bed from one arcade to another. The window's, being in walls ten feet thick, and having iron grates within and without, admit but little light. In these rooms the heat is excessive in summer, and the cold in winter. They have stoves.

44 Aim oft all the other rooms (of the towers) are oftagons, about twenty teet in diameter, and from fourteen to fifteen high. T hey are very cold and damp. Each is furnished with a bed of gretn l'crge See. All the chambers are numbered. The prisoners are called by the name of their tower joined to the number of their room.

44 A surgeon and three chaplains reside in the castle. If prisoners of note are dangerously ill, they are generally removed, that they may not die in this prison. — The prisoners who die there are buried in the parish of St. Paul, under the name of domestics.

44 A library was founded by a prisoner who was a foreigner, and died in the the beginning of the present century.

Some prisoners obtain pemillion to have the use of it.

44 One of the continds on the iniide of the castle rings a bell every hour, day and n: ght, to give notice that they are awake: and on the on the outftie of the castle they ring every

quarter of an hour.*

I have inferred (oparticular on account of this prison, chieily with the design of inculcating a reverence for the principles of a t've or*' .\;ar: .*sr like our own, which will not permit in any degree the exercise of that despotism, which has rendered the name of JS.: f.V.V to formidable. I was desirous of examining it myself; and for that purpose knocked hard at the outer gate, and immediately went forward through the guard to the draw-bridge before the entrance of the castle. Put whilst I was contemplating this gloomy mansion, an officer came out much turn rued; and I was forced to retreat through the mute guard, and thus regained that freedom, which for «'na locked up within these walls it is next to im-jvtnble to obtain.

Many of my readers, acquainted with the fir id police of ee, would ha\e suppe-fed that the other prisons would u as inaCiXu.e.c to a Mutant os the E.~ i.V.V. And indeed

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

deed my first application for admittance at the Grand was unfuccef&ful. But fortunately remarking the tenth article* of the Arrit 1717* I pleaded it before the la

Prisorty to whom I was referred, and by its means gained admission as well into that prison, as those of Petit Chatelet and Fort f Evequey and had an opportunity of seeing almost every individual confined in them.

UHopital de St. Louis so^ the Tick, and VHotel are

indeed the two worst hospitals that I ever visited. They were so crowded, that I have frequently seen five or six in one bed, some of them dying. In one of my visits at I observed the number of patients written up tb be three thousand six hundred and fifty-five, f

But though these two hospitals are abominable, and a disgrace to Paris, it has many other charitable foundations which do honour to it} and from which this country may derive useful information. — This is a subject foreign to my chief purpose, and I have perhaps already enlarged too much upon it. I cannot help, however, just mentioning a few of these foundations.

In the Hopital de la Pitie there were about one thousand four hundred and twenty boys, who are clothed, and taught to read, spin See. These boys are admitted at about four years of age, and put out apprentices at thirteen or fourteen.

UHopital des Incurables is designed for the aged, infirm, and distorted, who are here clothed in a neat uniform, the men in gray, and the women in black. The nuns attend upon them.

Le Quinze Vingt Hopital is appropriated to blind persons.

UHopital des petites Maisons des is situated in a

spacious garden or court, containing a number of small houses for the aged and infirm of both sexes, and an hospital for the

The article is as follows.

Let gealiers conduiront let personnet qui viendront fdirt dee dam la li: ux la

prison ouellet dejireront let distribuer, ce qudieseiles-mema fur le preau ou

dam la cour \ met la aumCnet ne pourront etre difribuea darn la cacbots r.oirt que par

let maim du geolier,en presence des personnes qui la porteror.t.

f Over one of the gates of this hospital is the following inscription, which, from its application to such a place, has an air of ridicule and even of profane-ness.

a C'cfi icy Id Maison de Dicet Id Porte du del."

149

PAK 19.

Hospitals.

ISO

Paris.

P*o-

T1NCII.

Lyons.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

infant. Here are also infirmaries for the lick, which the nuns kindly superintend. The neatness and cleanliness I observed in them gave me such pleasure as engaged me to repeat my visit. Each person of the insane has a separate room; and they also are taken care of by the good lifters.

In the provincial gaols I saw little worth noting, but what has been already mentioned at Paris. These also have charitable patronesses, or patrons, who take care that the prisoners be not defrauded of their allowance; and procure them farther relief. But these prisons do not seem to be so carefully inspected as those in the city;although the arrets of parliament for regulation of both are for the most part similar, and were made in the same year, 1717.* They are drawn up with found judgment, and accurate knowledge of the complex subje£h I found many articles of them in the laws of other nations;but cannot say whether the French arrets were compiled from them, or followed by them.

The 32d article of the arret for the provinces requires that prisons be au raise, de chaujfte,” f level with the ground. Yet at Challons, and some other towns, I saw many prisoners in dungeons;larger indeed, but in other respects not much better than those at Paris. In the four horrid ones at the Prison de

St. Joseph (formerly a convent) at Lyons, June 1776, were twenty-nine criminals: the heat so excessive, that few of them had any other garment on than their shirts. Some of them were sick: none looked healthy. In the nine other rooms of that goal there were one hundred and twenty-eight prisoners; of which number twenty-two were women. To the Enciseey a state prison at Lyons, you afeend by more than two hundred steps: among the few prisoners in it, I fat talking

They are printed in quarto. The a for the city is dated iSth Jane: it contains thirty-nine articles. The title is jirrtfl Cour du,

Rcglcment general pour let Prisons, droits et fonffions det Grrjfers des Geoles, G rollers et

Guirbetiers defditet Prisons I jtvec le Tar if des droits suxditt Gcoliert. The

srrit for the provinces, dated ift September, has the same title, except the Tarif.

It contains thirty-three articles.

+ The foundation of this was probably the first article upon prisons in the t criminal ordonnance of Louis XIV. 1670, which direAs that they shall fed that the health of prisoners shall not be incommoded.

15*

a while with one who said he wap in the fiftieth year of his Lyons. confinement. I cannot leave this city, without flopping a minute longer to give a short account of an hospital here.

The Hotel Dieu is by the river side (the Rhone.) The Hotel principal building is in the form of a cross, near three hundred , EU* feet from end to end both ways. The wards thirty-two feet wide, and twenty-five feet high;with apertures between the joifls of the floor above, and two tier of windows; in many of them two casements. Three rows of iron beddeads in each ward. Under a dome in the centre is an o&agon altar, in view from every part of the cross. Prayers, which are read there twice a day, can be heard through the wards. This part of the house is for those that have fevers. There are other wards for the wounded; for lying-in-women j for foundlings;for the infant: all separate; and a room for chirurgical operations.

The cross-wards are so airy, as not to be in the lead offensive: and yet there are, in another part of the house, two upper rooms dill more airy and pleasant, (chambres convalescence: )

to these they remove patients that are recovering: and those whom I saw there said they were very refreshing. They come down from them at meals to a refectory. These rooms fbon complete the patients recovery; and seem an excellent precaution against the flow he£lic fever, of which our hospital-physicians so frequently complain; and it is chiefly on account of these that I mention the house.* The whole was clean and quiet. There are eight chaplains nine physicians and fur-geonsj and twelve fillers. These are ladies of a religious order, dressed in a neat uniform, who make upy as well as administer all the medicines prescribed j for which purpose there is an elaboratory and apothecary's shop, confiding of five or six apartments, the neated and most elegantly fitted up that can be conceived.

I was induced to take such particular notice of this hospital, from the re-c oiled ion of something firailar to these ebamhert convalescence proposed by ray ingenious friend Mr. Aikin of Warrington, in his Thought! on Hof fit ah. I had not the pamphlet then with me, -but have since turned to the passage, and find lie advises that all patients capable of fitting up, should remain through the day in large airy halls.”

L

FOREIGN PRISONS.

St. Omer's.

Dunkirk.

English Prisoners.

At La Prison Royalty or the new prison, at St. Omer's, the daily allowance is a pound and a half of bread, and soup. The prisoners have clean linen every week.

In the prison at Dunkirk, the French prisoners wrte in two or three rooms by themselves.

Here I found many of my countrymen prisoners of war. In five rooms there were a hundred and thirty three — ,

mates, passengers and common sailors all crowded together —

who lay on ft raw, with one coverlet for every three persons. In three other rooms there were thirteen accommodated in a better manner, because most of them were and

capable of paying six sous a night for their beds. The court was small, being only forty-two feet by twenty-six;nor was there sufficient plenty of water. The bread, beer, and soup were good, and the beef tolerable.f Each room was supplied with two small faggots a day for firing. The sick (of whom there were only three) were taken to the military hospital, and great attention was paid to them. The regulations were hung up in Ertglish $ and French.

In

A ran/omtr is a person confined as a security, till the sum is paid for which as ship has been ransomed.

-f- In the last war, the contract here was twelve a man; at present it Is fifteen.

t BY THE KING.

RULES to be observed by all Prisoners of War in the Kingdom of France;

Article I. The orders given by the commissary of the marines cncharged with the care of the prisoners are to be ftriaiy complied with unargued and undisputed.

None of the prisoners shall insult, threaten or abuse, much less (trike the turnkey, nor arty of those appointed to do business In the prison, under the penalty of incurring such punishment as shall be ordered by the commissary of the marines, and of losing turn of being exchanged j nay, further, they shall be close confined and deprived of one half of their food or pittance.

Art. II. All and every prisoner, when the commissary makes review, shall answer to their name or names, and if in the lift delivered to the commidary there be found any error, they shall point It out, that it may be rc&jfied, in order to prevent the confusion that might (efalt from mistaking of names.

Art. III. All prisoners that shall refuse to answer to their names at the review,

I unished by being deprived of their food till such time as they flibroitto

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

*53

In the prison at Bf.egubs I found forty-seven English pri- Bbbgvei. foners. The table of victualling was hung up here as at Dun- English kirk, but the provisions were not so good. There were twelve on their parole in this town, nine at Bourbourg, and two at Ardres, who told me they had procured bondsmen for their security.

The common prison at Calais, being smaller than that at Calais. Dunkirk, was much crowded; for it contained one hundred and twenty-seven English prisoners. Seventeen sailors lay in

Art. IV. If there happen any damage to the place where the prisoners are kept, whether it be with intent to make an escape, or otherwise purposely and wilfully committed, the expense for repairing such damage shall be paid out of the food of those that are found guilty of the infringement, and if there be no means of discovering the guilty persons, all the prisoners shall contribute an equal share out of their food to the charges of such repair.

Art. V. Whoever after escape from his prison is retaken, shall be shut in a dungeon, and shall be (tinted to half his pittance of food, till he has by this confinement satisfied for the expenses made forfeizing and bringing him back to gaol, and shall lose his turn of exchange besides. A sea-officer thus contravening, shall from that moment be looked upon and treated as a common sailor.

Art. VI. It is forbidden to fight, quarrel, or make any riot in the prisons or places where the prisoners are allowed to take the air, under pain of incurring such punishment as the offence may require.

Art. VII. The prisons shall be kept clean and neat by the sailors, every man in his turn as shall be regulated, and whatever sailor shall refuse this service in his turn, his food shall be withheld from him till he submit to it.

Art. VIII. The prisoners are to inform the commissary of the clothes or other ijeccffaries they may want, and can pay for, and the commissary shall not only allow them to be provided with such things, but shall also take care they be not imposed upon in the price.

Art. IX. In every prison the prisoners may appoint three or five of themselves, and change them at their pleasure, in order to inspect their victuals and fee if they be good, and if they have their share or portion whether in weight or measure according to the following victualling table j and if there arise any reason for complaint, either of dressing, serving them up, or otherwise, they are with decency to apprise the commissary of it, who finding such complaint well grounded shall give immediate redrefe and do them justice.

Art. X. It shall be allowed to tradesmen or fellers of ware (except such as deal ha things that are not fit to be sold to prisoners) to wait at the great gate of the prisons from ten o'clock in the morning till three in the afternoon, in order to fell their ware to such prisoners as have wherewithal to pay for them on the spot.

Art. XI. Whatever prisoner shall dare by this means to take or bring in strong liquors or other things that are not fit for prisoners, or shall receive or deliver any letter, shall be punished for the abuse he has made of this facility.

A TABLE

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Calau.

one room* on straw, without coverlets; a few had not even English straw: on my complaining of this to , hesaid, he

Pvr“ would send to St. Omer's for coverlets. After informing him farther, that I had found and mates confined

in France, blit that I supposed persons of this description in England were on their parole of honour $ he replied, and defiled I would note it down, that “ a parole could not be granted “ without security;a hundred guineas for captains, seventy-€€ five for mates, sixty for sailors, and twenty-five for boys/9 Passengers, I afterwards learned, were on the same footing with captains. On the second day of my being the re, the rules (the fame with those at Dunkirk) were hung up, both within and without this prison.

A'Xany of the prisoners in this and other prisons had no change of linen, and some were almost entirely destitute of clothes, being the crews of vessels fli ip wrecked in the great {form of December 31ft, 1778.

A TABLE OF VICTUALLING.

Days of the Week. Middling Beer or Cider. Bread. Beef.

Monday A Pot containing a quart and half Paris measure. X Pounds Avoirdn* pois Wt. 4 Pounds Avoirdupois Wt. 3 T

Tuesday X 4 3 T

Wednesday X 4 3 T

Thursday X 4 3 W

Friday X 4 -

Saturday X t IT 3 T

Sunday 1 4 3 T

7 Pots, or 10A. Quar. 4 j 4r

Butter. Cheese. Pease or Beans.

Ounces. Ounces. A Pint Half a Pounc Avoirdupois

_ Weight. 1 Y

- - X T

or 6 T

f

T

4 6

In such places where beer or cider cannot be had, there shall be delivered to eacbpri-Toner three quarters of a quart of wine per day, Paris measure.

That room was nineteen feet by twelve. In another smaller room, in two tiers, were twenty-three hammocks belonging to the sailors j for sometimes their '*mmocks were given them. The court of this prison was only twenty-five stet > u rteen and a half,

I found

J

- fey

Sect. V. PRISONERS OF WAR.

There were twenty-six of our people in a spacious ward in the military hospital, to whom great attention was paid. Each had a bed and sheets; and their bread and meat were good. But most of them having a disorder which did not break their spirits, they would have been better pleased if their allowance had been equal to that in the prison.

SECTION V. PRISONERS OF WAR in ENGLAND.

FRENCH PRISONERS.

When I visited my countrymen confined as prisoners of war in France, some of the commissaries and other gentlemen informed me, that they had received great complaints from the French prisoners in England. On my return in January 1779* I waited on the of of the Tick and wounded seamen, and gave them an account of the English prisoners in France, and of my intention to visit the French prisoners. In order to assist me in this business, they very readily and kindly favoured me with letters to their agents at several prisons.

Having determined to take another general view of English prisons, to fee what improvements had been made, in consequence of two late acts of parliament,* and of the charges given by the Judges in their circuits to the grand juries, I chose to begin my tour in those parts where most of the French prisoners were confined j and of them, therefore, I shall first give some account.

14th Geo. III. Cap. XLIII. and 16th Geo. III. Cap. XLIII.

*55

Calais.

English Prisoners.

Plymouth,

French Prisoners.

Bristol,

Winchester,

PRISONERS OF WAR.

In the Mill-prison near Plymouth, Feb. 3, 1779, there were three hundred and ninety-two French prisoners. The wards and courts in which they were confined, are not so spacious as those appropriated to the American prisoners, *nor were they so well accommodated with provisions. The hospital, which had fifty patients in it, was dirty and offensive, and I found there only three pair of (heets in use. — Here a new prison was building.

In the ship Cambridge there were three hundred and ninety-six prisoners; and the next day, two hundred and fifty more were coming in The bread was heavy, and the meat bad$ and too little attention was paid to the ftek. An hospital ship, called the Tiger, was fitting up for an infirmary.*

At Bristol, in a prison which had been a pottery, there were a hundred and fifty-one French prisoners, Feb. 9, 1779* 'Jt he wards were more spacious, and less crowded than those of the prison near Plymouth. There were two day-rooms, in which many shoemakers, tailors See. were at work: an advantage which the prisoners at Plymouth desired, but could not obtain. The bread was good. There being no infirmary, the lick were attended and victualled at a small house near the prison, where seven shillings a week was paid for each patient 'There were five in that house, in a dirty and offensive room.

There were one thousand and sixty-two confined in the prison at Winchester, March 2, 1779- The wards are lofty and spacious. The court airy and large. The meat and beer were good: but the bread (being made with leaven and mixed with rye) was not so good as that at Bristol.f If two or three of the rooms were to be used as work-rooms, the health of the prisoners would be promoted, and they would not be indolently lying in their hammocks in the day-time j as 1 observed they were, both here and at Mill-prison.

Several prisoners were confined in the dark hole. Forty days confinement on half allowance, in order to pay ten shillings

M. foppose this was to be art infirmary only till the hospital which they were building near Mill.prison was finished. The wards in this new hospital will be too low and dole, they being only seventeen feet ten inches wide, and ten feet high.

-f- I particularly observed the bread, as in France it is remarkably good and well baked. The French prisoners are much happier when an attention is paid to this article.

---

Sect. V. PRISONERS OF WAR. 157

[French Prisoners.]

to those that apprehend them after escapes, seems to be too severe a punishment. On such occasions, the Observation of the worthy magistrates at Bern always occurs to my mind, "that every one must be desirous of regaining liberty.”

The hospital wards here are lofty, and upwards of twenty feet wide. Each patient had a cradle, bedding and sheets; and the surgeon paid them great attention.*

[Forton.]

---

In a prison not very convenient at Forton near Gosport, there were a hundred and seventy-seven French prisoners, March a, 1779. On that day the meat was very bad, and had been killed, as the butcher's servant said, that morning i but it was returned, and Mr. Newfham the agent procured them good meat instead of it. — Most of the six pound loaves wanted weight. I saw the bread weighed for a hundred and forty-two prisoners, and observed a deficiency of three pounds. — The draw, by long use, was turned to dud in the mattresses, and many of them here, and at other places, had been emptied to clear them of vermin. The floors of the bed-rooms and hospitals could not but be dirty and offensive, the boards having been laid rough. I took notice of this kind of bad policy in all the floors of the new prison which was building here, and almost finished.

The regulations are in the French language, and are the same with those published lad wan. They are evidently the original from which those printed in page 152 are translated. For the fake of greater accuracy, they will be given at the end of the book. I was informed both here and at Winchester, that they had been hung up, but were torn down. — Would it not be better to paint them on a board, which should be fadened in some conspicuous place in every prison

On the prisoners complaining that the bread was too light, and the meat bad, I referred them to the ninth article of the

Mr. Smith the agent also was assiduous in his department. He mentioned to me, that he thought it would be an advantage if one of their priests (two of whom were at a little distance on their/, We) were permitted to attend the prisoners. This, he said, would be the means of comforting some, of aweing others, and of giving information whenever there was any jujl reason for complaints.

158 prisoners of war.

£«; regulations, by which they are directed to apply to the agent, *R8. " and (if not redrafted) to the commissiomrs. One of them pertinently replied, u How is that possible, when every letter is examined by the agent?”*

Dial. There is a new temporary prison at Deal for French prisoners. It has an airy and spacious room below, and another above, and a large and convenient kitchen. — The regulations were hung up, and the provisions of all forts were good. I made my first visit (as I do always) without the agents or contractors, and I had the pleasure of hearing the prisoners express their satisfaction.

The prison adjoins to the naval hospital, in which the sick and wounded prisoners have the convenience of a ward, similar to that which the English prisoners have at Dunkirk and Calais. There were seventy-three in the prison, and fifteen in this ward, April 17, 1779.

Carlisle.

In the county gaol at Carlisle, in ope large room in the debtor's ward, there were twelve French prisoners. May 10, 1779. They were not supplied with hammocks, as at Plymouth, Winchester, &c. but lay on straw without coverlets. Their allowance, six pence a day. pEM. On the 5th and 6th of June 1779, I visited the prisons at

brokr. Pjejvibroke. There were fifty-six French prisoners in an old hou fe adjoining to that in which the Americans were confined. Most of them had no' shoes or stockings, and some were also without shirts. — They had no victualling table, nor did they know what was their allowance. There were two or three who had their allowance in money, which should have been three Shillings and six pence a week each for their aliment, but six pence was deducted. — They lay, in general, on the boards without straw; for there were but four hammocks in two rooms, each of which contained eighteen prisoners. Here was a court, but no water or fewer.

In the two rooms of the town gaol there were twenty French prisoners. They had some straw, but it had not been changed

*could, have wished, that the gentlemen concerned for the American prisoners, Irad extended their regards also to the French, and by their attention and vilira had obliged the con/raffers to be more careful in discharging their duty.

Sect. V. PRISONERS OF WAR. 159

[Pembroke.]

for many weeks. Having no supply of water in the gaol, and not being permitted, as they are at the other prison, to fetch water for themselves, they are often neglected. On Sunday at noon, no water had been brought to them from Friday evening. — They walked in a field, with a guard, about an hour every day. — Their bread was tolerable, but their beer very small, and their allowance of beef so scanty, that they preferred an allowance of cheese and butter.

---

At a house appropriated for an hospital, there were nine French prisoners, besides five of the crew of the Culloden man of war, and three Americans. These lay in three or four rooms on straw with coverlets, but without sheets, mattresses or bedsteads.

Such observations as these have convinced me, that humanity and good policy require that an inspector of the prisoners of war should be appointed, who should be obliged to report quarterly their state as to health, provisions &c.

[Chester.]

At Chester Castle, Aug. 27, 1779, there were twenty-three French prisoners of war. They were healthy and well, and made no complaint.

[Liverpool.]

---

At Liverpool, Nov. 30, 1779, were five hundred and nine prisoners of war, all French, except fifty-six Spaniards, who were kept separate on account of the animosities between the two nations. These were all confined in four or five rooms crowded with hammocks three tier high; but they had a spacious airing ground. There were thirty-six sick in some small dirty rooms of a house at a distance from the prison. These had no sheets; but great attention seemed to be paid them by the surgeon, and they made no complaints. At the prison the bedding wanted regulation. No table of rules or victualling was hung up, or ever had been. The prisoners rejoiced at the discharge of the late agent; and from the character of the present, have every reason to expect all due attention and humanity. Their meat was fine and good;the beer good;the bread heavy.

Here, as well as at all the other places throughout the kingdom where French prisoners are confined, I found that there was an allowance from the French court of one penny per day to all sailors and boys j two pence to boatswains, carpenters

PEMBROKE.

French

Prison-

Chester.

Liverpool.

ifco

F'CKCS

P*MOH-

Ediw-

IUCH.

Belfast.

Dublin.

160 PRISONERS OF WAR.

[french Prisoners.]

ters See.; and three pence to those of superior rank; which is regularly paid them every month. There is besides a supply from the same court of clothes, linen, and shoes to those who are destitute of these articles: a noble and exemplary provision, much to the honour of those who at present conduct public affairs in France

FRENCH PRISONERS in SCOTLAND.

I found in the Castle at Edinburgh, July 6, 1779* sixty-four French prisoners, in two rooms formerly used as barracks for the soldiers. In one of the rooms they lay on straw, two and two, in boxes against the wall, with two coverlets to each box: in the other room they lay on mattresses in hammocks. — The regulations as to diet &c. were hung up. Their bread was excellent, and all other provisions good; nor was there any thing of which they made complaint. — -They received every month, the allowance from the French court. — There were fourteen in the hospital, which was a house at some distance in the city, where the had bedding and sheets, and great attention was paid them by the humane surgeon and agent.

FRENCH PRISONERS in IRELAND.

On the 13th of July 1779, there were seventy-seven French prisoners at Belfast, who had been brought there the beginning of May. — There was no table of regulations, and they seemed to be much neglected. Sixteen of them were in the hospital, including three attendants. Many others were sick, but in the hospital there was neither room nor accommodations for them.

At Dublin, July 22, 1779, there were twenty-two prisoners of war, in a good room fitted up for a temporary prison. Their bread and other provisions were very good; and they were treated with all the humanity and kindness that could be exposed.

I have since heard that a bounty is paid by the court of England to their prisoners in France, at the following rates, *;*. captains, mates, failing matters, furgeont, and stewards, three pence per day each; common tailors, boys, and passengers of inferior rank, three halfpence per clay each} which payment i* nude every twenty-eight days.

AMERICAN

Sect. V. AMERICAN PRISONERS.

In Mill-prison near Plymouth, there were two hundred and ninety-eight American prisoners on the 3d of February 1779. Their wards and court were spacious and convenient, and their bread, beer, and meat good.

The Americans were equally well accommodated at Forton near Gosport, where I found two hundred and fifty-one prisoners, March 2, 1779.

The table of regulations was almost the same with that for the French prisoners. The principal difference was, that in the victualling table, the bread allowance was then only one pound a day. The meagre day was Saturday; and against the weekly article of two pints of pease, was added, or greens in lieu.” The regulation. Art. 5. is well worth copying. “As water and tubs for washing their linen and cloaths, will be allowed, the prisoners are advised to keep their persons as clean as possible, it being very conducive to health.”

At Pembroke, June 5, 1779, there were confined in an old house thirty-seven American prisoners. Some of them were without shoes and stockir.gs. — There'/as no vi£ualling table, or table of regulations; nor did tbjy know what the allowance ordered by government was, except only that it was the same with the allowance for the French prisoners. — They lay on straw on the floor, and their straw had not been changed for six or seven weeks. — By liberal subscriptions, ample provision has been made for the other American prisoners: I was sorry to find that these had been entirely overlooked.x

In a house appropriated for an hospital, in which were some Englishmen and French prisoners, I found also three American prisoners very poorly accommodated.

I should not omit mentioning thatl found the American prisoners (except at Pembroke) clean and well clothed — the latter, not entirely from the generous supplies they have had from this country, but in conjunction with that from their own; as the Congress had not forgot their suffering brethren on this side the water.

Before I leave this subject, it will be but justiceto mention the care and assiduity of the Commissioners of the sick and wounded seamen &c. in London, who have themselves visited many of the prisons in England, and dismissed such agents as had abused their trust; and who are ready to receive any information which may be for the benefit of those committed to their inspection.

161

Plymouth.

Fortom.

PlM-

lltOKIi

SCOTLAND.

SECTION VI.

SCOTCH and IRISH PRISONS,

IT may not be improper, before I enter on a particular account of English prisons, to mention what further occurred to me that seemed worthy of observation, in a journey into Scotland and Ireland in the summer, 1779.

Scotland.

The prisons which I saw in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Perth, lANP‘ Stirling, Jedburgh, Air, &c. were old buildings, dirty and offensive, without courts, and also generally Without Water. They are hot visited by the magistrates: and the gaolers are allowed the sale of the most pernicious liquors.

If a prisoner for debt declares upon oath that he has not wherewithal to maintain himself, the creditor must aliment him within ten days after notice is given for that purpose, with at least three pence a day*, but generally the magistrates order six-pence. — By the process of cessio bonorum†, a debtor after being a month in prison, may obtain his liberty, and be secured against execution for any previous debts, by making a surrender of all his effects to be divided among his creditors: though if he afterwards comes into better circumstances, his effects may be attached for the payment of those debts. This compassionate law prevents a creditor putting his debtor in prison, unless he has good reason to believe he is acting fraudulently.

Perjury is not frequent in Scotland. The oath, and the form of administering it, are very solemn. The witness,

By *a of king William's first parliament, 1696, sixth session. Chap. XXXII.

f See the Principle*cf tie Law *f Sect land, ‘5th ed. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1777.

p. 462 and 3.

holding

11

Sect. VI. SCOTLAND. 163

holding up his right hand, repeats the following words after the judge: — “By God himself, and as you shall answer to God at the great day of judgment, you shall declare the truth,

“ and nothing but the truth, in so far as you know, or shall be asked at you.” — The depositions are read over by the clerk, and signed by the witnessles and the judge.* — It is enacted by the 20th of George II. that the circuit-courts xc shall be regularly held twice in every year, within that part M of Great Britain called Scotland, and the judges thereof “ shall continue by the space of six days at the least, at each ct town or place where the circuit-courts shall be held, for the dispatch of business.”+

There are in Scotland but few prisoners; which is partly owing to the shame and disgrace annexed to imprisonment; partly to the solemn manner in which oaths are administered, and trials and executions conduced j and partly to the general sobriety of manners produced by the care which parents and ministers take to instruct the riling generation. J

I am indebted to Andrew Crosbie, Esq. for an account, from the clerk of the justiciary, of the executions from January 1768 to July 1779, which shall be inserted in a table at the end of the book; from which it will appear, that in ten years and a half there have been only thirty-nine executed, and eighteen pardoned.

Louthian's Form of Process, Edin. 175a. p. 109.

of This good act is similar to one enacted for the counties of Wales in 34 and 35 of Henry VIII. Cap. XXVI. “ That every of the said sessions shall be kept aijd continued by the space of six days in every of the said shires, at either of the said times, as is and hath been used within the said three shires of North “ Wales.*'

% It is provided by statute in the sixth session of king William's first parliament, 1696, Chap. XXVI. <* That there be a school settled and established, and, a schoolmaster appointed in every parish” in Scotland, and the presbytery has the faperintendance of the execution of this act, which has been carefully attended to Many schools are also settled by donations and legacies, and by the society for propagating christian knowledge; so that parish is without a school, and in some there are four or five. In the southern parts of Scotland, it is very rare that you meet with any person that cannot both read and write. It is scandalous for any person not to be possessed of a Bible, which is always read in the parochial schools.

164

SCOTLAND.

rf

i:

Epin- VKCH. 1 In Scotland, executions are not delayed after convicton or sentence; a delay which is often equally injurious to the criminal and to society. Here, the punishment of the offender is made to appear the immediate consequence of his crime.* All criminals are tried out of irons; and when acquitted, they are immediately discharged in open court. In the Tolbooth at Edinburgh^ July 6, 1779, there were thirteen debtors and nine felons; and in the Canongate Tolbooth, By the act made In king William's first session, 1695, Chap. IV. all capital crimes are rest rifted to the trial and sentence within three fans; and the “ Execution, which is hereby left to the discretion of the judge, not exceeding nine days after sentence.” f I here give the table of fees from the Tolbooth in this city, which is the only one I saw in the prisons in Scotland. t of council regulating the fees payable to the jailor and clerk of the Tolbooth of Edinburgh. — Edinburgh, seventeenth July, seventeen hundred and twenty-eight. The which day the lord provost, bailies, council, deacons of crafts, ordinary and extraordinary, being convened in council, and taking into consideration the present state of their Tolbooth, and particularly the fees that have been in use to be exacted by the jailor and clerk of the said prison, both from creditors at incarceration of prisoners, and from the debitor or person himself Imprisoned; and judging it highly reasonable, that these fees should for the future be publicly ascertained by authority of the council for the benefit of all concerned j therefore the council do tax and settle the same as follows, vm. Fsts payable to the Jailox. The incarcerator of any debitor for any sum of money shall pay at incarceration one halfpenny sterling for each pound and another halfpenny ilerling of each pound to be paid by the debitor at his liberation} and this in place of one penny sterling of each pound Scusin use to be paid by creditors at incarceration, and of the like sum of one penny sterling of each pound Scots, usually paid by the debitor at liberation as relief money. Scat. £. S. D. Itom, Each person imprisoned for a civil debt or otherwise not being a buigef*, dull pay to the jailor of house dues each night attour what U above - 06S Item, Each buigefs imprisoned for a civil debt or otherwise, shall pay also to the jailor of house dues each night attour what is above 034 Item, '1 he incaueiator of any person or persons by the lord's letters of labuiio\v* dull pax at incarceration - 300 Item, 1 lie Incarx crater of any person or persons on laburrows by a tna- glftiatr, fhcrirt, cm justice ot peace, lltall pay at incarceration X 109Item, The incaiccrater of any person for exhibition of papers or for Implementing of writs (options fx'r reproduction of processes before the Interior courts excepted; Cull pay incarceration - 1 10 0 Tbs

Sect. VI. SCOTLAND.

booth, there were five debtors and one felon: and in the house of correction there were fifty-three women, crowded into dirty

and offensive rooms.

The council ordains and declares when any gentleman or other person shall be incarcerate In the Tolbooth, and shall desire to have a room in the prison by him or herself, such persons shall be liable for the conveniency of such room to pay to the jailor ten shillings sterling weekly in place of prison fees, or such as they and the jailor shall agree, but not to exceed ten shillings.

That all prisoners shall be liable to pay the under-keepers, and the woman who cleans the house, as prisoners were in use to do before the act of council the 17th day of July 17*8 j but if any dispute shall arise thereanent, the magistrates for the time being shall have the full power of determining the fame.

Fees payable to the Clerk of the Tolbooth.

Imprimis, Each person incarcerate upon any laburrows, shall at his liberation pay - 0

Item, Each person incarcerate by warrant from the magistrates, shall at his liberation pay - 0

Item, Each person incarcerate by warrant from sheriff or justice of the peace, shall at liberation pay o

Item, All government prisoners shall pay each at liberation - 2

Item, For each petition by a prisoner for the benefit of the act of grace, and for the clerk's declaration thereto subjoined shall be paid o

Item, For the borrowing or delivery up of any deligence by which prisoners are incarcerate (all magistrates warrants at or within ten mercks excepted) shall be paid - 0

Item, All persons incarcerated or arrested for a sum or sums at or below £120 Scots,shall pay to the clerk at liberation four pennies for each

pound Scots j and for sums above £120 Scots, shall pay at liberation to, the clerk two pound Scots and no more.

Item, All persons incarcerate for exhibition of papers, or for implementing of writs (captions forreproduftion of processes before the inferior courts excepted) shall pay to the clerk at liberation j

Item, All creditors or incarcerators of prisoners for civil debt or otherwise shall be , free of all fees to the clerk at incarceration.

And the council statues and declares, that if any fees shall be demanded or ex-acted in time coming, by the jailor or clerk of their Tolbooth, other than these above set down, they shall incur the deprivation of their respective offices; and ordain their presents to be printed and published, that none may pretend ignorance.

And the council hereby ordains James Cleland principal jailor and his successors in office, to,affix a copy hereof in the Tolbooth-hall, and in his own office, under the penalty of £5 Scots, toties queues,

Extracted (signed) George Home.

Edinburgh, the sixth day of July, seventeen hundred and seventy-nine years. These do certify by me William Gilles clerk to the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, that the above is a true and exact copy of the act of council of the city of Edinburgh, by which the keeper of the said Tolbooth and me as clerk '.hereof arc governed.

Cities.

Scots. 12 o

6 o

12 o

o o

6 o 4 o

10 o

165

Edinburgh.

IRELAND.

166 Glasgow.

Dublin.

In the Tolbooth at Glasgow, July 9, 1779, there were thirteen debtors and seven felons; and in the house seventeen women were spinning, decently clothed.

I did not find above four or five prisoners in any of the other prisons which I visited, either in this or my former tour.

IRELAND.

I was happy in finding at Dublin a new gaol (Newgate) almost ready for the removal of the prisoners into more airy and convenient apartments, in which the shocking intercourse of the two sexes which took place in the old prison, will be avoided. This new prison is one hundred and seventy feet in length, and has separate courts for men and women. The cells on the first and second floors are about twelve feet by eight, and on the upper floor twelve by four, all arched with brick, to prevent danger from fire.* I chuse to say nothing of the under-ground dungeons, for I hope they will never be used. It might be best to convert the chapel at the top of the house into an infirmary; for the sick rooms are too small, and likely to produce infection.

In the men's court there is a pump which supplies good water, and I suppose the women's court will be provided with another. Great attention should be paid to air and cleanliness in the staircases, and the narrow passages f leading to the cells, to prevent them from becoming offensive and infectious.lf The criminals in the gaols of Ireland are very numerous; one reason of which may be, that in this country there are no houses of correction; § and another, that acquitted persons are

It would have been much better if the same precaution had been uied in another Newgate.

+ They are three feet and a half wide, and the (laircafcs only two feet one inch.

% 1 well remember the dreadful (late of Dublin Newgate in the beginning of the year 1775; when I saw numbers of poor creatures ill with the gaol

unattended and disregarded.

It may he an exception, that in a house adjoining to Newgate there were era! finei &c. and in another finall house adjoining to the work-house in Dublin,

1 found

Sect. VI. IRELAND.

continued in confinement till they have discharged their fees to the clerk of the crown, or peace, the sheriff, gaoler and turnkey. *Even boys almost naked, and under the age of twelve, are sometimes confined two years for these fees, though amounting to no more than about forty shillings. How surprising is it, that any kingdom can endure such injustice ! It is a particular aggravation of it, that the prisoners thus confined generally lose, at the same time, their allowance of bread. I have heard that Mr. Justice Alton always ordered the acquitted prisoners to be discharged. — Some boys were lately released from the county gaol at Kilmainham, paying half fees; and others from Newgate, the sheriffs of Dublin generously relinquishing their fees. But as those boys had been associated with the most profligate and abandoned felons for many months, I did not in the least wonder to find that some of them returned to their former habitation in a few days.

On passing this prison frequently, I could not avoid observing officers from the recruiting regiments waiting at the doors and windows, to receive either the offenders who were permitted to enlist, or any of their associates. When the cx-cessive profligacy and daring wickedness of this set of people is considered, the most melancholy apprehensions must be entertained, of the dreadful consequences likely to result from their mixture with those who may have had a sober education, and have entered voluntarily into the service of their country; and likewise of the danger to society in general, from turning loose such a set of wretches at the close of a war.

I found eleven young creatures, who for small offences were confined with outrageous lunatics of both sexes. The magistrates seem to have overlooked a compassionate clause of their legislature the 3d of George III. Chap. XXVIII. “ that “ persons of insane mind and outrageous behaviour” are not to go in common With the other prisoners.

There is an act for discharging without fees, persons who shall be acquitted of offences for which they arc or shall be indicted, and for making a compensation to sheriffs, gaolers, clerks of the crown, and clerks of the peace, for such “fees,” by a prdencment on the respective counties. Hut many that are acquitted receive no benefit by it, because the presentment must be made by the foreman of the petty jury to the grand jury, and confirmed by the judges of assize; and also the sum presented at one assize must not exceed “ ten pounds if it te a county at large} or five pounds, if it be a county of a city or county of a “ town.” 3d George III. Chap. V. p. 100, ioi,

167

Dublin.

168 DcftLIII.

r v

IRELAND,

Our English prisons have also contributed their share towards recruiting the army, enlisting being the condition on which many have obtained their release from confinement, or immunity from some other punishment. I shall make no farther remark on this practice, but that if it be a necessary one, the legislature may receive some satisfaction from the effects of their late salutary laws respecting” the health of prisoners. If this mode had been adopted while prisons were in their former state, it would have been the occasion of carrying the most fatal diseases into the midst of our seamen and soldiers.

There is a new Marshalsea prison in Dublin. The first stone was laid, as appears by the inscription, July 3, 1775. Here were about sixty prisoners. — In the city Marshalsea, which is a very old building, there were fifty-five debtors. Many debtors in this and the other prisons, being not alimented, are objects of compassion. But the most needy of them are relieved by the care of a humane society at Dublin, similar to that called the Thatched-House Society in London. — Such societies deserve the highest praise. I wish however to recommend to companion other prisoners (whose miseries have been long hid from the eyes of the public) who, though they seem to deserve assistance less, yet need it more, to save them from the ruin to which the bad state of the Irish prisons exposes them.

I am sorry to mention the common and pernicious use of spirituous liquors in the Irish prisons. — In Newgate, and in the county gaols that I visited, there were no tables of fees hung up.

There is an Irish act for preserving the health of prisoners, passed in the 17th and 18th of George III. Chap. XXVIII. similar to the English aft* for the same purpose. But I did

This differs from the English act in one important circumstance. The English act requires “ the walls and ceilings of the several cells and wards, both " of the debtors and the felons, and also of any other rooms used by the prisoners “ In their respective gaols and prisons, are usually confined, to be

" feraped and white-washed, once in the year at Least, to be regularly waited " and kept clean," &c. whereas the Irish act requires the same precautions in the cells, wards, and rooms of gaols and prisons without refiriffion, for the cUvilc *' -where fAunt art ufvJly confined" is omitted. I have known it pleaded as an cxoif'c !r not white-washing and keeping clean prisons in England where only drht,r» or petty offenders have been confined, that they were not obliged

it l>) the act of parliament.

169

Sect. VII. ENGLISH PRISONS.

not find it “ hung up ” in any of the prisons. — There is also an act of the same year, similar to the English act, for the punishment, by hard labour, of offenders who, for certain crimes, are or shall become liable to be transported.” But the hulks on the Thames having cruelly destroyed many healthy and robust young men, their cries probably reached the Irish shore, and prevented any proceedings in consequence of that ad.

SECTION VII.

A PARTICULAR ACCOUNT OF ENGLISH PRISONS.

AS the Tables of which the present Section will chiefly consist, contain several terms which cannot be familiar to the generality of my readers, I shall begin with an explanation of them.

In the first page of every county, city &c. the second article of the gaoler or keeper's emolument is fees j by which are meant such only as are taken by him and his servants on the admission or discharge of a prisoner. The sums set down against this article are from the best information I could procure in my repeated journeys; but they differ sometimes from those specified in the tables of fees.

The next article under gaoler is transports. The sum set down to this, is what (from the best intelligence I could gain) I found was allowed them for conveying convicts sentenced to transportation to the respective sea-ports \ and for paying the merchant or contrador what he was supposed to demand for

ENGLISH PRISONS. 170

their passage: although by the Oatutes 4th George I. and 8th of his present Majesty, it is enacted that “ The person or persons so contracting — shall have a property and interest in “ the service of the said offenders for such terms of years.”

With respect to the following article, , I shall just ob-

serve that in some few places, as at Worcester, Exeter, &c. the gaoler has no licence, and yet is permitted, by connivance, to fell beer to the prisoners, and their visitors. In these cases I have made no distinction;though it is indeed some check against using the gaol as a common public house.

Under prisoners in the same page, the number which I found in the respective county gaol on my different visits is distinguished into debtors and felons The &c. is meant to

include two kinds of prisoners chiefly;fines and petty offenders. By fines are understood such as are detained till they pay a sum of money, a fine: — such as are obliged to find security for good behaviour: — and such as are committed for a limited term to mere confinement, or (which is much the fame) to hard labour. Of these latter many have been previously whipped, or burnt in the hand. Petty offenders are such as are sent to gaols instead of bridewells, for reasons mentioned in a former section. These also in some gaols arc called fines. Besides these there are sometimes a few deserters.

Wherever there were tables of fees> I thought myself obliged to give exact and literal copies of them: I am not therefore answerable for the improprieties of expression, or defects of form to be found in some of them: but to prevent tiresome and useless repetitions, I have abridged the formalities of preamble and conclusion. For the same reason, I have used the same liberty, with regard to the rules and orders of those few prisons that have such;as I have done likewise by the lifis of -

tions and legacies. Where no mention is made of rules &c. it may be concluded, there are none hung up in that prison. Where there is no table of fees, I commonly note the defect.*

It should be observed, that by the statute George II. if any gaoler, or keeper, demand fees not fee down in a table figr.ed by the justices, and afterward* confirmed by the judge or judges of assize, and justices, and hung up conspicuoua in the prison; such demand is illegal, and the offender is liable to a penalty of fifty pounds to the person injured,

Sect.VII. ENGLISH PRISONS.

171

I have described no prison but from my own examination at the several dates set down before the number of prisoners. I entered every room, cell, and dungeon with a memorandum-book in my hand, in which I noted particulars upon the spot. My descriptions will to some readers appear too minute;but I chose rather to relate circumstances, than to characterize in general terms. By these, the legislature will be better acquainted with the real state of gaols; and magistrates will be able to judge whether the prisons over which they preside, and to which they commit offenders, be fit for the purposes they are designed to answer. I might add, that a variety of descriptions may possibly suggest something useful in the plans of such prisons as may hereafter be erected j since whatever may appear worth copying may be extracted from any.

I have here and there taken the liberty of pointing out what seemed to me, as I viewed a prison,' an obvious remedy of some defect that happened to strike me. But I did not examine with the accuracy of a surveyor; and hope I shall not be thought to direct in the style of a diflator.

As in my former edition, I mentioned, that the state of our prisons was so much altered for the better, that an idea could scarcely be formed of the condition they had been in a few years ago; so I have now the additional satisfaction to remark, that the humanity and attention of the magistrates in various counties, has enabled me in this edition to erase many notes of censure respecting the management of gaols as to cleanliness, aliment, bedding, and the like, which I thought it my duty before to insert.

LONDON.

nr

I

lft

LONDON.

THE TOWER.

Tow*. This is a strong fortress, and the only prison in England for state delinquents of rank. The care of it is committed to an officer called the Constable of the Tower, who has under him a lieutenant, deputy-lieutenant called the , and

many other officers, among whom are forty , whose

uniform is the same with the king's yeomen of the guards. Nineteen of these warders have separate houses well furnished, in any of which, as the governor is pleased to order, the state delinquents may be confined; and the custom has been to assign them two of the best rooms on the first floor. Sometimes they are committed to close confinement; but in general they are at liberty to walk in the area of the tower, attended always with a warder.

There have been no prisoners here for a few years past; and when there are any, their fate is soon determined by a legal trial, and consequently their confinement can never be long. Six shillings and eight pence a day is allowed by government for their subsistence, but they seldom accept this allowance.

In this fortress, besides the houses just mentioned, there are several public offices and store-houses;such, particularly, as the office of Ordnance, the Jewel-office, the Mint, and buildings for holding artillery and arms.

NEW-

X E 1

7C

LONDON.

*73

NEWGATE.

GAOLER, Richard Akerman.

Salary, £200.

Fees,' Debtors, 8: io.

Felons, o: 18: 10.

Misdemeanours or Fines, o: 14: 10.

Transports, o: 14: 10.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 7 ,

Felons \ a Penny *oa* a da7* (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors, ^0: 5: 6.

Felons &c. 0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons tec.Debtors. Felons

1775, March 5, 33, 190. 1776, Dec. 26, 33, 152.

1776, --- 1, 38, 129. 1779, Aug. 16, 51, 141.

-- May 17, 46, 212.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. VilUtte.

Duty, Sunday twice j every day prayers;

once a month sacrament.

Salary, j£35> &c- (SeeRemarks.)

SURGEON, Mr. Olney.

Salary, £50, for all prisoners.

THE builders of Old Newgate seem to have regarded in Rkmaxks. their plan, nothing but thd single article of keeping prisoners in safe custody. The rooms and cells were so close, as to be almost the constant feats of disease, and sources of infection;to the destruction of multitudes, not only in the prison, but abroad. The city had therefore very good reason for their resolution to build a new gaol. The plate will give a better idea of it than any description. I give the plan, rather to satisfy the curiosity of my readers, than as a model to be followed. Many inconveniences of the old gaol are avoided in this new one: but it has some manifest errors. It is now too late to point out particulars. All I will say, is, that without

Newgate.

LONDON.

m

Newgate.

more than ordinary care, the prisoners in it will be in great danger of the gaol fever.

The cells built in Old Newgate a few years since for condemned malefa&ors, are intended for the same use at present.

I shall therefore give some account of them. There are upon each of the three floors five;all vaulted, near nine feet high to the crown. Those on the ground floor measure full nine feet by near fix;the five on the first story are a little larger, on account of the set-off in the wall; and the five uppermost. Hill a little larger for the same reason. In the upper part of each cell, is a window double grated, near three feet by one and a half. The doors are four inches thick. The strong ' (lone wall is lined all round each cell with planks, studded

with broad-headed nails. In each cell is a barrack bedstead.

I was told by those who attended me, that criminals who had affected an air of boldness during their trial, and appeared quite unconcerned at the pronouncing sentence upon them, were (truck with horror, and (hed tears, when brought to these dark-some solitary abodes.

The? new chapel is plain and neat. Below are three or four'pews for men-felons &c. On each side is a gallery: that towards the women's ward is for them: in it is a pew for the keeper, whose presence may set a good example, and be otherwise useful. The other gallery towards the debtors ward is for them. The stairs to each gallery are on the outside of the chapel. I went twice to prayers there. Mr. Villette read them distin<Stly, and with propriety: the few prisoners who were present, seemed attentive; but we were disturbed by the noise in the court. Surely they who will not go to chapel, who are by far the greater number, should be locked up in their rpoms during the time of divine service, and not suffered to hinder the edification of such as are better disposed.

The chaplain (or ordinary) besides his salary, has a house in Newgate-street, clear of land-tax; two freedoms yearly, which commonly fell for £25 each;lady Barnadifton's legacy, £6 a year; an old legacy paid by the governors of St. Bartholomew's hospital, £10 a year; the city generally presents him once in six months with another freedom. He engages when chosen to hold no other living.

LONDON. 175

Debtors have every Saturday from the chamber of London eight stone of beef: fines four stone: and some years felons eight stone. Debtors have several legacies. I inquired for a list of them, and Mr. Akerman told me the table in Maitland's Survey was authentic. The amount of it is £52: 5: 8a year. There are other donations mentioned by Maitland, amounting to sixty-four stone of beef, and five dozen of bread.

To these he adds the donation of “ Robert Dow, who left £1: 6: 8 yearly for ever to the sexton or bellman of St. Sepulchre's, to pronounce solemnly two exhortations to the persons condemned, the night before their execution j in these words

You prisoners who are within Who for wickedness and fin, after many mercies shewn you, are now appointed to die tomorrow in the forenoon, give ear and understand that tomorrow morning the greatest bell of St. Sepulchre's shall toll for you in form and manner of a passing bell as used to be tolled for those that are at the point of death, to the end that all godly people may pray See. &c.”*

At my last visit, every part of the gaol was clean, and free from offensive feents. On the felons side, there were only three sick, in one of the upper wards. — An infirmary was building near the condemned cells. — Of the 141 felons there were 91 convicts and fines, who had only the prison allowance of a penny loaf a day: Mr. Akerman generously contributes towards their relief: he was so good as to copy for me a table of all the executions for London and Middlesex during eight years past j which I shall give at the end of the book. In the felons court, the table of fees painted on a board was hung up.

Maitland's History of London, vol, I. p, 26. edit, 1760.

TABLE

Newgate.

LONDON.

Newgate.

TABLE OF FEES.

Londonfc. A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of Newgate within the said City of London for any Prisoner or Prisoners committed or coming into Gaol or Chamber-Rent there or discharge from thence in any Civil A3 ionfettled and established the nineteenth day of December in the third year of the reign of his Majesty King George the Second Domini

1729 pursuant to an Act of Parliament lately made intituled An Act for the Relief of Debtors with respect to the Imprisonment of their Persons.

S.

Every prisoner on the mailer-side shall pay to the keeper for his

entrance fee - 030

Every prisoner on the mailer-side shall pay for chamber-room use of bed bedding and (heets to the keeper there being two in a bed and no more each per week - 013

Every prisoner on the said ma(ler-side who at his own desire shall have a bed to himself, shall pay to the keeper for chamber-room use of bed bedding and (heets per week - 0 a 6

Every debtor shall pay to the keeper for his discharging fee - o 6 10

And to all the turnkeys two shillings and no more - 0*0

No other fee for the use of chamber bed bedding or (heets or upon the commitments or discharge of any prisoner on any civil action

EdvA Becher Robt Al/op In* Barnard

Robt Raymond R. Eyre

Tho* Pincelly

Mr. Akerman shewed me another table of fees, which was given him for his direction when he commenced keeper. It is as follows:

Fees to be taken by the Keeper of Newgate.

For every debtor's discharge -

For every felon's discharge -

For every misdemeanour

Every debtor's entrance on the mailer's side

Every felon's entrance on the master's side -

Every person admitted into the press-yard For every transport's discharge -

For every bailable warrant -

R. IV, R. L. W, B. S. P.

1

£. S. D. o 8 10 o 18 10 o 14 10 030 o 10 6 3 3 0

o 14 so

3 6 8

HIS

LONDON.

177

HIS MAJESTY'S PRISON THE FLEET, for debtors.

WARDEN, John Eyles, Esq.

Deputy Warden and Clerk of the Papers,

Daniel Hopkins, now William

Salary

Fees, £1: 6: 8 - on entrance, account

o: 2: 0 Turnkey, 3 from the prisoners. Licence, Beer and Wine to John , now — ,

who holds of the warden on lease the tap &c. (See Remarks.)

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0: 2: 0.

Number, In the House. 1774, April 26, 171,

1776, -- 2, 241,

1779, Aug. 13, 147,

In the Rules.

7!.

- 78.

37-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Horner.

Duty, Sunday twice; Wednesday prayers.

Salary

SURGEON, None.

TO this prison were committed formerly those who incurred the displeasure of the Star-chamber. In the 16th of Charles I. when that court was abolidled, it became a prison for debtors; and for persons charged with contempts of the courts of chancery, exchequer, and common pleas.

In 1728, many abuses practised by the warden were the subject of parliamentary inquiry.

The prison was rebuilt a few years since. At the front is a narrow court. At each end of the building, there is a small projection, or wing. There are four floors, they call them galleries, beddes the cellar-floor, called Bartholomew-Fair. Each gallery consists of a passage in the middle, the whole

N length

FlXST.

Rxmabks,

LONDON.

Fleet. length of the prison, 66 yards; and rooms on each side of it about 14* feet by 12^, and 9^ high. A chimney and window in every room. The passages are narrow (not seven feet wide) and darkish, having only a window at each end. On the first floor, the hall-gallery, to which you ascend by eight steps, are, a chapel, a tap-room, — a coffee-room (lately made out of two rooms for debtors), a room for the turnkey, another for the watchman, and eighteen rooms for prisoners. Besides the coffee-room and tap-room, two of those eighteen rooms, and all the cellar floor, except a lock-up room to confine the disorderly, and another room for the turnkey, were held by the tapster, John Cartwright, who bought the remainder of the lease at public auction in 1775. The cellar floor is sixteen steps below the hall-gajlery. It consists of the two rooms just now mentioned, the tapster's kitchen, his four large beer and wine cellars, and fifteen rooms for prisoners. These fifteen, and the two before-mentioned on the hall-gallery, the tapster lets to prisoners foi from four to eight shillings a week.*

On the first gallery (that next above the hall-gallery) are twenty-five rooms for prisoners. On the twenty-

seven: one of them, fronting the staircase, is their committee-room. A room at one end is an infirmary. At the other end, in a large room over the chapel, is a dirty billiard-table;kept by the prisoner who deeps in that room. On the highest story are twenty-seven rooms. Some of these upper rooms, m. those in the wings, are larger than the rest; being over the chapel, the tap-room &c. All the rooms I have mentioned are for master's-side debtors. The weekly rent of those not held by the tapster is is. 3 dunfurnished. They fall to the prisoners in succession, thus: when a room becomes vacant, the first prisoner upon the list of such as have paid their entrance-fees, takes possedion of it. When the prison was built, the warden gave each prisoner his choice of a room according to his seniority as prisoner. If all of them be occupied, a new comer must hire of feme tenant a part of his room; or (hist as he can. Prisoners are excluded from all right of succession to the rooms held by the tapster, and let at the high rents aforr-

An imposition of the same kind is noted in the Report of the Gaol, ^mnutccc, 1728,

said.

LONDON.

said. The apartments for common-side debtors are only part Fim, of the right wing of the prison. Besides the cellar (which was intended for their kitchen, but is occupied with lumber, and shut up) there are four floors. On each floor is a room about 24 or 25 feet square, with a fire-place; and on the sides, seven closets or cabins to sleep in Such of these prisoners as swear in court or before a commissioner that they arc not worth five pounds, and cannot subsist without charity (of them there were at one of my visits sixteen, at other times not so many) have the donations which are sent to the prison, the begging-box and the grate.

I have in the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons 1728, a table of some charities: but I saw no such table in the prison.

There is plenty of water from the river and pumps; and a spacious court behind the prison.

I mentioned the billiard-table. They also play in the court at (kittles, miflifippi, fives, tennis &c. And not only the prisoners: I saw among them several butchers and others from the market; who are admitted here as at another public house.. The fame may be seen in many other prisons where the gaoler keeps or lets the tap. Besides the inconvenience of this to prisoners j the frequenting a prison lessens the dread of being confined in one. On Monday night there was a*wine-club: on Thursday night a beer-club: each lading usually till one or two in the morning. I need not say how much riot these occasion j and how the sober prisoners, and those that are sick, are annoyed by them.

Seeing the prison crowded with women and children, I pro-

cured an accurate list of them; and found that on (or about) the 6th of April 1776, when there were on the master's-side.

213 prisoners, on the common-side 30, total 243;their wives (including women of an appellation not so honourable) and children were 475.

I was surprised to fee in this prison, a table of fees containing only those of the clerks of the papers and inquiries j and that the date of it was 1727, i. e. before the Committee of the House of Commons made their inquiry. I did not doubt but another table was settled after that inquiry j and that it contained

LONDON.

ti r. f i trr warden's fees also. But upon asking the clerk of tie hirers for a later table, I was referred to that which hung

ur» It is as to.lews.

A TiSir of Fees to be taken by the Clerk of the Papers and by ire Clerk of the Inquiries of the Fleet Prison pursuant to the Refrlarion of the Honourable X X of the Court of Common Plaxs in tie Eider and Trinity Terms 13th George I. 1727.

liiOLCTIOX

iJz. Trat Is due and ought to be paid to the clerk of the

pjpe-s for every discharge of every ad ion - 0 a 6

Arc ;jr rhr copy of every cause not exceeding three - 010

A*: r each and every cause exceeding three causes - 004

Err: es the li a piece for each of the said first three causes 7*at there is doe and ought to be paid to the clerk of the pipers for his certificate of the prisoner's discharge delivered to the p.- rrer himself without any regard to the number of causes he rice-ci chirped with - 0 a 6

Ard fcr his certificate to the warden of such discharge 0*6

f: h. That there is doe and ought to be paid to the clerk of the inquiries cn the discharge of a prisoner by the creditor and not by

<if<» ;.iixt - o a 6

24: ', The: there is a fee of 5 lh 4<1 due to the clerk of the papers for the allowance of every writ of l-jctatterfus and th for the return of the first cause *ad a fh for every ocher cause and no more.

There is in the prison a table rules or orders. They were at very diitrmt times, from the reign of queen Elizabeth, tv> the cite they bear; and some of them partly coincide with others: those which do so I have put together to avoid repe-and have presumed to abridge the whole.

HILARY 5d GEORGE II. 1729.

*» 2. 5. Warden or deputy to appoint turnkeys Sec. with arms: to persons bringing arms, and watch if an escape be in agitation. 4' " -dre to oiilribute charity-money. He, or his agent, to keep key of dir box; and the prisoners another.

>*2* 1: ' a made: -tide debtor shall neglect for three months to FwV k: $ chamber-rent; the warden may, not lock him up, bit, rresovr kina to the common-Cde; delivering to him his goods by* '.J.'c.ud inventory. After discharge, if legal dues be still he may be detained in the common-ward: the door of

LONDON. 181

Fleet,

which is never to be (hut but at night (dimmer at ten, winter at nine): and then a watchman must attend to open it for those who must go to the yard &c.

7. Such as attempt to escape, or greatly misbehave, may be shut up in a close room or dungeon.

N. B. It was reported to the four judges whose names are here subscribed, and who made inquiry concerning it, to be “ boarded wholesome and dry.”

8. 18. Warden to repair the whole house, chapel, drains &c. and keep all clean. To take care that divine service be duly performed, and the sacraments administered. Prisoners to attend.

9. Against clandestine Fleet-marriages.

10. Those who blaspheme, curse, swear, or are disorderly, to be set in the (locks.

11. 13. Warden or deputy to dispose of the chambers, and tap: and fee that good order be observed in the public rooms Sec.

14. Warden to take effectual care that no prisoner be carried to a (ponging-house; and that no garnish be demanded from a new comer.

15. Warden to cause a table of gifts written in a fair

and legible hand, to be hung up in the hall. And to fee that no prisoner be defrauded of his share. None of the servants to partake or distribute.

16. Every prisoner not worth five pounds &c. (As before in remarks.)

17. Two rooms to be an infirmary for common-fide debtors. No prisoner obliged to deep with one that is diseased.

19. Coroner's inquest upon the dead: and corpse to be delivered to the friends, free of coll.

20. Warden not to remove a prisoner to the King's Bench by habeas corpus.

21. 22, 23, 24, 25, 26. Warden to keep books, and regider commitments, courts from whence, declarations, discharges, writs of habeas corpus. Tipstaff and judge's clerk to keep each a separate book of prisoners delivered up at a judge's chamber.

27. All those books, except the tipdaffs, to be kept in the public office of the clerk of the papers; accessible to all persons for copying Sec.

28. No clerk, officer, or servant of any judge to take a fee on occasion of a petition or complaint, founded upon the foregoing orders, or any misgovernment.

29. That the warden and his officers do treat the several prisoners in his custody with all tenderness and humanity: and that such prisoneri

Fleet,

Nfut Lu DC ate.

Rimarks,

LONDON.

Toners do behave themselves toward the warden with that submission and regard which the law requires.

R. Eyre 1 T Alex. Denton

Robt Price 3 I J. Fortescue a

There is, moreover, a little code of laws, eighteen in number, enacted by the mailer's-side debtors, and printed by D. Jones 1774. It establishes a president, a secretary, and a committee, which is to be chosen every month, and to confilt of three members from each gallery. These are to meet in the committee-room every Thursday: and at other times when summoned by the cryer, at command of the president, or of a majority of their own number. They are to raise contributions by assess'ment: to hear complaints: determine disputes: levy fines; and seize goods for payment. Their sense to be deemed the sense of the whole house. The president or secretary to hold the calli;the committee to dispose of it. Their scavenger to wafii the galleries once a week} to water and sweep them every morning before eight; to sweep the yard twice every week j and to light the lamps all over the house. No person to throw out water &c. any where but at the finks in the yard. The cryer may take of a stranger a penny for calling a prisoner to him j and of a complainant two pence for summoning a special committee. For blasphemy, swearing, riot, drunkenness Sec. the committee to fine at discretion: for damaging a lamp, fine a shilling. They are to take from a new comer, on the first Sunday, besides the two shillings garnish to be

spent in wine, one shilling and six pence to be appropriated to the use of the house.

Common-side prisoners to he confined to their , and

not to associate with these law-makers, nor to use the same conveniences.

NEW LUDGATE,

IN BISHOPGATE-STREET.

This prison for debtors who are free of the city, for clergymen, proctors and attorneys, was formerly a bridewell to the London work-house adjoining.

On

LONDON.

On the ground door are, a long-room, a tap-room, and a kitchen. In each of them is a staircase; leading first to eleven rooms for master-side debtors — viz. over the long-room, a sizeable chamber, and a room on each of the two floors above: pver the tap-room, four small rooms, which have iron bars at the windows, and a larger room above them: over the kitchen, a sizeable chamber, and two rooms above. The common-side debtors are in two large garrets, the Forest and Dock. The prison is out of repair. No regard has been paid to the act, which enjoins white-washing &c. A small court, with a cistern for river-water. No infirmary. The chapel is common to the prison and work-house. Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Henry Foulkes.

The city allowance is ten stone of beef a week: to which has been added since the 9th of February 1776, a penny loaf a day for each prisoner. The lord mayor and sheriffs fend annually coals: and Messrs. Calvert and Co. formerly sent from the Peacock brewhouse weekly a generous donation of two barrels of small beer. Keeper's salary, £70: fees, fee table. He lives distant j but the deputy is constant and careful In his attendance^ and respected by the prisoners.

I found the prison very clean. The tap is shut at ten every night. On Sunday, a board is placed at the gate, on which is painted, “ No admittance from 10 o'clock to 12, nor from 2 to 4.”

1774, April 27, Prisoners 29. 1776, Dec. 26, Prisoners 13.

1776, March 7, — 31. 1779, Aug. 12, — 15.

— - May 15, — 29.

A TABLE. OF FEES

To be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty's Prison of Ludcate.

C S.D.

Every prisoner shall pay at his or her coming in - 010

Every prisoner shall pay for chamber-room, bed bedding and sheets, in the best side called the master-side, being two in a bed, each per week - 013

Every prisoner on the second lodging called the common-fide, shall pay for use of chamber-rent, bed, bedding, and (hsets, two in a bed and no more, each per night - 0 o x'

N 4 Every

183

New Ludgate.

LONDON.

184

New Ludgate.

I? very prisoner who at his own desire shall have a bed to himself in an y of the best rooms called the master-side shall pay for bed bedding and (heets per week - 016

Every prisoner who at his own desire has a bed to himself in the second lodging or common-side, shall pay for chamber-room, bed, bedding, and (heets per night - 0 o j

Every prisoner in the meanest ward, who at his own desire hath a bed to himself shall pay for the use of bedding &c. per night - 00*

Every prisoner in the meanest ward, two in a bed and no more, for the

use of bed bedding &c. per night - 001

If the prisoners find their own bedding (which the keeper shall in no wife hinder) then they shall pay for chamber-room if more beds than one in a room, each per week - 003

If the prisoner hath a room to himself, and provide himself with bed and bedding, which the keeper is in no fort to hinder him of, then he shall pay for chamber-room per week - 004

The prisoners inability to find a couch and to pay per week -

The forementioned were signed Febr 23. 1729 by

Aldermen

Becker Raymond

Alsop Eyre

Barnard Pengelly

To the keepers for hatch-fee at discharge - 020

To the turnkey for ditto - 010

The date (hews that these fees were adapted to the old prison, and its sundry wards.

ORDERED

Whosoever on the Sabbath-day shall be absent from chapel either at morning or evening service which ever may happen, unless sickness, lameness or some other reasonable excuse be made appear sufficiently satisfactory, shall pay a fine of four-pence into the hands of the steward for the time being, for every such omission; and in failure thereof not to be admitted to any share of the allowance or transient benefactions, which the following week may produce.

N. B. Whoever is not in chapel before the second lefibn is ended, is forfeited as above.

X

Signed

James Esdale.

a LIST

LONDON. j8j

A LIST OF BENEFACTORS.Nl»

Ludcati,

To the PRISON of LUDGATE.

£. S. D. £. S. D.

Sir Thomas Gresham - 20 0 0 Mr. Peter Blundell - 4 0 0

Sir Roger Martin - 2 0 0 Mr. John Bennet - X 0 0

Sir John Peachy - 0 s 0 Mrs. Holligrave, Widow - 0 5 0

Sir Thomas Kneesworth X 0 0 Mr. Robert Rogers - X 0 0

Mr. James Smith - 0 s 4 Mr. Hugh Offley - 0 5 0

Mr. John Draper - 0 *3 4 Mrs. Joan Sanbeck - I 0 0

Sir William Home - 0 5 0 Mr. John Symmonds - 0 4 0

Mr. Robert Ferebrace 0 6 8 Mr. John Marth - 0 5 0

Lady Eliz. Maurice - X 0 0 Mr. John Wooler - I 0 0

Sir William Peacock or Mr. William Parker - X 10 0

Seacock - I xo 0 Mr. Thomas Chapman 0 6 0

Mr. Thomas Cottle a hind Mr. Richard Jacob 2 0 0

quarter of beef, and a Mr. James Hodgson - O 10 0

peck of oatmeal value - X 0 0 Mr. John Kendrick - I 10 0

Lady Mary North in bread 3 0 0 Lady Mary Carew - 2 0 0

Mr. William Roaper - 1 0 0 Mr. John Jackson - X 0 0

Mr. Thomas Dawson - 0 9 0 Sir Ralph Freeman - 5 0 0

Mrs. Cooke, Widow of Dr. Lancelot Andrews 5 0 0

David Cooke - 0 S 0 Sir Thomas Cullum - 3 0 0

Mrs. Margaret Dane, 18 George Humble, Esq. - 14 0 0

stone of beef and some Mr. Merrydith - 1 2 0

bread value - X 0 0 Mr John Corbett - 2 xo 0

Mr. John Heydon Aldn - 3 0 0 Lady Rich - 30 0 0

Lady Mary Ramsey - 2 10 0 John Holby, Esq. - 22 0 0

29 7 4 Total £119 *4 4

Mrs. Margaret Symcott every eighth week five shillings worth of penny loaves, i. e. annually - i it (

This is called Eleanor G wynn's bread.

Mr. Thomas Stretchley every third year £2. and £4 to discharge two prisoners every fifth year (

Mrs. Eliz. MiiTon the yearly produce of £200 3 cent, annuitys for meat bread and coals - 600

Chamber of London yearly - _ - 3 2 6

Worshipfull Compy of mercers the yearly intere/l of £45: 4: 1 old S. S. annuities, about - 170

Total £141 16 4

The sums are called in my copy. Yearly &c. Gifts of the respective donors. I understand it to mean bequdts for ever.

POULTRY

186

LONDON,

POULTRY COMPTER.

Cometee KEEPER, Christopher Hayes, who purchased of the city for life, and has let it to Henry West.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors,: 15: 8.

I Felons, o: 13: 4.

j Transports, taken from the Old Bailey by Mr. Aker man.

Licence, Beer and Wine. Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, a penny loaf a day. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a penny loaf a day.

Garnish, Debtors, 0: 4: 8. It is called ward-dues Felons, 0: 1: 6. % candles &c.

Number, Debtors. Felons Debtors. Felons &c,

1774, April 26, 77, 10. 1776, Dec. 3, 53, o.

1776, March 12, 72, 6. 1779, Aug. 6, 46, 5.

--- May 15, 90, 11. Impressed Men 3.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Dr.

Duty, Every other Sunday evening. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £30.

SURGEON, None.

Remarks, FOR master's-side debtors there are about fifteen rooms between the inner and outer gates. For common-side debtors, fix wards within the inner gate, two of them on the ground floor, the King's Ward, in which (1776) were 24 debtors; and the Prince's Ward,9debtors, Above those wards are the Middle JUard, in it were 20 debtors; and the Women's , 2 debtors.

Above them are the Upper,11 debtors; and the Jews Ward ,*4 Jew debtors. Near the middle ward, on the same floor, is a close darkish room for the sick. In each ward, a fire-place. The rooms are out of repair: but the debtors keep their floors very clean. The court is small, but that also is clean: the water constantly running.

It were to be wiflted that in other prisons, those people had the generous

urt indulgence of being kept separate.

LONDON. 187

The tap-room is in the court. Adjoining is the felons day- Poultry room, the Bell. Their night-rooms, one for men, another CoMrTER* for women, are up Hairs. But the women's room was occupied for a workshop by a prisoner, a cooper; and the women slept in the Bell below. No straw or bedding.

On one side of the court is ft chapel; with a narrow gallery all round for master's-side debtors. The chapel, and indeed the whole of this prison, is quite out of repair.

At the roof of the prison, are spacious leads, on which the master's-side debtors are sometimes allowed to walk: but then the keeper is with them: for the leads communicate with the adjoining houses, one of which affords a ready escape from so close a prison in case of fire.

Besides the penny loaf a day, which is from the chamber of London, there are some legacies to the debtors paid by the companies in this city, amounting to about ^60 a year: they have also from the sheriffs 32 pounds of beef on Saturdays, and they had formerly from the Peacock brewhouse (Messrs. Calvert and Co.) a kind donation of two barrels of small beer a week.

In this prison 8 men in 1776 had with them their wives and 19 children. The other prisoners, I learned, had wives and 144 children, not in the gaol.

The act for preserving the health of prisoners, and the clauses against spirituous liquors, are not hung up.

The keeper pays the city £30 a year rent, which is refunded to him for his trouble on night-charges.*

At this prison, as well as at New Ludgate, the Fleet and King's Bench, I heard of the frequent visits of Dr. William Smith j who had been desired to visit thefickinthe prisons of London, Westminster, and Southwark, by the committee of the Westminster charity, in consequence of their humane resolution to appropriate to this purpose the surplus of a collection made in the hard winter of 1776. Sir Charles Whitworth, the chairman, who was acquainted with the plan 1 had been employed on for some years, directed the Doflor to apply to me for a list of the several prisons, with which I with pleasure supplied him, and at the same time informed him of my intended publication.

Dr. Smith's attention seemed to be chiefly turned towards debtors, who spoke with muchefteem and gratitude of him and Mr. Cofens the apothecary, who also attended; and many beneficial effects proceeded from their management. Great alterations had taken place in prisons through the attention of Parliament before the Doctor's visit*; yet he discovered many abuses and frauds still praflifed, which he laid before the public in two pamphlets, printed for J. Bcw in Pa: c: ncfter-ro\v,

188 LONDON,

POULTRY COMPTER,

viz.

Poultry A Table of Fees taken by the Warden, Gaoler, or Keeper of the Comftkr. Poultry Compter within the City of London for any Prisoner or Prisoners Commitment or coming into Gaol, or Chamber-Rent there, or Discharge from thence, in any Civil Act ion settled and established the 15th January, in the 3d Year of the Reign of King George II. and in the Year of our Lord 1729 pursuant to an Act of Parliament lately made, entitled “An Act for the Relief of Debtors with Respect to the Imprisonment of their Persons.”

S. D.

Every prisoner who at his own desire shall go into the bell ward on the

master-side shall pay to the keeper for his entrance fee --030

To the turnkeys for such entrance - 010

Every prisoner in the best ward on the master-side to pay to the keeper for his discharging fee - 0 6 10

To the turnkeys upon such discharge - 0 1 o

Every such prisoner in the best ward on the master-side, who at his own desire shall have a bed to himself to pay for chamber-room use of bed bedding and (heets, to pay to the keeper week - 016

If two in a bed, and no more — for chamber-room, use of bed bedding and (heets to pay to the keeper each per week - 013

In the second ward on the master-side to the keeper for their entrance fee to pay - 030

To the keeper on their discharge - o 6 jo

To the turnkeys on such discharge - 010

Every such prisoner at his own desire shall have a bed to him or herself to pay for chamber, use of bed bedding and (heets, to the keeper per week 0x4 If two in a bed and no more to pay for chamber room use of bed bedding

and (heets, each per week - o 1 x

In the third ward commonly called the fifteenpenny ward entrance nothing, when discharged to the keeper - 060

To the turnkeys on such discharge - , -oxo

Every such prisoner shall have at his own desire a bed to him or herself

co pay to the keeper for chamber-room for the use of bed bedding and (heets, per week -

If two in a bed and no more, to pay for chamber-room use of bed bed-dinv; and lliects, each per week -

In the fourth or common ward, for entrance and lodging nothing When discharged to the keeper

*lo the turnkey on such discharge -

1 3

o 71

6 o

2 o

,;1 WOOD-

's'

I

LONDON.

189

WOOD-STREET COMPTER.

KEEPER, John Kirby.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, £o: 15: 8.

Felons, o: 11: 6.

Transports, taken from the Old Bailey by Mr. Akerman. Licence, Beer and Wine. Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, ? , Ioaf, d (See

Felons, 3

Garnish, £0: 1: 2.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felons &c«

1774, March 1, 3- 1777, Jan. 10, 85s 25.

1776, 12, 71* 36- 779. Aug- 6, 58, 45*

— May 10, 69, 3- — Nov. I5> 38, 11.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr.

Duty, Sunday (constant.)

Salary, £3°-

SURGEON, None. (See Remarks.)

THIS prison, built, as appears by inscription on the front. Remarks. in 1670, has only a small court or passage for all prisoners.

Many apartments: yet but two rooms for common-fidcdebtors: that for the men, which is their day-room, night-room, and kitchen, with a copper &c. is dark and dirty;about 35 feet by 18, and 16 feet high;far too small for the number of prisoners, many of whom lleep in 23 beds which are on three (lories of galleries, or broad shelves. At one of my visits there were in this room 39 debtors; seven of them had their wives and children. The room swarms with bugs. The day and night-room for women-debtors is more lightsome: in it were only two prisoners. Beyond it is a room ruinous, and fit for no use.

For men-felons there are two rooms; and two for women; one of these is a dark cell. No bedding or straw. Those who choose a bed pay is. a night j or else ioj. 6 floorage, and

V-

Wood-street Compter.

WOOD-STREET COMPTER:

3*. 6d. a week. Near those four rooms are twenty-three more for matter's-side debtors.

In the court is the chapel; and under it the tap-room, down sixteen steps. All the rooms aforesaid are within the inner gate; between which and the outer gate (i,e. in the keeper's house) are more rooms for master's-side debtors.

The prison is greatly out of repair: the main wall on one side, Ihored and propped. No infirmary. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

The keeper pays to the chamber of London ^30 a year rent, which is repaid him for his expense on night-charges: he also pays window-tax. I learned from him that in the beginning of the year 1773 his prisoners were sickly, and eleven died. Since that time the governors of the General Dispensary have shewn a kind attention to these poor people; and ordered their physician, Dr. Lettfom, to visit them. He is esteemed by the prisoners: and at my last visits, all were well.

The allowance of a penny loaf is from the chamber of London. Debtors (some of whom are from the court of confidence) have from the sheriffs 32 pounds of beef on Saturday. Mr. Taylor, formerly a baker, has for some years sent them weekly a large leg and (bin of beef: and they had from the Peacock brewhouse (Messrs. Calvert and Co.) a donation of two barrels of small beer a week. There are many legacies for common-side debtors, who receive them quarterly. The annual amount is £59: 2: 11. I was informed that John Fuller, Esq. left ^30 per annum, and appointed the recorder and others in trust, for the payment of fees and chamber-rent of poor debtors confined in the two compters, not exceeding 25*. each, and who had been confined not less than 16 weeks. 'Phis legacy, as Mr. Kirby told me, has not been paid since J 7^5-

Some years since, there came once a fortnight to common-side debtors in this prison, nine stone of beef, and fourteen quartern loaves: and the like relief to other prisons also. The charitable hand was concealed; till, the donation failing on the death of the amiable princess Caroline, it was supposed that her highness had been the generous benefactress.

by

A

LONDON.

princess, the distress of the prisoners, she obtained from the late king a renewal of the charity; which was continued during his majesty's life.

A Table of the Fees to be paid by the prisoners in Wood-street Compter.

For every debtor that hath a room on the master-side, for his or her entrance or floorage - 050

For his or her rent per week provided the keeper find bed, bedding and sheets - 0 a 6

If two in one room, to pay weekly each of them - 013

If debtor or debtors provide their own bed bedding &c. to pay for one or

two in one room, weekly for the room - 013

« S ->

*1 £ /Each debtor on his or her discharge - 080

5 t If on the matter-tide - o 8 10

a°gb

Tor every debtor in the ward called the fifteen penny ward — if the keeper

provide bed bedding and one theet — weekly - 013

For every debtor on the keeper's-side, on his or her entrance there, to pay o 10 8 Tor each room — to pay weekly - o a 6

All persons in any of the charity wards to pay no entrance, or rent For every prisoner committed for felony, misdemeanour or artault on his or herdischarge(except by proclamation at a gaol delivery, then nothing) 012 8

For the copy of commitment - 016

BRIDEWELL.

This building was formerly a palace, near St. Bridget's (St. Bride's) well} from whence it had the name; which, after it became a prison, was applied to other prisons of the same sort.* It was given to the city by king Edward VI. in 1552*

That part of Bridewell which relates to my subject has wards for men and women quite separate. — The men's ward on the ground floor is a day-room in which they beat hemp; and, down two steps, their night-room. > The women's ward is a day-room on the ground floor, in which they beat hemp; and

JoJmfon's Diflicnary,

a night*

191

Wood-street Compter.

Rimaizs.

LONDON.

Bridewell.

a night-room over it. I was told that the chamber above this is to be fitted up for an infirmary. The sick have, hitherto, been commonly sent to St. Bartholomew's hospital. All the prisoners are kept within doors. The women's rooms are large, and have opposite windows, for fre{h air. Their ward, as well as the men's, has plenty of water: and there is a hand-ventilator on the outside, with a tube to each room of the women's ward. This is of great service, when the rooms are crowded with prisoners, and the weather is warm.

The prisoners are employed by a hemp-dreflfer, who has the profit of their labour, an apartment in the prison, and a salary of ^13. I generally found them at work: they are provided for, so as to be able to perform it. The hours of work are in winter from eight to four; in futnmer from fix to fix', deducing meal-times. The steward is allowed eight pence a day for the maintenance of each prisoner; and contracts to supply them as follows — On Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday, a penny loaf, ten ounces of dressed beef without bone, broth, and three pints of ten shilling beer: on Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday, a penny loaf, four ounces of cheese or some butter, a pint of milk-pottage, and three pints of beer. The porter or keeper is now Thomas Holt. Salary, £80; no fees. To the women's ward there is a matron, salary, £bo. She takes care of the sick, both men and women; and is allowed a shilling a day for those that are put on the sick diet.

In Bridewell is a public chapel: the prisoners go thither on Sunday morning (except such as are, in a manner, destitute of apparel): the men and women separated from each other, and from the rest of the congregation.

On the walls of the hall and court-room are hung up many tables of very considerable gifts and legacies to this hospital, in common with others: sufficient, one would think, to have made this prison more commodious, by providing several work-rooms, and lodging-rooms, for keeping the prisoners more fi parate, as new is very prudently done for the Bridewell boys, who were formerly confined in one room.

In winter they have some firing. The night-rooms are fu|)[»lied with firaw. No other prison in London has any draw or other bedding.

LONDON.

A good regulation has been lately made; every person committed a second time to this prison shall have only half the allowance. A proper check where the allowance is so ample.

To this prison were committed,

In the year 1772, Prisoners 1709. 1776, Prisoners 983.

1773, *“ 777- 1777> ~ 544-

1774, — 808. *778, — 1027.

1775, V — 1084.

I found there in

1776, March 13, Prisoners 20. 1776, Dec. 3, Prisoners 24.

--- May 1, — 7. 1779, Aug. 12, — 13.

The Bridewell boys are upon a quite different foundation, and foreign to my subject.

NEW PRISON CLERKENWELL.

GAOLER, James Elmore^ now Samuel Newport.

Salary, £30, now 7°*

Fees, /o: 7: o. (See Remarks.)

Transports, the expense.

Licence, Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, a penny loaf a day.

193

BtlDE-

WEU.

New

Prison

Clerkenwell.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Richards,,.

Duty, Sunday twice; Tuesday and Thursday prayers.

Salary, £$o.

SURGEON, Mr. Gibbes.

Salary, £60, for this prison and the bridewell.

THIS prison, built 1*01775, is much more commodious Remarks than the former of the same name. Over the gate-way are two

O rooms.

Garnish, £0: 1: 4.: '-

Number, Felons tec. 1: i) Felons tec. I.

1774, April 22, 87. 1776, Nov. 13, 58. 1;j 1 1 1

1776, March 5, 37- 1779* AuS* 7* 60. 1

— May 10, 83- — Nov. 15, 45*

New Prison Clerkenwell.

LONDON.

rooms, called Night-Charges,' for prisoners fought in the night, to be: examined by a. magistrate next day. (In one of them are keeper's beds.) From, that outer gate you pass on to the gate of the men's court on the right hand, and of the women's to the left. To each you defeend seven steps. In the men's court is a large open Ihed, which is their day-room. The roof too low for the depth: it has a chimney. Their night-ward, into which they are not permitted to go in the day-time, that the air in it may be cool and fresh, is a house on the other side of the court, divided into two apartments. Each has a room on the ground floor, a chamber, and an upper room. Ia one- part, each of these rooms is 30 feet by 31: in the other, 30 by 20: near 10 feet high: well planked all over: no chimneys. For the free circulation of air, every room has in front, to the court, two windows; and backwards three, with iron bars, and shutters; but, very properly, no glass. Barrack beds in every room; but in each of the two chambers, and in one of the lower rooms, are other beds for those who pay 3*. 6 a week: when these are occupied, no prisoners sleep on the barrack beds in those rooms. In this court is a lock-up room for the unruly. All the stairs arc stone.

On one side of the women's court is their day-room;with a fire-place. Their night-rooms arc — one on the ground floor ranging with the day-rcom, and called the Low JVard; 21 feet by 17, and 10 feet high — a chamber over it of the same size — and a passage or gallery over the day-room: on the back of it are five cabins or cupboards, each 10 feet by 5 feet 8 inches, with a barrack bed for two prisoners. These elofets are very close and unwholesome} having no air but from grates over the doors into the gallery. The two'larger night-rooms have windows only i-n front. Iron bars and shutters: no glass. The windows of both the men's and'women's ward are (as they should be)-too high for them to look out.

The ground floors, and the courts, are paved. There is a pump in each court; and the New-River water is laid in;'but not directly from the main, as it is at the neighbouring prison.

The

i

LONDON.

The chapel is common to this prison and the bridewell. Men of the two different prisons are on opposite Tides below; and women in opposite galleries. The smallness of the chapel, the lowness of the ceiling, and the prisoners being in view of each other, are circumstances highly improper."

The tap-house is near the outer gate. Prisoners do not come into it j but take their liquor at a wicket made for that purpose in the wall, that separates it from them. No infirmary: no bedding or ft raw.

In July 1775, the justices thought fit to raise the gaoler's fees from 5 s.6 d.to 7 s.

A generous benefactor (a salesman in Smithfield) often'fends the prisoners beef and bread. They have occasionally other small donations.- — The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

At my two last visits I found the men's side very clean. — The fines have only the prison allowance.* — The king's evidence are put with the women in their ward, to secure them from the resentment of the other prisoners.

In the gate-way is a board on which is painted as follows.

MIDDLESEX.

A TABLE OF FEES

Taken by the Keeper of New Prison Clerkenwell.

For keeping and discharging every person committed by waiTant of commitment - 060

For turning the key at every such person's discharge - _ - o 1

For going with any person before a justice.- - 016'

For a copy of commitment - 014

Prisoners brought in by constables of the night, and carried before justices of the peace and discharged, to pay two shillings for his or her discharge 020

No spirituous liquors allowed to be brought ha here.

There should be a reparation In all prisons of those called Fines, who are committed for a term, from those who are only committed on suspicion either of felony or imfdemeinours,

O2 CLERKEN-

*95

New Prison Clerkenwell.

LONDON.

Clerkenwell Bridewell.

Remarks.

CLERKENWELL BRIDEWELL.

KEEPER, Edward Hall.

Salary, £50.

Fees, £0: 7: o. (See Remarks.)

Transports, taken from court by Mr. Akerman.

Licence, Beer and Wine. Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, a penny loaf a day.

Garnish, £0: 1: 4.

Number, Prisoners. Prisoners.

1774, April 22, 87. 1776, Nov. 13, 136.

1776, March 8, 93. 1777, Jan. 10, 108. } 5 w

--- May 10, 113. 1779, Aug. 13, W-S'

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Richard

Duty, 7 §£C New Prison.

Salary, 3 J

SURGEON, Mr. Gibbes.

Salary, See New Prisott.

OVER the gate, two new rooms for night-charges, as at the New Prison. In the prison, men and women have separate courts and wards. The men have in their court three Iheds for day-rooms: one, 6 feet by 16j the other two, 6 by 10 each;full 8 feet high. Their night-rooms opposite on the ground floor, one for fines, and one for other offenders, aro about 20 feet by 14 each;with barrack beds. One of them was so, crowded, that some prisoners slept in hammocks. Over these night-rooms are chambers with beds for those who pay 31. 6 d.a week; and another room also for fines: joining to which, is a (mail dose room used as an infirmary for men. In another part of the court is a hemp-shop or work-Ihop: it is a passage to fix little work-shops for faulty apprentices; 7 feet by 3 - each: fronting these are their fix night-rooms, larger than the (hops (8 by 4); ajl on the ground floor.

T'i the women's court are three Iheds or day-rooms j fame those of the men j with a hemp-Ihop or work-Ihop.

LONDON.

*97

y\ rTsv

Over this, and the men's workshop, is a long gallery or passage;on the back of which were twelve dark unwholesome night-rooms for women;9feet by 7 each, and 10j high (in some of them are beds for those who pay): but two of these rooms are now made into one for an infirmary for the women.

The keeper pays window-tax; and 2 a year for New-River water; which is directly from the main., and always on. Be-fides this they have good water at a pump in each court.

In July 1775, the justices augmented the fees from 5 6di to js. At the same time, in of fees from acquitted prisoners, which were cancelled by the late aft, they paid the keeper at the rate of £20 a year from the time when that act: took place. ..

To this bridewell, among criminals, are committed debtors from the court of requests; who are discharged after forty days.

Of the 108 in January 1777, above thirty were convicts, or fines, that is, criminals committed for a term of years, to five or six. Some of these, and of the others, were sick. They complained of fore feet, v/hich the turnkey said were quite black. The sick were for the most part women of the poorest fort; not able to pay for beds. No draw or bedding allowed. — There were, in the whole, as many women-prisoners as men.

This prison is much too final 1 for the number committed to it. — At my lad visit it was clean. — Of the 171 prisoners, 22 men and boys, and 58 women were convicts. These were employed in picking oakum;the women in two rooms below, the men up stairs.* A warehouse and a shed for drying have been lately erected on some ground at the back of this prison. — The convicts here are allowed three pence a day. The act for preferring the health of prisoners not hung up.

Clerken-

vriu

Bridewell.

This is a salutary employment, as the Arong feent of the pitch and tar may coumeraft any contagious or unhealthy effluvia in the work-rooms.

r,

I I

03

WdJ'usex.

C iMftK- Middlesex. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace — holdea WELL in and for the County of Middlesex at Hicks's Hall — (by Adjourn-ttent) — ijthofjuly — 15th year of George III. &c.

A Table of Fees to be taken at the House of Correction at Clerkenwell.

£. S. D.

For keeping and discharging every prisoner committed by warrant, and turning the key at every such prisoner's discharge - 070

For a copy of every commitment - 014

For going with any prHbner before a justi^e - 010

Prisoners brought in by constables of the night and carried before a justice - 040

By the Court

Butler

WHITECHAPEL PRISON,

CHAftli

FOR DEBTORS.

Remarks. This 16 a prison for the liberty and manor of Stepney; and Hackney. The former includes, by a printed lift which I have, towns, parishes, villages, streets, lanes &c. to the number of forty-six; and was granted by king Edward VI. to lord Wentworth, and his heirs for ever.

In it are confined those whose debts are above £2, and under £5. The master's-fide prisoners have four sizeable chambers, fronting the road;i. e. two on each story. They pay 2 s.6 d.a week; and lie two in a bed;two beds in a room. The common-fide debtors arc in two long rooms in the court, near the tap-room; men in one room, women in the otherthe court-yard in common. They hang out a begging-box from a little closet in the front of the house; and attend it in turn. It brings them only a few pence a day; and of this pittance none partake but those who at entrance have paid the keeper it. 6 d.and treated the prisoners with half a gallon of beer. When I was there in 1777, no more than three had purchased nrivilcgc.

The

LONDON.

The prison is out of repair. It is the property of the lady of the manor. The keeper, George ,is an officer: he

pays rent ^24; and window-tax, and all other taxes. He keeps the tap. Fees, £0: 8 1. No table: but in November

1776,1 saw a paper hung up, on which was written as follows:

/ r

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Keeper of this Prison.

£. S. D.

For the discharge of every person upon any civil action, process or execution - 081

For every person whochoofes to lay on the matter-tide, for the first night o»o For every person who chooses to lie on the matter-tide after the fiift night

to pay every week - '-026

George Garred keeper 10th August 1776.

At the same time I saw another paper intitled Rules and Orders to be observed in this Prison. It is dated Aug. 6. 1776. The £iK rule is, “That every person who comes into this prison as a prisoner, shall pay for his 2 10

The clauses of the act against spirituous liquors are hung up.

At my first aafit there were on the common-side two prisoners in hammocks, lick and very poor. — No chaplain. A compassionate man, who was not a regular clergyman, did sometimes preach to them on Sunday; and give them some small relief.

Lady Townshend fends a guinea twice a year, which her servant distributes equally among the prisoners.

As debtors here are generally very poor, I was surprised to fee once ten or twelve noisy men at (kittles; but the turnkey said they were only visitants. I found they were admitted here as at another public house. No prisoners were at play with them.

The court-room is near this prison. At my last visit I was informed that not a tenth part of the usual business has been transacted here, since the lateac \for

to prevent frivolous and vexatious arrejls. 19 Geo. III. Cap. LXX.

1774, April 27, Prisoners 25. 1777* Jam 8, Prisoners 27.

1776, May 7, — 23. 1779, Aug. 11, s — 5.

— Nov. 13, — 2C.

04 TOWER

m

Whitechapel.

LONDON.

Tower

TOWER HAMLETS GAOL,

Hamlets.

IN WELL-CLOSE SQUARE.

Remarks. This prison is at a public house, kept by an honest Swede, who is gaoler. There is a court-room in the house for the Tower Hamlets. The prison-yard is 116 feet by 18, latticed over head. At one end, are two large rooms;of which little use has been made since the last war, when French prisoners were kept in them. The present prison-rooms are towards the other end of the court: on the ground floor is a day-room or closet about 5-F feet by 3 [, with a chimney. Up (lairs are three night-rooms. Debtors from the court of requests are sent to Clerkenwell bridewell. The prison is quite out of repair, and not secure. Keeper no salary. Fees, 9*. No table.

Allowance, from a penny to two pence a day. No draw.

1774, April 29, Prisoner 1. 1776, May 17, Prisoner 1.

1776, March 9, — 0. 1779, Aug. 10, — 0.

St.

Catharine*.

St. CATHARINE'S PRISON,

FOR DEBTORS.

Remarks. This prison, rebuilt about ten years ago, is a small house of two (lories j two rooms on a floor. In April 1774, there was a keeper, but no prisoners. I have lince that called two or three times, and found the house uninhabited: in August 1779, it was inhabited, but there were no prisoners.

WESTMINSTER.

201:

THE SAVOY. Savoy.

This prison for soldiers, has two rooms called the Guard Rema»k«. Rooms; because in them are confined offenders who are of the king's guards. The remainder of the building near the gate is the keeper's house. On the opposite side of the court, is a large room down five steps, the Hall: the rooms over it useless. On the left-hand side of the court is another hall, not so large: at each end of it is a room with barrack bedsteads and beds;both rooms very close and unhealthy. Over them are other barrack-rooms, somewhat more airy: one of them.

No. 4. is tolerable, and has opposite windows. There are, besides, the Black Hole, the Condemn d Heldy the Cock Pity and several other parts of this irregular building, which I pass over.

March 15, 1776, there were 119 prisoners; of whom 49 were transports. I saw many sick and dying. The gaol was so infe&cd by them, that the.distemper has been caught there bymanyfincej and if it be not thoroughly purified, it will destroy many more. The whole is indeed much out of Vepair; hardly any part of it secure.

May 25, Prisoners 37. Many of them sick of the gaol dif-temper, in the rooms where I saw the sick and dying in March.

Keeper, Capt. Jackson: salary, £50: no fees: he pays land-tax, window-tax, water &c. Allowance, four pence a day.

1779, Aug. 13, Prisoners 98, viz.

64 Deserters, 21 Impressed Men, and 13 of the Guards.

The prisoners were in health; the rooms made more airy, and some rooms adjoining are fitted up for an infirmary.

TOTHILL-

K1

WESTMINSTER.

4

i

I.f I '

DEEPER* George Smith. j *.. K_ S alary, £50, paying the widow of the former keeper £20.

iii. Fees, £0;5: 2.

Transports, taken by Mr. Akerman.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

THIS prison has — Formen, twoday-rooms and three night-roerns — For faulty apprentices, five rooms, ten feet by seven — For women, a day-room, and four night-rooms. All the night-rooms ha\ e barrack beds. They are constantly washed every; and arc quite wholesome. The prisoners wash their hmds and faces every morning before they come for their allowance. No straw. No infirmary. A little room used as a t'a*gerv. A chapel, in which Mr. Smith reads a chapter, and p.avers every morning.

The women should have another day-room: and one of the cav-rooms for men should he enlarged. There would then be lot's quarreling among them: and prisoners who are now idle might be employed. The courts adjacent might also be enlarged. The rooms for women, and their court, are now more*v, the garden-pales being set farther off. The keeper pays v ndow-tax, and for water. Over the gate is a paper with Is-x mieription: 44 No person admitted into this prison on a S. v a v after nine o'clock in the morning until five in the evening.”

Allowance, a penny loaf, and a penny a day each,

Garnish, £0: I 14.

Number, Prisoners.

Prisoners.

1774, April 22, 38.

1775, March 4, 109.

1776, March 6, 86.

1777, Jan. 8, no.

1779, Aug. 5, 74.

Impressed Men 10.

May 3> 75-

CHAPLAIN, None.

M

SURGEON, Mr. Salary, £20.

r

At

WESTMINSTER.

203

At my visit in 1777, there were among the felons, two debtors from the court of requests j and at my last visit, three. — I found this prison clean as usual. There is now a work-ihop with hemp-blocks, and a room over it. Two of the women's night-rooms are appropriated to female convicts, who have also a separate court with water &c. As I have seen several sick objects on the floors, the gentlemen, who are so ready to relieve the sufferings of their fellow-creatures, will forgive the intimation that an infirmary might be made over the women's ward.

Fees allowed for the Governor of Tothill-fields Bridewell, as by Order of Court January Sessions 1772.

£. S.

For commitment and discharge of a prisoner by warrant For the turnkey -

Copy of commitment -

For a night's charge -

04a 010 o j. 4 010

Signed in open court by

James Fielding George S. Bradshaw George Aaron Lamb.

WESTMINSTER GATE-HOUSE.

This prison, the property of the Dean and Chapter, was over two gate-ways j but being in a very ruinous condition, has been taken down: and another is erected in Tothill-fields, joining to the bridewell, but not yet inhabited, Aug. 5, 1779. There will be a proper separation of debtors and felons; and in the court of the latter arc four small rooms for the refractory. Both debtors and felons, though not seen by one another, will be in view from the pulpit, and there the keeper can easily observe them when they are locked up. The courts will be plentifully supplied with water, by pipes from the main. The outer walls are too low, so that tools may be easily conveyed over.

SOUTH-

Tothill-

FIELDS BRIDE-WELL.

Gatehouse.

Remarks.

SOUTHWARK.

KING'S BENCH.

Remarks.

THE KING'S BENCH PRISON,

FOR DEBTORS.

MARSHAL, Thomas , Esq.

Deputy Marshal, Thomas , Esq. now

Mr. Farmer

Salary

Fees, See Table.

Licence, Beer and Wine. Tap let. (See Remarks.)

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish,: 2: o.

Number, In the House. 1774, April 26, 324,

1776, Jan. 28, 364,

--- May - 395,

1779, Aug. 11, 511,

--- Oa. 26, 438,

In the Rules. 100.

80.

(See Remarks.)

75-

60.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Evans.

Duty, Sunday once; the sacrament once a month.

Salary,: 2: O on every commitment.

SURGEON, None.

THIS prison is part old buildings, part new.

The old buildings are — a coffee-room just within the gate — and a street called King-street. On the right hand is the tap-house; and four houses for' prisoners: each consisting of a ground floor, and two floors of chambers j four rooms on each floor; near 10 feet square, and 7 high. On the left-hand side of the street is the chapel; and fix houses for prisoners; of equal depth with the former houses: but the back-rooms have not, as the former have, communication with the fore-rooins. At the hither end of the fore-rooms, on the ground floor, is a common kitchen, much too small. The cook, a prisoner, has the room over it. These houses also have ground-

rooms,

b

SOUTHWARK.

205

rooms, and two floors of chambers. All the rooms fronting King-street, and the whole of the houses on the other side the way, are for master's-flde debtors;who pay for each room unfurnished a shilling a week. The back-part of the left-hand row is the common-side; the doors in the back-front. The first room on the ground floor they call their court-room. The two houses at the farther end have fix rooms, for crown-debtors and fines; and are called Crown-court. The rest of this range on all the three floors is for common-side debtors. At the farther end of King-street, in a small court enclosed from the rest of the yard, is a building called the State-house;con/ifting of ground , and two Boors of

chambers; four sizeable rooms on each total twelve.

A debtor who chooses to be here, pays the from eight

to ten guineas for his whole time; besides a shilling a,like other master's-side debtors.

All these old buildings are out of repair.

The new buildings are — first, a house at the gate for the turnkey. The chambers are very convenient; and were let to a prisoner who paid a very high rent. — But the principal new building is at the farther end of the yard. The two parts of it form a right angle. One part is four with four

ground-rooms to each; and the same number of chambers on each of the three floors above: total sixty-four. The rooms are about 13 feet by 11, and about 8 feet high. The other part (the wing) is built as the Fleet p;but more airy and commodious. It has the same number of floors as the first part. On each floor is a passage 74 feet wide, and 73-- long: rooms on each side the passage, eleven on each floor, total forty-four; each room 13i feet by 9-, about 8 feet high.

The prison is well supplied with water. Among the late improvements, of 108 new rooms, and a spacious court, it is pity they did not build an infirmary. The are numerous. At more than one of my visits (which I repeated to this as well as many other prisons much ofccner than the times when I took the numbers) some had the small pox. It was so crowded the summer 1776, that a prisoner paid Eve shillings a week for half a bed, and many lay in the chapel. In 1776, the number of prisoners within the walls was 395; and

by

King's

BENCH.

[Much junk removed.]

SOUTHWARK.

0 behave with the utmost tenderness. cod at the door.

of, or even distribute the charity, epair. Chaplain duly to perform.

ks.

t in repair for devotion, or convention: $ for the lick.

h before &c. that they have not £$ Sec, irities, offices in the prison &c.

for any criminal matter to vote for c of any charity but the baikets.

: ny ward, gratis.

losen aflittant, and enjoy the benefits of

i-side to be kept by the matter of King's at to any deed without the approbation

1 aflittants.

n may be superseded with common-side,not without application to the court, clerk to take p fee on the occr.fion. re of by the tteward and: who

of the first county-money.

tteward and aflittants with the marshal's r support of the poor, to be paid out of

to have no pay for common business, or

rr the ift day of Easter-term, to have but isummer dividend.

in by the basket-tnen, or brought in at Whitsuntide, to be divided immediately: -mcQ for their trouble, nee money for a supersedeas, he is to be next county-money.

ers may elect an annual tteward; who is but on application to the court or a judge, lies may vote.

ter in books the table of fees, these rules, r rities. All, together with his accounts, for loners.

cd by the tteward and aflittants, on applying judge, shall be paid his damages out of the

next

207

Kings Bench.

next dividend of the Reward and ailistants: if he complain unjustly, he shall make satisfaction from his own next dividend.

30. If the Reward or afiiRants embezzle the money, successore may call them to account, and Rop their dividends of the grate-money &e. for reparation of the injury.

31. These orders to be read publicly every third Monday.

32. Marshal, servants, and prisone«-s to observe these rules under pain of the utmoR punishment of law.

33. No clerk or servant of a judge to take any fee on occaRon of a petition founded on these orders.

R. Raymond Ta. Reynolds E.Probyk.

The preceding rules fill one side of a large (beet of paper, on wh;ch they are printed. Another sheet has what follows, viz.

Further Rules and Orders for the Government &c.

Made and Signed the 10th Day of May 1759.

1. No person to bring any weapon.

2. Those on the mailer's-side who demand garnish, to be tnmed to common-side for a time, not longer than a month. Those on the common-side are for the like offence to be excluded, not longer than a fortnight, from all profits except share of the baskets.

3. Doors of the great garden to be (hut at dark: doors of the wards at nine.

4. The chambers at disposal of the marshal Sec.

5. If a mail ?r's-side prisoner neglect for a ir onth to pay his chamber-rent; he may be turned over to the common-side till he pays. His goods to be delivered to bim, by a witnessed inventory. If discharged by the plaintiff, he may yet be detained for fees, and a month's chamber-rent.

6. None to fell in the prison victuals or drink without consent of marilial. A prisoner thus offending may be turned over to the common-side for a month. Marshal to take care that those wh< fell do keep good order &c.

7. Confirms the 14th rule preceding, i. e. The great room for exerci and the two rooms for the sick.

L

SOUTHWARK.

209

1

8. Prisoner* turned to common-side for offending, or non-payment, King'* j j

to have no profit but share of the baskets;to bear no office; nor: J

vote for officers. 1 1

9.These rules to be fixed in the most public places, for inspection. j

1 I1

Signed, Mansfield, T.Dennison, M. Forster, E. Wilmot.

A farther Rule and Order &c. made 19th May 1760. i

Those who attempt or assist an escape — who sell or promote the sale of victuals or liquors without leave of the marshal — who assault another — who blaspheme the name of God, swear or make a riot,;

may be sent by the marshal to any one of the following prisons in j

Southwark viz The county gaol for Surry, the bridewell for that county, or to the Marshalsea: and there confined for the first offence j

not exceeding one month;for a second offence not exceeding three months. This rule to be hung up.

Signed, Mansfield, T.Dennison, M. Forster, E. Wilmot.

On the same sheet is

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Marshal of the Kine's Bench Prison, in the County of Surry, for any Prisoner or Prisoners Commitment, or coming in Gaol, or Chamber-Rent there, or Discharge from thence in any Civil Action. Settled and established the 16th Day of June in the 33d Year of the Reign of his Majesty King George the Second, and in the Year of our Lord 1760, pur- % suant to an Act for the Relief of Debtors with respect to the imprisonment of their Persons, viz.

First. To the marshal for every prisoner committed on any civil action 048 id. To the turnkey on the master's-side - 016

3d. To the marshal on the discharge of every such prisoner - 074

4th. To the deputy marshal upon the discharge of one or more actions, executions, or other charge, and no further fee though there be never so many adtons - . - 040

5th. To the clerk of the papers for the first action upon the discharge 030 6th. To the clerk of the papers for every ad ion, execution, or other charge to be paid on the discharge - 004

7th. To the deputy marshal upon a commitment of a prisoner in court, or at a judge's chambers, on any civil action, if carried to the King's Bench prison - oxo

p Sth.

.1.

210

King's Bench».

SOUTHWARK.

£.s.o.

8th. To the clerk of the papers for the same - o i o

9th. To the said deputy matihal for a surrender in discharge of bail, be there never so many actions - 0 I o

loth. To the clerk of the papers for each action upon such surrender o o 6 nth. To each of the four tipstaffs, a t. 6d. for each prisoner's commitment by the court, and carried to the King's Bench prison, in the whole p to o nth. To the tipstaff that carries any prisoner committed at a judge's chambers to the said prison - 0 6 o

13th. To the marshal for the use of chamber, bed, bedding and sheets for each prisoner, if provided by the gaoler at the prisoner's request, for the first night, in the common-side of the said prison - 006

14th. For the like use every night the prisoner remains in custody after the first - 0 o il

15th. And if two lie in one bed, id.each - 00a

16th. For the like use of every prisoner that goes on the master's-side, for the first night - 006

17th. For the like use every night after the first - 003

18th. And if two lie in a bed, 2d. each - 0 0 4

19th. And if the prisoner finds his own bed, bedding and sheets (which the marshal is in no fort to hinder him of) then he shall pay for chamber-rent to the marshal, per week - 0 x 0

Hoother fee for the use of chamber, bed, bedding and Jbects, or upon the commitment or discharge of any prisoner on any civil

Thomas Howard, Anthony Thomas Abdy, William Hammond,

Mansfield,

T. Parker.

Two excellent rules have been lately hung up and enforced.

Monday next after Three Weeks from the Day of the Holy Trinity in the 19th year of King George the Third.

King's Bench Prison. Upon full and mature consideration had l*ere in court, [t js ordered by the said court, that any man may lawfully be turned out of his chamber for the following causea (that u to say) if such person lets his chamber to another, or does not reside there himself, or if such person might have taken the benefit o* any insolvent act or the lord's aft; or if be be charged by a nendly or collusive action where there is no real debt.

By the Court.

Friday

-D — by

SOUTHWARK*

211

Friday next after fifteen days from the day of the Holy Trinity in the 19th Year of King Georcs the Third.

King's Bench Prison. It is ordered that all prisoners who have been or shall be in the custody of the marshal of the Marshalsea for the space of six months after they are supersedeable although not superseded shall be forthwith discharged out of the prison of the marshal of the marshalsea by the said marshal as to all such actions in which they have been or shall be supersedeable. And that no prisoner shall be intitled to any room in the said prison by reason of seniority except from the time of his being charged in the actions in which be it not faperfedeable.

By the Court.

There are, besides, in this prison, as in the Fleet, certain printed rules made by the prisoners themselves, “ to be obeyed and observed by every member of this College” (as they are pleased to term it.) Many of them are arbitrary and improper.

MARSHALSEA PRISON.

DEPUTY MARSHAL, Tho now deceased.

Substitute, Thomas Phillips, now William

Salary

Tees, £o: 10: 10.

Licence, Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0: 5: 4. It is called ward-dues for coals &c. N umber Prisoners. Prisoners.

1774, March 16, 167. 1776, May 15, 234.

1775, March 6, 175. 1779, Aug. 10, 92.

1776, March 12, 194.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Cockan. Duty, Sunday.

Salary, ir. from each prisoner on discharge. SteTab.Fteu

SURGEONS, Messrs. Stapleton and Waljhman.

Salary, 1 s. from each prisoner on discharge. SaTab.

King's Bench.

Marshalsea.

SOUTHWARK.

Marshalsea.

Remarks.

TO this prison of the Court of the Marshalsea, and of the King's Palace-Court of Westminster, are brought debtors arrested for the lowest sums, any where within twelve miles of the palace, except in the city of London: and also persons committed for piracy.

The deputy marshal, under whose particular custody this prison is, has his appointment from the knight marshal of the king's household for the time being. The great abuses practised by this officer were reported to parliament by the Gaol Committee in 1729.

This prison is an old irregular building (rather several buildings) in a spacious court. There are, in the whole, near sixty rooms; and yet only fix of them now left for common-side debtors. Of the other rooms, — five are let to a man who is not a prisoner: in one of them he keeps a chandler's lhop;in two he lives with his family: the other two he lets to prisoners. Four rooms, the Oaks, are for women. They are too few for the number.; and the more modest women complain of the bad company, in which they are confined. There are above forty rooms for men on the master's-side, in which are about sixty beds;yet at my former visits, many prisoners had no beds nor any place to deep in, but the chapel, and the tap-room. The chamber-rent wants regulation. For in several rooms where four lie in two beds, and in some dark rooms where two lie in one bed, each pays 3;. 6 d.a week for his lodging.

The prison is too small, and greatly out of repair. Little regard is shewn to the late act for white-washing and cleaning the rooms. No infirmary. The court is well supplied with water. In it the prisoners play at rackets, missisippi See.; and in a little back court, the Park, at (kittles.

The tap was let to a prisoner in the rules, of the King's Bench prison; this prison being just within those rules. I was credibly informed, that one Sunday in the summer 1775, about 600 pots of beer were brought in from a public house in the neighbourhood (Alhmore's) the prisoners not then liking the tapster's beer.

In March 1775, when the number of prisoners was 175, there were with them in this incommodious prison wives and children 46.

SOUTHWARK.

Mr. Allnutt, who was many years fmce a prisoner here, had. Marshal-during his confinement, a large estate bequeathed to him. He SIA* learned sympathy by his sufferings; and left £100 a year to relcafe poor debtors from hence. This is called the Oxford charity. Many are cleared by it every year.

There are sundry small legacies, besides the county money, which is £4: 10: o every month, and Mrs. Margaret Symcott's (Eleanor Gwynn's) bread, which is 65 penny loaves every eight weeks j but no table hung up.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of the Marshalsea Prison — on any Civil Action — settled — the 17th Day of May 1765 Pursuant to an Act for Relief of Debtors &c. '

£. S. D.

To the knight marshal upon the discharge of every prisoner charged with

one or more actions - . - o x 8

To the keeper for his care and safe custody of every prisoner upon the discharge of such prisoner on the first action - o 4 8

To the keeper upon the discharge of such prisoner charged with one or more actions after the first - 038

To the surgeon or apothecary on the discharge of every prisoner charged with one or more actions - 0 1 0

To the chaplain on the like discharge - 0 1 0

To the turnkey upon the discharge of every prisoner on the first action 016 To the turnkey upon the discharge of such prisoner charged with one or more actions after the first - 0 1 0

To the clerk for entering the discharge of a prisoner on one or more actions 010 To the keeper for the use of bed, bedding and sheets for every prisoner if found by the gaoler at the prisonei's request, for the first night on the master's-side of the said prison - 006

And every night after tire first night - 003

And if two lie in a bed zd. each - 004

No other fee for the use of chamber, bed, beddin, or upon the or commitment

of any prisoner on any civil a Sion,

IV. Richardson Elliot Bishop Leond Ho.

Mansfield C. Pratt T. Parker.

P3 BOROUGH

SOUTHWARK. BOROUGH COMPTER.

GAOLER, Jeremiah Beavis.

Salary,none.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 7: 0. Felons, o: 11: 4.

Transports, 0: 10: 6 from the contractor.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, a penny loaf a day each (weight in Felons, 5 dug. 1779* 12 GacrHh, £0 *.2: 8 master's-side.

0: 1: 4 common-side.

Xc-rSrr, Debtors. Felons Sec.Debtors. Fefoflt&c.

Mar 4, 37 y 4- 1776, Nov. 13, J5> 1.

March 11, 10, 3* >779. Aug. 10, 16, 2.

May 2, 18, 2.

CHAPLAIN”, None.

SVxGION, None.

3Li THIS prhoa, in Tooley-street, for the borough of South-

w-irc. wh oh contains four parishes and a part of a fifth, has, jL-c raoborVfice debtors seven rooms — for common-side debtors, a rvvm on the ground floor, in which felons See. are with them B g't xr.dcay; a long room up stairs, the Rookery; and a r.Yc c«er it, u.c!ei>, because not secure. — The women are in the kitchen, now divided into two rooms. Three of the ecvrcrvtvtsde rooms have barrack beds. Among the debtors t't r-ur.v poor creatures from the court of conscience, who lie rN~r: . their debts are paid. — -There is a finall court} and a o' e,\ bet no chaplain is appointed.

; v v. o".o prison is much out of repair, and ruinous. No - '_ v. No Soo!i: ng or ft raw. The keeper, an officer, pays x o*-: >\ and Lr.d-ux. He is put in by the high bailiff, v v,0*00: > in the disposal of the court of aldermen. — An'0*v'o'VT the cate, dated 1716, calls it the Borough Court; e - eve t> are row held at St. Margaret's Hill.

SOUTHWARK. 215

The clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up: but the Borough act for preserving the health of-prisoners is not hung uji, and CoM, TE* no regard paid to it.

Debtors have 65 penny loaves, once in eight weeks, from a legacy of Eleanor Gwynn. No memorial hung up.

This prison might be made more commodious, by building on a piece of ground, at the back of it* 41 feet by 20, which the keeper now uses as a garden.

Southwark. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace of our Sovereign Lord the King holden for the Town and Borough of Southwark at the Court-House on St. Margaret's Hill — on Friday the 8th Day of January in the 21st Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George the Second before Sir Robert Ladbroke Knt. Mayor — John Stracey Esqr. Recorder — and others. Sec. Sec.

It being represented to this court that the fees of the gaoler or keeper of the Borough Compter in regard to the prisoners charged therein with any criminal matter remain yet unsettled, for want whereof divers impositions may accrue to the poor prisoners therein. For settling and establishing the same It is ordered that the keeper or gaoler of the said prison shall and may take of every prisoner so charged as aforesaid the following fees and no more.

That is to say

For- the admission of every prisoner for felony trespass assault or other misdemeanours - 0114

For every night's lodging - 006

To the turnkey for the dismission of every such prisoner - 010

for every prisoner brought by a peace officer for safe custody ontill hearing can be had before a magistrate - 0 a o

By the court V Man.

N. B. Two other prisons in Southwark, viz. the New Gaol in the Borough, and the Bridewell in St. George's Fields, belong to the county of Surry.

P4

216 HERTFORDSHIRE. Home Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at HERTFORD.

H*t- GAOLER,

Salary, none. ^39: 6: 10 to supply the felons with

Fees, Debtors, 7 ' bread, as below.

Felons, 5 ° ! , S: +-

Transports, £1: 1: 0 each to London.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, 1 lb.of bread a day farmed by the gaoler. Garnish, £0: 4: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec.Debtor*. Felons &c.

1773, Dec. 9, 3> 19.

1774, — *4> 2, 14.

1776, Feb. 14, 16, 16. Deserter 1.

1776, Nov. 22, 6, 12.

1779, Sep. 27, 1, 17-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Scotty now Rev. Mr.

Duty, Sunday; and one other day not fixed.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Cutler,

Salary, £10.

Remarks. THIS gaol, built in 1702, is in the middle of the town.

In front are two small day-rooms, for felons, in which they are always locked up: no fire-place. — Their dungeons or night-rooms are, one down 18 steps, the other 19. Over their day-rooms, is a large lumber-room; and joining to it a lodging-room for women-ielons. Backward is a small court for debtors, and women-felons. On each side of it are two rooms on the ground floor, and two chambers for debtors. No chapel. No infirmary. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

In the interval of two of my visits the gaol fever prevailed, and carried off seven or eight prisoners, and two turnkeys.*

I was well informed, that a prisoner brought out as dead, from one of the dungeons, on being ivojkcd under the f>ump, shewed signs of life, and soon after - covered. Since this, I have known ether instances of the same kind.

217

r-u -ip

The felons were on that occasion removed to the bridewell. At my second visit in 1776, four were sick.

This gaol could not have been made healthy and convenient. There is anew one building just out of the town, with separate wards and courts for debtors, men-felons and women-felons, and the whole surrounded by a wall 15 feet high.

Hertford County Gaol.

Hertfordshire> to wit. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace of our Sovereign — holden at — -Hertford on Monday — the 12th day of January in the first year of — rour Sovereign Lord George III. by the grace of God — and in the year of our Lord 1761 before Sir Richard Chafe Knt. Ralph Freeman Dottor in Divinity, Richd Warren, James Gordon, Wm Janssen and W«n Plumer the younger, Esqrs. and others. See.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler — settled — pursuant to an Act — made in the 3 2d year of — K. George II.

For the chamber-rent, bed and bedding of each debtor night provided that no more than two be put into one bed nor more than two beds in one room

For the chamber-rent, bed and bedding of each prisoner upon criminal process per week provided that no more than two be put into one bed; nor more than two beds in the same room For the turnkey's fees into gaol - For the turnkey's fees out of gaol -

For the gaoler's fees upon each prisoner discharged

c S, 004

036 010 010 o 13 4

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Hertford. This is also the borough gaol. Two small rooms Bride-

to the street, the Compter: one behind them, the middle WZLLU

ward: and one beyond that, the lower ward. There is also a dungeon for men down 7 steps, 16 feet by 10J-, and 6 feet high: the window feet J>y 1: a court, and pumpj

but prisoners are always locked up within doors. I saw none at work. The county gaoler is keeper, and has ^24 a year to supply each prisoner daily with a pound of bread. Fees,

£° 4: 6.

1774, Dec. 14, Prisoners 4. 1776, Nov. 22, Prisoners 4.

1776, Feb. 14, — 7. 1779, Sep. 27, — 1.

218 HERTFORDSHIRE. Home Circuit.

Hitchin. In the work-house yard, a room for men 20* feet by I0|; and over it two rooms for women, who go up to them by a ladder. No chimney in any of the rooms: no draw: no court: no water. Keeper's salary, £24: no fees. 1776, Feb. 14, Prisoners 2. 1779, Oct. 21, None.

Berkhamsted. A work-room for men, and another for women. A dungeon down9steps, 13 feet by 94: earth floor, very damp, no window. — No ft raw: no court: no water. Keeper's salary, £20: no fees: he has the profit of the prisoners work. They are sometimes employed in chopping rags. Allowance, a pound of bread a day.

1776, Nov. 2, No prisoners.

1779, April 23, 1 Prisoner.

Buntingford. Two rooms; one for men, 18 feet by 8; the other a new one for women, 13 feet by 10. No water: no court. The keeper has a large garden. Salary,

1779, Sep. 27, 1 Prisoner.

At St. Alban's are.

The Borough Gaol, or Compter. Debtors have the use of the town-hall in the day-time: their lodging-room joins to it. Felons have two day-rooms, and two close offensive night-rooms. Their allowance, a pound of bread a day. No straw: no court: no water. The keeper's salary, £2: fees, I3f* 4* no table. Licence for beer. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up.

1776, March 1, No prisoners.

—— Nov. 3, Debtors 2. Felons.2.

1779, April 24, — o. _ c. Deserteri.

The Liberty Gaol, for twenty-two parities, is the property of Lord Salisbury. For debt, two spacious day-rooms, and three lodging-rooms. — For felons, three offensive rooms. No straw: no court: no water. Keeper, fame as of the borough gaol: salary, £&: fees, 13*. 4* no table.

1776, March 1, No prisoners.

—— Nov. 3, Debtor 1.

1779, April 24, — . c> Felon &c. 1. Deserters 2.

The

ESSEX.

219

The Bridewell for the Liberty, and for the *, joins

to the Liberty gaol. One large work-room, and two lodging-rooms } all up stairs, and airy. No court: no water: no allowance: no straw. Prisoners have their earnings. Keeper's salary for the liberty, £28;for the borough, £2: no fees. At my last visit, I found a girl, who was sentenced for a year's imprisonment, locked up all the day with two soldiers in the work-room.

1776, March 1, Prisoners 2.

— - Nov. 2, — 0.

1779, April 24, — 3.

ESSEX.

COUNTY GAOL at CHELMSFORD.

GAOLER, Stifanna Taylor,

Salary, none.

F-

Transports, to London or Gravesend, £1: 5: 0 for each, if not more than seven: for each above seven £1: 1: 0. Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 7 a pound and half of bread a day, and Felons, 5 aquartoffmallbccr.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 4: 6.

Felons, 0: 3: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec.Debtors.Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 4, 30, 30. 1776, Nov. 20, 11, 7.

-- Dec. 6, 13, 31. 1779, April 7, 34, 7.

1775, Oa.^, 19, 14.

CHAPLAIN, now Rev. Mr. Morgan.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £40, now 50.

SURGEON, Mr. Griffinhooft.

Salary, £25, for felons, and the bridewell prisoners.

A CLOSE

Chelmsford

ea&vffinwr

220

ESSEX.

Home Circuit.

r;

Cinwv- A clc'E prison, frequently infedfed with the gaol-distemper. X1* Inquiring in October 1775, for the head-turnkey, I was told gV.-L he died of it.

Rixaixv. In the tip-room there hung a paper on which, among other th.ngs was written, 44 Prisoners to pay garnish or run the

Debtors hive a bushel of coals a day from about 12th No-rrrber to Lady Day: and £5: o: o a year by a legacy of j Herris from lands in Brentwood, paid by the rector cc r-: - her of the parish of Chelmsford on the 24th of December. Fra memorial hung up in the tap-room, it appears the h'trm was acknowledged by the testatrix 14th June 1746. — It was r-rrarctis in the iullices to grant debtors the same allowance as Aims; and very judicious to fix that allowance to a

I: rr.e re pain to be informed 1775, that there had been r: a. me ice for above a year part, except to condemned

There is 2 rex geo!, which exceeds the old one in strength &r. aincf: as much as in lpler.dour. The county, to their berctm, have frarei no co!h The magistrates cannot but kr.w tie plan. The prison was finished and occupied at the r are of r.v ah vift. It can therefore be of no service to offer a.-r remarks 1x0 rh s r-.v.r fabrick: only, the felons apart-r-eats berg errre. v car of bight from the gaoler's house, I beg arc a rc cbf.r.e, tha: a window might be made in his kitchen, w' mb weeii cvcrlcvk the felons court; and that the window a: me deerrrs a part-rent towards the street is highly improper, as at avrr-e fer irtrveucing at all times spirituous , tools

>.r- C: -c> arc n: t fririraous liquors, and the act for preserving health c: prisoners, not hung up.

TABLE OF FEES.

p'A: Cereril Qairter Seflons — a Table of Fees settled —

tr be r.are by: te Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol — pursuant to an Act — cteae ;i tar xvcci jear of — K. George II.

D.

T v^e'str x«r --w X'- vxi Sex: 1-5 of each debtor provided that no rv- - ro c X* pc? ~ ccc fcvJ, ccr more than mo beds in the

JX-C 'X'*r - 004

For

j

ESSEX.

221

£ S. D.

For the chamber-rent bed and bedding of each prisoner upon criminal process per iveck provided that no more than two be put into one bed nor more than two beds in one room -

For the turnkey's fee into gaol -

For the turnkey's fee out of Gaol -

For the gaoler's fee upon each prisoner's discharge

O36

O1O

O1O

0 13 4

Reviewed and confirmed by us the Justices of Assize this 19th Day of July 1/29.

R: Eyre Law: Carter.

Tho Bramjl

Tho Wolford John Che<

Signed by us Justices of Peace of and for the said County this 19th day of July Anno Dom. 1729.

Rob Abdy Henry Maynard Be>: j

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Chelmsford. On the ground floor a large work-room, a kitchen, and a lodging-room for men: over them rooms of the same size for women: two rooms for the Tick. Court small, and not secure: prisoners always kept within doors; and the rooms offensive, although the water is laid in Mr. Ford (the keeper) told me at one of my visits that many had been ill of the gaol fever, brought from the county gaol. His salary, ^30: under-keeper's, yTi6: no fees. Prisoners allowance, three pence a day;for which they have a pound and half of bread, and a quart of small beer; and three halfpence a day farther allowance to each sick prisoner. Coals, straw, brooms &c. ^4: 2: 6 a quarter. The employment of the prisoners is spinning, and the county has all the profit.

1774, Dec. 6, Prisoners 18. 1776, Nov. 20, Prisoners 21.

1775, Oa. 19, — 15. 1779, April 7, — 27.

Colchester. The castle, the property of Charles Gray, Esq. was formerly the county gaol. That part of it which is now the bridewell, has — first, the room for women, with a fire-place: on one side a room for men, with a window;

Chelmsford County Gaol.

Bridewells.

ESSEX.

Home Circuit.

Bridewells.

on another side two rooms for men, at a right angle with the former; a window in the farthermost. The partitions are iron-grates for light and air, from the window at each end of the right angle. Court little used by prisoners. No water: here was a well of fine water, but it has been lately arched over. No employment: allowance, three pence a day: straw, £2a year: firing, £2 a year. Keeper's salary, £30: no fees.

1774, Feb. 14, Prisoner 1. 1779, April 7, Prisoner 1.

1776, Nov. 19, — 3.

Newport. Built in 1775. The front is elegant, yet plain: in it are the keeper's apartments; and a room for the justices. Behind is the men's court; in the middle of which is a pump. On the farther side, a large work-room on the ground floor with a fire-place, and a smaller work-room over it: so that tob many need not work together. There is a lodging-room even with the upper work-room. On the left side of the court are two lodging-rooms on the ground floor, and two above. In all these lodging-rooms are boarded bedsteads. The keeper has a view of this court from two of his back windows. — Women have a room on the ground floor; and one over it, iof feet square. No fire-place. These, though they join to the 1 aft-mentioned rooms for men, have no communication with them: you go to them through one of the keeper's rooms: the court quite separate. But the rooms being too small for the number of women, at my last visit I found them in the men's ward. If two of the men's rooms were added to the women's, there might always be an entire reparation. No allowance: prisoners have what they earn. Straw, £2 a year. Firing in winter, two guineas. Keeper's salary, £25: no fees. Clauses

against spirituous liquors not hung up.

177^> Dec. 6, Prisoners 3.

1779, Sep. 26, — 9.

11 ai.sTF.i). This house is rented of the trustees of Martin's thuiity. Men and women have a separate work-room, and a ftp.u.uc lodging-room. There is a room for the sick. All

Home Circuit. ESSEX.

out of repair. A court which men use one part of the day, women another. No water. Keeper's salary,: no fees. Allowance, a pound and half of bread, and a quart of small beer, a day. The prisoners spin, but are not allowed any part of what they earn.

1776, Nov. 19, Prisoners 4.

1779, April 6, — 5.

Impressed Men 2.

Barking. A room for men, the; 15 feet by 10 ~;

7 feet high; two windows to the street. Another room, the back-gaol, for women; 13 feet inches by 11 feet; 8 feet high: one window about 2 feet square. They are planked all over: no chimneys: and both rooms are made offensive by sewers in them. Court not secure: prisoners have no use of it; nor any access to the pump. Allowance, three pence a day. Keeper's salary, £28: no fees. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Nov. 28, Prisoner 1.

1779, April 8, — 1.

Impressed Men 5.

Colchester Town Gaol and Bridewell.

A room for debtors. A strong ward for men: another for women; and now two rooms are added to the bridewell. Court very offensive, and not secure: no water: no straw. Allowance to criminals, three pence a day. Keeper's salary, £S. Fees, 2s. 6d.Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Nov. 19, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 2.

1779, April 7, — 0. — 4.

Harwich Town Gaol.

Two rooms towards the street; no chimneys: a back room called the dark gaol, and another with a fire-place. No court: no water: no sewer. Allowance, 1 d.'a day. Keeper's salary, jC 2* 8: o. Fees, 6r. Sd. No table.

1778, April 18, No prisoners.

KENT.

Bridewell.

224 KENT. Home Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at MAIDSTONE.

Maid- GAOLER, Philip DetUlin. stone. Salary, £60, instead of the tap.

Fees, Debtors, £o 12: 4.

Felons, o: 15: 4.

Transports, o: 15: o each, and the fees. Licence, none. See S.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a loaf once in two days {weight lib.

4 oz. Feb. 1776) and every day a quart of small beer. (See Remarks.) Garnish, Debtors, ^0: 3: 0.

Felons, 0: 1: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felonsic.

1774, April 13, 21, 31. 1776, Feb. 19, 22, 38.

1775, July25> i7» 26- 1779, April 16, 15, 23.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Hudson.

Duty, Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary, £30; lately augmented to £$o.

SURGEON, Mr. Waller. Salary, £50, for the gaol and bridewell.

Remarks. THIS gaol was erected in 1746, as appears by the date.

The rooms in the felons wards are sizeable;but the air is obstructed by wooden bars at the windows (three inches and a halt broad) instead of iron ones. There are three courts: one for debtors; one for men-felons; and one for women-felons. The two last are much too small; but may K lommodiously enlarged, by adding to them the adjacent court 1*! 1 U ^‘diwell. 7 hen also a chapel might be built; and ;Wl 7 l'n?cr r^rformed, as it now is, upon the stairs. The , n‘s^u“ro°rns have double doors: if one of them

In L 1 ' t»<H>r (as at the new gaol at Horlham) and

I in t tc day-ihnc, the rooms would freshen and be

Home Circuit. KENT.

better ventilated. There are two dungeons down eleven Heps for the condemned.

Felons are allowed yearly ten chaldron of coals: they have barrack beds *, and hop-bagging with straw; but no coverlets. This county has for years past been so considerate as to pay the fees of poor prisoners acquitted: and to transports call at affixes, who are entitled to the king's allowance of 2 6

a week, they continue the allowance which they had before trial. They also pay the gaoler's fees for those convicts. The felons said they wished for more bread j and would, if that were increased, be content with less beer. The baker who serves the felons fells thirteen loaves to the dozen; and debtors have amongst them every thirteenth loaf.

There is an alarm-bell; and a fail-ventilator.

£)n examining two sick prisoners, I found they had no irons; and the surgeon said the gaoler was always ready to take them off when he requelled it.

The clauses of the act against spirituous liquors arc hung up. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

TABLE OF FEES.

Kent, to ivit. A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler — at Maidstone — settled — at the General Quarter Sessions — holden — on Thursday the 12th day of July in the 24th year of — George II. — and in the year — 1750 pursuant to the direction of the Statute in that behalf provided.

S. D.

For the discharge from the said gaol of every prisoner committed for treason, felony or any offence against his majesty's peace to the gaoler or keeper - 0134

To turnkey on commitment of every such prisoner - 0 1 0

To him more on the discharge of every such prisoner - 0 1 0

Dn the commitment or coming into gaol of every prisoner in a civil action, to the said gaoler or keeper - 0 3 0

On the discharge of every such prisoner to the said gaoler or keeper f o 7 10 And to the turnkey - 0 1 6

Barrack bed* are low stages of boards, raised from the floor, and (loping from the wall towards the middle of the room; as in the barracks for soldiers.

f Those figures o 7 10 are written upon a rasure.

225

Maidstone County Gaol.

KENT.

Home Circuit.

Maidstone County Gaol.

BlltDI-

WILIII

For the use of bed bedding and Sheets for each of the said last-mendooed prisoners on the master's-side of the said prison foe the first night to the said gaoler or keeper - .006

And for every night after the first - 003

And if two such prisoners lye together in one bed then - 00a

For every such prisoner as shall chafe to be on the master's-side for the use of the bed, bedding and sheets the first night - 006

For every night after the first - 003

But if two such prisoners lye together then two-pence each - 004

If any such prisoner through poverty can only provide a couch, then to the said gaoler or keeper for chamber-rent week - 001

July lath 1750 Seen and allowed by us

Wm. Tinter P. Bottler Ed. Aujlen

Herb. Palmer Ja*. Colder Champness.

A True Copy.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Maidstone. A new prison: separate wards, areas, wark-fliops, and infirmaries for men and women: opposite windows to transmit fresh air. Keeper's salary, £20. The prisoners were not in it in 1776; but in 1779 I found it inhabited, dirty and offensive. The prisoners were at work, but they have no part of what they earn. The county allowance is three pence every day, Sundays excepted. Fees are 35. 6 d.No table. I saw two prisoners with the small

pox, lying on loose ft raw, and their only Covering was common mats.

1776, Feb. 19, Prisoners 2. 1779, April 16, 13.

Canterbury. Men and women separate. The latter have the back court in which their ward is. The <men have no court i but they have a hall or kitchen to the street, and three wards or night-rooms. Out of the keeper's garden or yard might be taken a court for the men. There is no water within reach of the men; yet I always found the prison remarkably clean. County allowance, two pennyworth

Home Circuit. KENT.

of bread a day. No employment. In 1776, the justices abolished fees 13;. 4^. and raised the salary from £25 to £40. Licence for beer.

1774, April 13, Prisoners 8.

1776, Feb. 17, — 13.

1776, May 25, Prisoners 6.

1779, April 16, — 4.

Dartford. This county bridewell, built in 1720, consists of two rooms: one for men, 21 feet by 17^: one for women, 14 feet square: both io feet high. No chimneys: offensive sewers; and the rooms dirty: no water: no straw: mats, but quite worn out. No court; though the keeper has a garden. His salary, £20: fees, 3*. no table. Allowance to those committed on suspicion of felony, two pence a day. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up.

The keeper told me, they had about two years ago, a bad fever j which himself and family, and every fresh prisoner caught. Two died of it. The prisoners are now well, and at work, upon a manufacture of flax-dressing and weaving sacks.

The above was the account of this prison in 1776; but in 1779, there were two courts taken from the keeper's garden, one for each sex, with pumps and sewers, and a room in the men*s court for the lick: but the wemen had no mats or any kind of bedding.

1776, April 24, Prisoners 6.

1779, April 15, 5.

Canterbury City Gaol,

Over the West-gate. One large day-room for men and women: and in each of the two towers, a small night-room. No court; and prisoners are seldom permitted to walk on the leads. Allowance, three pennyworth of bread a day. Keeper's salary, £5. Fees, debtors 6s. 8 felons 13*. 4: no table.

He keeps a public house adjoining, in which is a room or two for masterViide debtors. No regard is paid to the clause enjoining that “ once in the year at least" the gaols shall be white-washed.

1774, April 13, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 6.

1776, Feb. 17, — 3. — 2.

1779, April 16, — 2. — 2.

227

Bridewells.

KENT.

Home Circuit.

Rochester City Gaol,

Under the court-room. One day-room to the street; and two inner or night-rooms: all close and offensive. In the keeper's house is a room for such debtors as can pay for a bed; and another in which women-felons were kept when the assizes were held here. No court: no water accessible to prisoners. Allowance, two pence a, day. Keeper a sergeant: no salary: fees, 6x. no table. At my visit in 1779* I found two debtors who had been locked up some weeks in the close offensive room next the street. — The court-room was built, as appears by the date, in 1687, is probable, there has

been no alteration in the prison fmce that time.

1774, April 14, Debtor 1. Felons 0.

1776, May 25, — o. — O.

1779, April 15, — 2; — O.

Dover Castle,

For Debtors in the Cinque-Ports, i. e.

Mythy Romney, and

The Earl of Holderness was constable; now Frederick Lord North is constable, and Henry Wood bodar. Two rooms: no court: no water. Entrance fee,: 6: 8. Keeper is bailiff for the Cinque-Ports;salary, £30. His prison dirty: his apology for it was, that “ he had been absent some weeks on his business as an officer.” At my last visit the rooms were white-washed, and much cleaner than at my former visit.

1776, Feb. 17, Prisoners 4. 1779, April 17, 3.

Dover, Town Gaol.

One room of it is the bridewell. The gaol is two rooms on the ground floor, and two above. No fire-places. All close offensive; but at my last visit it was much cleaner, and

no

Home Circuit^ SUSSEX. 229

no company were drinking the re, as the new keeper has licence. The court not secure. Allowance, four pence a day. Keeper's salary, £10 and a chaldron of coals: fees, Ss. 2d, no table.

Debtor*. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons Sec.

WSiWytS* 2. 1776, May 25, 2, 3.

17 76, Feb. 17, 3, 4. 1779, April 17, i, 1.

SUSSEX.

COUNTY GAOL at HORSHAM.

GAOLER, Charles Cooper. Horsham*

Salary, £120 of kfe; in lieu of all fees.

Transports, 2: 2: 0 each.

Licence, Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two pennyworth of bread a day: 2

Garnish, £0: 6: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons tec, Debtors. Felons &c.

1773, Dec. *7> 7* 1776, Feb. 22, 13, 8.

1774, Sept. 29, 5, 13.* 1779, March 9, 12, 6.

CHAPLAIN, None. But the clergyman who attends condemned criminals has £5 a year.

SURGEON, lately dead.

Salary, £5 for felons.

THE rooms are too small, except the free-ward for debtors. Re mat. sr, No straw: no court; and yet ground enough for one behind the gaol. Transports convicted at quarter sessions, have as

Sec a note In page vj,

Horsham County Gaol.

Bbidk-

wiui,

SUSSEX. Home Circuit.

those condemned at assize, the king's allowance of is. 6d. a week. Lent assize at East-Grinstead j where there is no prison: summer assize, at Lewes and Horiham alternately.

The new gaol that was building in 1776, is now Sniffled. The duke of Richmond, in concurrence With the other gentlemen of the county, interested himself much in this affair. The situation is judiciously chosen; and the plan is such as appears to me particularly well suited for the purpose. It does credit to those who superintended the work, being every way fub-ffantial and ffrong j and each felon is to have a separate room 10 feet by 7, and9feet high to the crown of the arch. They are all arched with brick, to prevent danger and confusion in case of fire. To each room are two doors, one of them iron-grated.

TABLE OF FEES.

Suffix, A List of Fees taken by the Gaoler of the said County.

Upon the discharge of every debtor

The flierifTs fee thereupon

Turnkey thereupon -

For every peck of charcoal

For every fagot -

For every quart of small beer

For lodgings in the gaoler's beds by the week

Upon the discharge of every felon, to the gaoler

£. S.

1'

o 11 o a o o o o o o

O 2 X 2

4

5

6 J

1

V

o

4

Allowed and settled at the General Quarter Sessions held at Petworth the 3d Day of October 1737 By us

John Butler R. Mill.Jewka Wm Grafwickt

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Horsham. The bridewell which was in this town is now

discontinued.

Lewes. Here men and women have similar but separate apartments j a kitchen, five bed-rooms 10 feet square, a

Home Circuit. SUSSEX.

work-shop, courts &c. Keeper's salary, £30. Fees, 6r. Sd. no table. The produce of the prisoners work for three years preceding 1776, was not twenty shillings a year;although there were in the respe<Stive years committed pri-. foners 45 — 85 — 65. At my last visit I found no prisoners at work; but as there were chalk, mallets, iieves &c. in the men's work-room, it seems that they are sometimes employed in making whiting. When they work, the keeper has all the profits. The county allowance is a twopenny loaf (the weight was 1 lb. 5 oz.) The keeper has no view from his house into the rooms or courts of the prison.

1776, Feb. 21, Prisoners 5.

1779, April 19, — 8.

Petworth. This bridewell has two rooms: one 17 feet by 10, the other 18 by 9, 6 feet high: too final 1 for the general number of prisoners. No chimney: no court: no water: no employment. Allowance,a two pound loaf every day, to be weighed by the keeper with scales and a weight ordered to the house for that purpose by the justices. Keeper's salary lately augmented from £12 to 20. Fees, 6j. 8 no table. But now the keeper's salary is augmented to £30 in lieu of fees.

The keeper told me (in September 1774) that “ all his “ prisoners upon discharge, were much weakened by the “ close confinement, and small allowance.”

Thomas Draper and William Godfrey were committed the 6th of January 1776; the former died the iith, the other the 26th of the same month. William Cox, committed the 13th of January, died the 23d. None of them had the gaol fever. I do not affirm that these men were famished to death: it was extreme cold weather. However, since that time, the allowance of bread is doubled. For this the prisoners are indebted to the kind attention of the duke of Richmond.

1774, Sept. 28, Prisoners 4-

1776, Feb. *3» — 8.

1779, March 8, 2.

Q.+

231

Bridewell.

232

SUSSEX.

Hoim Circuit.

f If '

Bridewell.

Battle. Two rooms 14 feet by 12^; in one of which is a chimney; in the other, the stocks. Court not fecare. No water but in the keeper's garden. Allowance, seven farthings a day j the fame, the old keeper said, in the 30 years of his time, and in the many yearB of his father's time. Salary, £10. Fees, 3J. 4 d.

1779, April 18, No prisoners.

Chichester City Gaol and Bridewell,

Over the East-gate. Has five rooms; and a court, now with a pump. Allowance to felons &c. two pence a day. Gaoler, a fergcant at mace; salary, ^5: fees, debtors, 6f. 8</. no table.

1774, Sept. 28, Debtor 1, Felons &c. 0.

1776, Feb. 25, — 2. — 1.

1779, March 8, — o. — 0.

Rye Town Gaol.

An old tower. One of the three lower rooms is about 17 feet diameter, with a fire-place; the other two about 6 feet: above stairs are three rooms of the same dimensions. Allowance to prisoners, three halfpence a day. Fees, 31. 4 No table. Salary, none. Keeper, a fergcant at mace.

1779, April 18, No prisoners.

SURRY.

jL

Home Circuit.

SURRY.

*33

COUNTY GAOL in SOUTHWARK.

GAOLER, Benjamin Hall.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 12: 4.

Felons, o: 15: 4.

Transports, (See Remarks.)

Licence, Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 1 three halfpennyworth of bread a day Felons, 5 (weight 17 , Dec. 1776, and

Aug. 1779.)

Legacies. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 4: 6.

Felons, 0: 1: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons &c«

1774, Feb. 9, 30, 60. 1776, Dec. 25, 18, 15.

1776, March 4, 19, 59. 1779, Aug. 9, 23, 14.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Dyer.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Meflfrs. and Co.

Salary, £20, for this gaol, and the bridewell in St.

George's Fields $ and £5 for travelling charges to report at the quarter felons, the Rate of the prisoners.

THE New Gaol, besides the gaoler's house, and the tap- Remarks. room, has — for master's-side debtors, a parlour, and four other sizeable rooms; and for common-side debtors, three good rooms. Mr. Hall prevents their being crowded with the wives and children of the debtors. For these prisoners, there is a courj:; into which felons are not admitted; except a few, whom the gaoler has reasons for indulging with that distinction.

The ward for men-felons has fix rooms on three floors: in these they sleep. There is a court belonging to it. — The ward for women-felons has two lower rooms, two above and a

SOUTHWARK.

*3

Southwark County Gaol.

SURRY. Home Circuit.

court belonging to it. In the two upper rooms, arc put malefa&ors of either sex condemned to die. I have here noted 18 rooms: yet they are not sufficient for the number of prisoners. Mr. Hall is sometimes obliged to put men-felons into some rooms of the women's ward. In so close a prison situated in a populous neighbourhood, I did not wonder to fee in March 1776 several felons sick on the floors. No bedding nor straw: no infirmary: no chapel: divine service is performed in the parlour; which is too small for the purpose; about 16 feet square. The act for preserving the health of prisoners is on a painted board. The clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up.

If the county do not build a new gaol, more roomy and airy, and in a better situation, it would at least be adviseable to add to this an infirmary; which, with a chapel under it, they may build on the vacant ground where formerly was the house of correction.

Transports have not the king's allowance of 2s. 6 a week. For these a merchant contracts with the county to take them at the gaol: the gaoler fends them to the ftiip, attended by his servants j and receives from the merchant 10 6 for each

prisoner so condqcted.

Lent assize is at Kingston: summer assize at Guildford and Croydon alternately. At this last town there is no prison.

There is hung up in the gaol a printed list of sixteen legacies and donations. The dates of the first fix are 1555, — 71, — 76, — 84, --97, — 98. Three are in the next century, viz. 1609, — 38, — 56. The other seven are not dated: and one of them noted on the lift, has not been received since 1726. There are also other articles which seem to need inspection. Two of the charities are for debtors expressly: the others are not so distinguished;but debtors have them all. In the title of the paper it is said, “ The gaol was formerly called the JVbite Lion Prison.” The common seal of the prison is a lion rampant. One of the legacies above-mentioned was bequeathed by Eleanor Gwynn, from which are sent to this prison once in eight weeks, 65 penny loaves. Common-fide debtors have this as well as the preceding gifts.

Home Circuit. SURRY.

At my last visit the gaol was clean, and none of die prisoners sick.

Here I would just mention, that all the rags left by the felons after- every assize, ought to be immediately burned, or rather buried j as they only serve to harbour vermin, dirt, and infection.

Surrey ,to wit, A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler — of the common Gaol or Prison in Southwark — for any Prisoner committed — Chamber-Rent there or Discharge — pursuant to the Statute — made — 12th — of the reign of onr Sovereign Lord George III. Sec, and in the year of our Lord 1772.

£. S, D,

For the discharge from the said gaol of every prisoner committed for treason, or felony or any offence against his majesty's peace, to the gaoler or keeper - 0134

To the turnkey on every commitment of such prisoner - oxo

To the turnkey on the discharge of every such prisoner - 010

On the commitment or coming into gaol of every prisoner In a civil action, to the said gaoler or keeper - 030

On the discharge of every such prisoner, to the said gaoler or keeper o And to the turnkey - 0x6

For the use of bed bedding and fheett for each of the said mentioned prisoners on the master-side of the said prison, for the first night, to*the said gaoler or keeper - >006

And for every night after the first - o o

But if two such prisoners lye together in one bed, then one penny halfpenny each - . - 003

To the clerk of the papers on every discharge of any prisoner in a civil

action - oxo

For every such prisoner as fttall chuse to be on the master-side for the use

of bed and bedding and fhcets the first night - 006

For every night after the first - 003

But if two such prisoners lye together in one bed, then two pence each 004 If any such prisoner through poverty can only provide a couch, then to the said gaoler or keeper for chamber-rent for week . o o x

Seen and allowed by us

A. Onslow Wm JoliffeHaymond N, Htriidge.

COUNTY

*3S

Southwark County Gaol.

Bridewells.

SURRY. Home Circuit.

I

COUJsTTY BRIDEWELLS.

St* George's Fields. Built 1772. Separate wards and courts for men and women. In the men's ward, twQ rooms, and a workshop (about 20 feet square) below; apd three rooms above: in one of these are beds at 2 6 a

week. The women's ward has, below, one room, and a workshop (about 20 feet square) and three rooms above: in one of them beds at 2 s. 6d.a week. There is a separate room for faulty apprentices. All the rooms are planked. Window-shutters, and iron bars: no glass. There is no infirmary. In March 1776, I saw several lick on the floors: the county allows no bedding nor straw. In April, only one sick, on a bed which he paid for. In December, a woman sick on the floor. The rooms are dirty: in two or three of them were fowls. Prisoners allowance, three halfpence a day in bread ( weight 1776, and 1779,

17 ounces.) No firing. The fines or convicts are with the other prisoners, and have the same allowance. They all are entirely without employment. Keeper a sheriffs officer: salary, £25: licence for beer and wine. The clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are both hung up.

1776, March 14, Prisoners 25. 1776, Dec. 25, Prisoners 29. --- April 30, — 24. 1779, Aug. 9, 44.

Of the twenty-nine prisoners in Dec. 1776, were, four women fenteftced for ten years, one woman for three years, three men for three years, four men for two years, three men for one year.

In the men's court is a board, on which is painted as

follows:

Fees to be taken by the Keeper of this^Prison.

C S. D.

Of every prisoner for ward dues - o o

On the discharge of every prisoner committed - 04*

risoners brought in by a justice's warrant and discharged - 0*6

No 8arn»lh to be taken from one prisoner to another by order of the keeper.

Thit pnbibit'm it

Kingston

1

Home Circuit.

SURRY.

*37

Kingston upon Thames. This bridewell, built in 1775, has a house for the keeper; and separate war^ls (quite di(Hn£t buildings) for men and women: with separate courts, work-lhops, pumps &c. Each ward has two lower rooms; three steps above the ground; and two chambers. The men's rooms are near 17 feet by 14, and full9high: the women's, about 15 feet square, and9high. Every room planked all round: a chimney in each; and two windows, with (hut-ters and iron bars, no glass. The men's court 59 feet by 50: the women's, 46 by 36. Prisoners pay a shilling entrance for the use of them. There is also a room built quite separate for faulty apprentices} about 8 feet by n, and full 8 high;it has a fire-place.

It is pity that to a prison ih other respects so commodious, the gentlemen did not add an infirmary. Using any of the rooms for that purpose, will not prevent the communication of small pox &c.

County allowance to prisoners, a three halfpenny loaf a a day ( weight in 1779, 17 ounces and a quartern) No bedding. They were at work, beating hemp. The keeper has the profit of it; a salary of ^25; and fees, 3 4 no table.

At the time of my visit in 1779, the act for preserving the health of prisoners was hung up, though but little attention paid to it. The prison was dirty, and the prisoners unemployed;the keeper informing me that they were not committed for hard labour, though one was imprisoned for a year.

One of the prisoners who was committed for baflardy, not finding sureties, had been Tent back hither, from the preceding quarter sessions at Ryegate; where there is no prison. I had heard of the hardships suffered by prisoners when conveyed for trial to such towns; and inquired of this man, what was his situation at Ryegate ? He said that “ he and fifteen others were confined there two or three days in a very small room; and almost: fuffbeated.” The keeper who was present confirmed the fa£l.

Quarter Sessions are held Lady-Day at Ryegate, Mid-summer at Guildford, Michaelmas at Kingston, Christmas at St. Margaret's Hill.

1776, April 26, Prisoners 4. 1779, March 11, 6.

Guildford Bridewell,

SURRY.

Home Circuit.

*38

Bridewell.

Guildford Bridewell, in 1776, had four rooms, beildes the infirmary (lately a liable) and the condemned room. Yet when the assize is held here, and prisoners are brought from Southwark, it is much crowded. But in 1779, three new rooms up stairs had been lately added, and sewers below. A court, for the use of which every prisoner pays entrance-money one shilling. Two rooms have in the roof an iron-grate lattice, about 5 feet by 4, and an open turret above;very useful for freshening those rooms. Allowance, a threepenny loaf every other day ( we, 1776, pounds.)

No bedding nor ft raw. None were at work. Keeper's salary, £25: fees, 3 s.4 d.no table. The clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are both hung up.

1773, Dec. 17, Prisoners 6. *779* March 9, 3.

1776, Feb. 24,-6.

Kingston Town Gaol.

Two lower rooms, and chambers; the ceilings very low. A court, not secure. The rooms are dirty; and at the Lent afEze crowded with prisoners. Gaoler keeps a public house. No salary. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. 1776, April 26, No prisoners. 1779, March 11, Debtors 3.

In the Town-hall there is a table of , and various

other fees. It is dated I Oth Decemr. 1603 \ and confirmed by the high steward of the town, the king's attorney, general steward of the court, the two bailiffs, the recorder &c.

£. S.D.

For every one arrested wanting sureties and lent to gaol - o a o

For every one Cent to ward upon commandement or arrested for a trifle or being very poor not above - o o

For the fee of the irons of every one committed for felony or suspicion

of felony or for any other heinous crime - 0 z o

I am tempted to transcribe many more articles of this curious ancient table: I cannot omit the two or three following.

For arresting any freeman of this town inhabitant within the watch 006 For the attorney's fee upon evidence delivering to a jury, when there is

no other counfall - 016

Every counsellor's fee in this court - 068

Norfolk Circuit. BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. 239

COUNTY GAOL at AYLESBURY.

GAOLER, IThomas . Ami.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.) StflY,

Fees, Debtors, £0: 15: 10. Felons, 0: 18: 4. Transports, (See Remarks.) Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,' Allowance, (See Remarks.) Garnish, Debtors, £0: 8: 0. Felons, 0: 2: 6.

N umber. Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons Sec,

1773, Nov. 27, 6, 17. 1776, Nov. 2, 7, 13.

1774, Nov. 12, 4, 8. 1779, Feb. 25, 6, 12.

1776, Jan. 3, 10, 10.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Hopkins.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £40-

SURGEON, Mr. Ludgate.

Salary, £20 for debtors, felons, and the bridewell.

ONE court. A hall for debtors; and sundry rooms for the R

raafter's-side: but no free ward. In the felons day-room is an oven for purifying the clothes. A small night-room for women-felons. Two condemned rooms. In the interval of my first and second visit, six or seven died of the gaol distemper.

At my visits in 1776, after the appointing Mr. Ludgate, all the prisoners were well. At my last visit, two men sentenced for three years had continued here two years and a half; one of them was much emaciated by confinement without work.* No infirmary. Divine service is performed in the shire-hall, which joins to the prison. No table of fees. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and a €tfor preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Mr. Smith contracts to supply debtors and felons with a pound of bread a day, and two hot dinners a week; and to convey transports to London; for £jo a year. At summer assize, prisoners are moved from hence to Buckingham.

The furgeop and gaoler both infoimed me, that three men brought from Hertford gaol the Lent assize 1778, had their toes mortified; which being similar co what 1 ooee saw in that gaol, I could the more cafiljr credit it.

COUNTY

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. Norfolk Circuit.

f ii

240

BllDl-

WBi.Lt.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Aylesbury. The two work-rooms, and the lodging-rooms, arefmall: one of the latter only 5i feet by 4, and 6 feet high. A court in front only 8'- feet wide, lately enclosed from the spacious court of the keeper behind the county gaol. Mr. Smith (the county gaoler) is keeper; salary, ^30. He puts in a deputy, who serves for living rent free. Prisoners allowance, one pound of bread a day.

1774, Nov. 12, Prisoners 2. 1776, Nov. 2, Prisoner 1.

1776, Jan. 3, — 3. 1779, Feb. 25, — 3.

Newport Pagnel. Two cells in the back court of a public house, 7 feet by 6*, and 6 feet high. The apertures in the doors 10 inches by 9. No water: no allowance: no employment. Keeper lives distant. Salary, 20. He pays

two guineas rent for the cells.

1779, March 24,') No Prisoners. One or two had lately Oft. 13,5 escaped.

West-Wycomb. This prison was lately removed from High-Wycomb, and the keeper was dismissed at the Michaelmas sessions 1778 for inattention. It consists of two garrets in the present keeper's house. The windows are almost closed up by strong planks nailed across for security: his salary, j^20. 1779, April 23, No Prisoners.

Buckingham Town Gaol.

Two rooms below; one of which is the bridewell: the other for felons 154 feet by 12. Over these are two rooms for debtors. No water. Gaoler no salary. Keeper's salary, £2* — Over the gate on a board is this inscription: “ The Right Honourable Richard Grenville Temple Lord Viscount Cobham caused this edifice to be erected at his own expense for the use of this town and county: The summer assizes being restored to this place and fixed here by act of parliament in the year 1748.”

1779, Oct. 14, No prisoners but a raving lunatic.

BEDFORD-

Norfolk Circuit. BEDFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at BEDFORD. GAOLER, Thomas Howard.

Salary, none.

Fees>

Transports, If only one, £6: if two, £5 each: all above two, £4 each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, two quartern-loaves a week each.

Felons, two halfpeck-loaves a week each. Garnish, Debtors, £0: 5: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felon*

1773, " “ 5 to I0* 6 to 9.

1776, Feb. 12, 8. 5.

1779, Oct. 16, 7. 2. Deserters 2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. i/^.

Duty, Sunday and Thursday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Gadsby.

Salary, £12 for the gaol and bridewell.

IN this prison there is a day-room for debtors, which is used as a chapel; and three or four lodging-rooms: for felons, two day-rooms, one for men, the other for women, without fire-places: two dungeons, down 11 steps, and often very damp. Five pounds a year is allowed to the gaoler for straw, which is not on the floors, but on frames or bedsteads, The justices in winter, upon application, grant coals both to debtors and felons.* The coujt is common to both, and small. No apartment for the gaoler.

Clauses of the ati against spirituous liquors are not hung up. I was, when sheriff, culpably ignorant of that act. No infirmary. About twenty years ago the gaol fever was in this

1 have mentioned the necessity of an allowance of firing in bridewells, but perhaps have not sufficiently infilled on it in the general remarks on gaols. I therefore take occasion here to observe, that this is not only what humanity demands in our climate, but that it is essential to the preservation of the health of prisoners, by promoting the circulation of air, and preventing those mortifications of the feet to which they are so liable. I well know, that the want of firing joined to scanty provision has been the cause of great mortality in our prison* storing the winter.

Brnrotn.

Rt MASKS.

!>42

Bedford

County Gaol.

Bridewell.

BEDFORDSHIRE. Norfolk Circuit*. 241

prison: some died there, and many in the town; *mong whom was Mr. Daniel the surgeons, who attended the prisoners. His successor, Mr. Gadsby, judiciously changed the medicines from sudorifics (generally used before) to bark and cordials: and a fail-ventilator being soon after put up, the gaol has been free from the fever almost ever since.

This prison is kept very clean; but the act for preserving the health of prisoners is not hung up.

Fees on a printed paper, signed by the late Gaoled, as follows:

All persons that come to this place, either by warrant, commitment, or verbally; must pay before discharged, fifteen shillings and four pence to the gaoler, and two shillings to the turnkey.

Richardson.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BEDFORD,

Consists of three rooms about 134 feet by ni, on the ground floor: no fire-place: the court 36 feet by 24: no water accessible to the prisoners. The prison clean. — Keeper's salary, £30: no fees.

1776, Feb. 13, Prisoners 3.

1779, O&. 16, — 2.

Bedford Town Gaol.

Two new rooms. No apartment for the gaoler. No court: no water.

1779, 0&. *6, No prisoners.

HUNTING-

Norfolk Circuit. HUNTINGDONSHIRE*.

*43

COUNTY GAOL at HUNTINGDON.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

Henry Blane, afterwards Robert,now Huntine-

John Randall.

none.

Debtors, £o: 12: 6.

Felons, o: 15: 10.

If only one, £12-, if more, £9 each: he paying the cleric of assize a guinea for each.

Beer,

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, four halfquartern-loaves a week. Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons4c. Debtors. Felons&c.

1773, Nov. S> 7> ¥ 1776, Sep. 27, 3,

1774, Jan. 7> 3- *779> — 22, 11,

1775, Nov. 9> 4> 5- Deserters 4.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Brock. Now no Chaplain. (S« Remark.) SURGEON, Mr. Hunt, now Mr. Perkins.

Salary, £5 5 o.

THIS gaol is also the County Bridewell and Gaol. Remarks* For debtors, a day-room or kitchen; and over it a large lodging-room. Near it is a day-room for felons: and down9steps a dungeon for men-felons j in which is a small condemned room. In'another place, down 7 steps, is a dungeon for women-felons: the floor of it level with the court; in which is the bridewell. This has two rooms below for men; and two above for women. The prison and court are too small: but I always found the whole remarkably clean, except at my last visit. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. No infirmary. Salary for the bridewell, ^24: 16: o; for the town gaol, ^3. — Straw, £\: 16: o a year.

I was sorry to hear at my visit in 1776, that Mr. Brock, the late chaplain, who officiated very constantly twice a week,

*4*

Huntingdon County Gaol.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE. Norfolk Circuit.

and had a salary of £20,was dismissed. He would have continued his attendance, without the salary; but an order was made expressly forbidding it.

TABLE OF FEES.

Huntingdonshire. A Table of the ancient accustomed Fees demanded taken and received time immemorial by the Gaoler for the time being of his Majesty's Gaol in the Town of Huntingdon and for the County of Huntingdon as well for Civil Prisoners as Criminal Prisoners.

As to Civil Prisoners,

For the dismission fee for each debtor. - to the keeper £'S.D. - 6 10 0

For the like. - to the turnkey O ft 6

For debtors bed per meek - Oft 4

For the bed per week if two debtors lie together - 0 3 6

As to Criminal Prisoners,

For the dismission fee of each criminal prisoner discharged out of custody, either by the magistrates, or by the courts of assize or session For the like to the turnkey -

For the bed per meek to each fine trespasser or felon For the bed per meek, if two lye together

o «J 4 o a 6 036 048

Robtrt Nunn Keeper of the County Gaol of Huntingdonshire

Oct. 14. 1774.

There is a rasure, which cancels the name of the former gaoler enry Blane, and the date when he signed.

CAMBRIDGE

Norfolk Circuit.. CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

MS

COUNTY GAOL, CAMBRIDGE CASTLE

GAOLER, Simeon

Salary, £12: 14: 0.

Fees, Debtors,: 14: 8.

Cambridge.

Felons, o: 10: 8.

Transports, £6: 6: o each: he paying the clerk of assize £1: 1: 0 for each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, two pence a day,

Garnish, Debtors, £0 15: 4.

Felons, 0: 1: 3.

Number, Debtors. Felons ate. Debtors. Felons ate,

1773, Nov. 4, 8, 2. 1776, Sep. 27, 10, o.

1774, Dec. 13, 6, 4. 1779, Sep. 23, 21, 2.

1776, Feb. 9, 8, 6.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Prince,

Salary, none } he makes a bill,

THE prison is the gate of the old castle. Below are two Remarks. strong rooms; one for men-felons; the other for women. You go up 22 Hone Heps on the outside to the debtors apartments.

On the first floor is a room for the turnkey} a large kitchen; and two or three other rooms. Above them are five rooms and a condemned room. All the rooms are sizeable. — Clauses of act against spirituous liquors hung up, by a written order of Thomas Cockran, Esq. sheriff. — The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Straw, twenty shillings a year. The castle-yard is spacious, but not fafe$ and prisoners have not the use of it. In it is the gallows.

Debtors have some relief from legacies and donations paid by several colleges: and twenty shillings a year, deducting land-tax, from an estate at Croxton in this county. No memorial in the prison.

*3

Cambridgeshire,

Cambridge

COONTT

Gaol*

Bpibe-

vm.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE. Norfolk Circuit.

Cambridgeshire. The General Quarter Sessions of the Peace — held at the Shire-hall in Cambridge — the 19th — of April in the 5th year of Geo. Ill — 1765 Before Edward Leeds Hale Wortham and W°

Howell Ewen Esqrs Justices &c.

A TABLE OF FEES

Settled — pursuant to a late Act passed iti the 2d — of George II. Intituled, An Act for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors &c. — to be hung up publickly in the Prison of the Castle of Cambridge.

£.S.D.

To the gaoler for the commitment fee to be paid at the time of com.

mitment, only - 054

To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner to be paid at the time

of his discharge, only - 054

To the sheriff for the discharge of every prisoner to be paid on such discharge - o a o

To be paid for the weekly rent of an entire chamber, with one bed only,

and clean linnen - . - 0*0

And in case more prisoners are put into a room, so that there is occasion for more beds in the same chamber, Then there shall be paid for the tife of the chamber, and of every bed and lirinen and cloaths belonging to it the sum of - --016

Edward Leeds Hale Wortham Wm H Ewen,

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at CAMBRIDGE

Is in the castle-yard; and joins to the gaoler's house. It now consists of two work-rooms (in which was a quantity of hemp) and over them two rooms; one for men, with four cages 6 I feet by 4*; and the other for women, with two cages. Mr. Saunders the county gaoler is keeper: salary, 2. He is attentive and humane. The prisoners have the whole profit of their work.

1774, Dec. 13, Prisoners 4. 1776, Sep. 27, Prisoners 1.

1776, Feb. 9, — 6. 1779, Sep. 23, — 7.

There are also at Cambridge the

1 own Gaol. Below is a room for criminals, the;about 21 feet by 7. The prisoner, whom I saw there in 1776,

was

Norfolk Circuit* CAMBRIDGESHIRE*

was a miserable object: he had been confined some weeks: no allowance. — The prisoners receive relief from several Of the colleges.

Above are rooms for debtors and criminal^, one of which is called the <age» No court: no water accessible to prisoners. Clauses| against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Gaoler no salary. Licence for beer.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felons&c.

1774, Dec. 13, 2, 3. 1776, Sep. 28, 1, 1.

1776, Feb. 9, 2, o. 1779, Sep. 23, I, 2.

An Account of the Fees that have been anciently and customarily paid to the Gaoler or Keeper of the Tolbooth Prison in the Town of Cambridge, viz,

' For every debtor* S. D.

The commitment fee - 068

The withdraught or discharging fee which is paid afterwards to

the mayor at every port - ; o 1 o

For the care of the prisoner and chamber week - 0 a 6

The 17 January 1765 /.

At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held for the Town of Cambridge — We the Justices — of the said Town — having reviewed the abovesaid Table of Fees, do allow and confirm the fame

W Whijkint Mayor E Leeds Elias Sowsler King H'bittred Wm Norfolk W H

Town Bridewell. On the ground floor, one room for men, 21 feet by 6 j and two lodging-rooms for women,9feet by 5. In these are lately put bedsteads for straw or coverlets. There is a dungeon or dark room for the refractory.* Above is a work-room. 19 feet square, for women. In the spring 1779, seventeen women were confined in the day-time, and some of them at night, in this room, which has no fire-place or fewer. This made it extremely offensive, and occasioned a fever or sickness among them, which alarmed the Vice-chancellor, who ordered all of them to be discharged. Two or three die4 , R 4 within

*47*

Cambridge.

14$

Cambridge

Bridewell.

Ilt.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE. No*rdi* Cmctfnv

within a few days. There are now added two rooms, in one of which are five cages about 7 feet square: no fire-place.

There is a small court of no use to the prisoners, because not secure. No water.

College, or vice-chancellor prisoners, have four pence on Sunday, to prevent the necessity of their working on that day as formerly. Those of them that are ill, have threepences day. No allowance of bread for town prisoners. Keeper's salary, /30: no fees. Straw,: 1: o a year.

The bridewell Hands in the back yard of the keeper's honfe; which was bought and endowed for the encouragement of wool-combers and spinners of this town. The basis of the institu-tion was a legacy of the famous carrier Thomas Hobson. To answer the intention, the keeper appointed is a clothier: he employs not only several hands upon the foundation of the charity, but many others \ among them his prisoners. His falaryJs paid out of the charity.

1774, Dec. 13, Prisoners 3. 1779* Sep. 23, Prisoners 6,

1776, Sep. 28, — 7. and one lunatic.

ELY GAOL.

GAOLER, John All day.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, 5 3*

Felons, o: 13: 4.

Transports, £5 each Licence, Beer.

prisoners.

none.

Debtors, £0: 15: 3.. Felons, o: 13: 4.

Garnish, £0;1 Number, Debtor

1774>:

l> £o: 1: 4.

r* Debtors.Felons ice.

' 28, 7, I.

*3> 7* i-

Debtors. Felon# ,

^ec. 13, 1, 2. 1779* ^p. 23:

*eb. 9, u, 3. and on.

and one lunatic.

THIS

Norfolk Circuit. CAMBRIDGESHIRE. *49

THIS gaol, the property of the bishop, who is lord of the Bit. franchise of the isle of Ely, was in part rebuilt by the late Rxmaik*, bishop about fourteen years ago; upon complaint of the cruel method*which, for want of a safe gaol, the keeper took to iecure his prisoners.

For master's-side debtors three rooms up {fairs: a room on the same floor for condemned felons. Below stairs is the felons day-room; and their cell or night-room, 18 feet by 10, with a window about a foot square. There is a court for felons, with an offensive fewer. No water. — For debtors a court with a pump j but no free ward. No infirmary. No straw. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and act for preferring the health of prisoners not hung upf Keeper a sheriff's officer for the isle, and for the county of Cambridge. No table of fees.

Assize in this isle, of late, twice a year, viz. Lent at Ely,

Summer at Wisbeach.

BRIDEWELLS.

Ely. One room below for men; and two above for women. Bunt. The court not secure; and prisoners always locked up within WSLLS* doors. In February 1776, a woman sick: no Apothecary.

— No allowance. Clauses of acte against spirituous liquors

not hung up. Keeper's salary, £10: no fees.

1774, Dec. 13, Prisoners 2. 1776, Sep. 28, Prisoner r.

1776, Feb. 9, — 3. 1779, Sep. 23, — 2.

Wisbeach. This is also a gaol. Four rooms. No court: no water accessible to prisoners. Allowance, a penny a day: straw, twenty shillings a year. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, ^16: no fees. — This prison might be improved on the keeper's garden.

1776, Feb. 3, Prisoners 2.

1779, March 29, Debtors 2. Impressed Men 3.

— Oa. 10, — 1. Felon &c. - 1.

This was by chaining them down on their backs upon a floor, across which were fever a 1 iron bars; with an iron collar with (pikes about their necks, and a heavy iron bar over their legs. An excellent magistrate, Janies Collyer, Esq. presented an account of the case, accompanied with a drawing, to the king; with which his majesty was much affected, and gave immediate orders for a proper inquiry and rodrefs.

NORFOLK.

NORFOLK;

Norfolk. Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL, NORWICH CASTLE.

Norwich. GAOLER, George Gy nne

Salary, none: he pays the under-sheriff 31 *. 10: O

per annum.

Fees, Debtors, £o *.7: 8.

Felons, o *. 13: 4.

Transports, 5; 15 *. 6 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 7 a two-penny loaf each per day (weight Felons, $ in Dec. 1774.,- ao ounces) and every week in common a ftoiie of cheese *, in winter twelve hulKeli of coals, in summer fix hufhels.

Garnifti, Debtors, £0: 5: 0.

Felons, 0: 1: o.

Number, Debtors.Felons- Debtors.¥eteni be.

1774, Feb. 1, 30, 14. 1776, Nov. 17, iS, 3a.

--- Dec. 10, 16, 15. 1779, March 31, 14, 29.

1776, Feb, 5, 29, 16.

CHAPLAIN,&ev. Mr. W

Duty, Friday. ' '

Salary, £3°* '

SURGEON, Mt. Palgrave,now Mr. Brown.

Salary, now £40.

He marks. THE cattle is situated on the summit of a hill. That part Which is called the upper,has ten rooms for matte rVf\de debtors; and leads for them to walk on. The gaol has several rooms for debtors, felons &c. A fma\l area in the middle of the gaol, in which are lately made (bme improvements *, such as a pump, a convenient bath, and some room over it. There is a dungeon down a ladder of 8 tteps, f< men-felons \ in which has often been an inch or two of watt and only a small room for women-felons , so that they can be separate from the men, when decency would most of all

c

Norfolk Circuit. NORFOLK. 251

quire it. At my visit in 1779, there were barrack beds in the No»wic« dungeon. There are two airy rooms for the Tick 5 so distinct from the rest of the prison, that there is no danger of spreading any infection from thence. The gaoler is humane, and respected by his prisoners. These, felons as well as debtors, fell at the grates of their separate day-rooms, laces, garters, purses, nets &c. of their own making.

There is a nurse or matron to attend the sick; and provide for them, when the surgeon orders it, broth, gruel, milk-pottage and extra-firing. She orders the straw, which is not farmed, but paid for per load by the county. It is also her business to fee that the prisoners be duly served with their allowance of bread, which is remarkably good. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. At Lent assize, prisoners are moved from hence to Thetford; and put into a dungeon which is described in that place. In 1779, twenty-seven prisoners were carried thither, and confined four nights, most of them in the dungeon.

Mrs. Frances Kempe formerly bequeathed certain charities to the poor of Norwich and Heyden; and a stipend for preaching three sermons a year. For payment, Ihe bound an estate in Heyden left her by her father John Mingay, Esq. Among the charities were some to prisoners in this castle, and in the city gaol. These have for many years past received nothing j although the legacies are paid to the other objects.

TABLE OF FEES.

Norfolk. A Table of the Rates Fees and Allowances to betaken by every Gaoler or Keeper of any Gaol or Prison the said

County — settled — at the General Quarter Session — holden by Adjournment at the Castle of Norwich — 31 July — 3d of George H —

1729 — in pursuance — of a late Act for Relief of Debtors &c.

That is to say

£. S. D.

For the commitment or coming into gaol of any prisoner for debt 050 For chamber rent where the gaoler finds bedding and linnen, and a

prisoner hath a bed to him or herself, per week - 020 Where there are two in a bed not exceeding per week - 016

Where there are three in a bed not exceeding per week each prisoner 006 For the discharge of those in execution - 054

For

*5*

Norwich

County Gaol,

W2LLS.

NORFOLK.

For the discharge of those upon outlawry For the discharge of those upon common process

Norfolk Circuit.

C D. - o 5 4 - O S

We his Majesty* Justices of the Peace — have hereunto set our hands — the day and year above written

31 July 1729 Confirmed by us

James Reynolds

IVm Bran

R Bacon

Miles Braptb'wayte

Wi Bacon Edits* Bacon Tom. Turner Miles Brant

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Swaffham. Three rooms below} one of which, a lodging-room for men, is too dose, 10 feet9inches by 7 feet9inches: and four rooms above. Court 28 feet by 6f;but the prisoners always locked up: offensive sewers: no water. The keeper has a garden and field. His salary, /i6j and twenty shillings a year for straw. In 1776, clauses against spirituous liquors hung up; at my last visit, he had a licence for beer, and the clauses against spirituous liquors were not hung up. Surgeon, Mr. Say: he makes a bill.

1774, Dec. 11, Prisoners 7.

1776, Feb. 3, — 5, with a lunatic.

1779, March 29, — 11, including the lunatic.

Wymundham. A day-room;with three closets on one side of it, for night-rooms, about 6 feet by 4. A prisoner complained to me of being obliged to lie in one of these closets, with two boys who had a cutaneous disorder. There is another room for women, in which, at my visit in 1779, there were four dirty and sickly objects at work with padlocks on their legs, though they arc never out in the court except on Sundays. The very finall quantity of straw on the floor was worn almost to dust. There is a dungeon down eight steps with the (locks in it. It is 15 - feet by 8, and 6 feet high i now arched with brick 5 a dirt floor j has two apertures

Norfolk Circuit* NORFOLK.

tures at the top, of a foot diameter. The justices seem to have overlooked a clause in a late act of parliament* “ to prevent the “ prisoners from being kept under ground, whenever they can do it conveniently,” as there is abundant room on the premises. Neither the rooms nor the spacious court secure. Prisoners in this bridewell are not only confined within doors, but always in irons. Keeper's salary, £16: no fees. Allowance to those suspected of felony, four pence a day. Straw, ten shillings a year. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Nov. 17, Prisoners 5. 1779* March 30, 5.

Aylsham. In the floor of the work (or day) room is a trapdoor into a dungeon, which is 9^ feet by 6. Above stairs are three rooms, not secure. No fire-place: no straw: court not secure; prisoners in it only on Sundays: no water; no (ewer: no implements for work: no allowance, but two pennyworth of bread a day to vagrants. Keeper's Miry, £13: 6: 8.

1779, April 1, Prisoners 4.

Acte. A day-room, and a room over it. Down9steps are two dark dungeons, 8 feet by 5 feet 10 inches. This prison is quite out of repair. The date on it is 1633. No court: no water accessible to prisoners: no allowance: no straw. Keeper's salary, £16.

1779, April 2, No Prisoners.

Walsingham. A room 15 feet by 8 in the keeper's court, with two dark lodging-rooms about 7 feet square, and straw on the brick floors. The walls of the court not secure. Prisoners in irons. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, £13: 6: 8. Fees, 2 r.

1779, Oct. io, Prisoners 2.

Anno 14 Geo. Ill, Cap. XL1IL

NORWICH

Bride*

WELLS*

NORFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

Norwich.

Remarks.

NORWICH CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER,

Salary, Fees,

Transports. Licence,

Benjamin Fakenham.

none: he pays the under-sheriff £40 a year.

Debtors, £0: 6: 8.

Felons, o: 13: 4.

- 5: 5: o each.

Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 7 a two-penny loaf, each: in 1776, Felons, 5 it was reduced to a penny loafi in 1779, 12 of bread.

Garnish, £0: 1: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Fdooi&c.

1774, Feb. I, 52, 7. 1776, Nov. 17, 11, 10.

--- Dec. 10, 17, 5. 1779, March 31, 19, .5.

1776, Feb. 5, 31, 17.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Buckle. Duty, Prayers, once a fortnights sermon one Tuesday in a month.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr . Matchett.

Salary, £5: 5: o for debtors and felons.

ONLY one court. Many rooms for master's-side debtors. One room for common-side debtors, who are freemen. There is no room for those who are not free, but the felons day-room;which is under the other, and down 13 steps. The felons dungeons, or night-rooms, are down 11 steps; one of them quite dark; the other almost so. The women's dungeon down 10 steps, has a fire-place: but at my late visits they had another night-room, about 104 feet by 54, and but 5 feet high. Straw was only £1: 1: o a year, but now £1: 6: o. — The keeper's stable adjoining to the last room, would make the women a good separate day-room.- — Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

Many

I

NoRtfcLR Cwfcvm NORFOLK. *55

Many alterations are lately made for the better. The court Norwich. is now paved: and some old sheds, that were in it, arc taken down. Three night-rooms or cells for felons, about 3 feet below the ground, 8 feet square, planked all over. A bath: and over it two rooms for debtors. Over them two airy rooms for the sick; each 22 feet by 16, and near 12 feet high.

Gaol-delivery once a year: three prisoners must be con* fined from eight to ten months before their trial; as two were committed November 6, 1778, and one woman August 22>

1778.

TABLE OF FEES.

City of Norwich and County of the same City, At the General Quarter Session — holden at the Guild Hall — 5th October in 33d year of George II. — and — adjourned to the 16th — of the same October — before Nockold Thompson Esq. Afaycr — Edward Bacon Esq.

Recorder — Robert Marsh Esq. &c. &c. — Justices of — the Peace — It is Ordered by this Court in pursuance of an Act for Relief of Debtors — That the several Fees — hereunder written, and no other or greater sums — shall be — taken by any Gaoler or Keeper of any — Prison

within the — City of Norwich —

(That is to say)

£. S. D.

For the commitment or coming into gaol of any prisoner for debt o j 4 For chamber-rent where the gaoler finds bedding and linnen where a prisoner has a bed to hiipfelf or herself, by the week - 010

Where there are two in a bed not exceeding by the week each - 009

£ Where there are three in a bed not exceeding by the week each - 008

For the discharge of those in execution - 054.

For the discharge of those upon outlawry - 054

For the discharge of those upon common - 0 3 4

We his Majesty's Justices of the Peace — for the said City of Norwich have hereunto — set our hands —

Nockold Tompson, Mayor Ed. Bacon John

J, Spurrell Peter Jerem Ives

Confirmed and allowed at the Assize and general Gaol Delivery of our Lord the King held in and for the City of Norwich and County of the same City The IWnty ninth day of July One Thoufaad Seven Hundred and Sixty By us

T: Parker T: Denisow.

Norwich

NORFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

Norwich City Bridewell.

Apartments convenient, and kept clean. A court and pump. The prisoners were at work. Allowance two pennyworth of bread daily. No separate court for women. Keeper's salary,

I did not know till my last visit that here are dungeons, down 15 steps: in one part, four for the; and in another part, three for the women. In these, and in the other rooms, are cribs. But it is to be hoped, the gentlemen, who have made many improvements in their gaol, will be so confederate as to order these cells to be barred to all, unless to such as are very refractory and disobedient.

1774, Dec. 10, Prisoners 3. 1779* ^arc^ 31* Prisoners. 7.

1776, Feb. 5, — 5.

Thetford Town Gaol

Is also the town bridewell. The ground floor for the keeper. On the first story, are four rooms for debtors j and two for delinquents. For felons, a dungeon down a ladder of 10 steps; 18 feet by 9-, and9feet high: a window 18 inches by 14: and an aperture about 2 feet square, lately opened into the passage.

At assize once a year, from sixteen to twenty prisoners brought hither from Norwich castle are confined in this dungeon, men and women together, four or five nights. Court not.secure. No water. Keeper no salary. No fees: only the house to live in.

1774. Dec. 9, Prisoner 1. 1779, Sep. 24, Prisoner 1.

1776, Nov. 18, — 0.

Yarmouth Town Gaol.

« ®e^es the gaoler's house, in which are rooms for master's-1 e debtors, there are for all the prisoners, only a small day-room and court 5 and two or three lodging-rooms for such as

pay

Norfolk Circuit. NORFOLK.

*57

pay for them: two dungeons or night-rooms down a ladder of 10 steps, one for men, the other for women. Allowance, a penny loaf a day (weight in Feb. 1776, 13 ounces): four chaldron of coals a year. The corporation fends out a begging-basket three times a week. — Gaoler's salary, £15: fees, no table. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up.

Yarmouth.

1776, Feb. 6, Debtors 6, Felons &c. 14. 1779, April 3, — 4> ~ 4-

Yarmouth Town Bridewell.

In the work-house yard. Four rooms; a fire-place in one of them. No sewers. No water. Court of conscience debtors sometimes confined here, and discharged in three months.

1776, Feb. 6,7 No prisoners 1779, April 3,3

Lynn Regis Town Gaol.

The rooms for debtors, felons and petty offenders are convenient, and were clean at my first visit. Cribs with straw and two coverlets for the felons: the court is small, and has fowls kept in it. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Gaoler's salary, ^ir; now 20: fees, debtors 3/. 4 d.felons 5*. per table signed by the mayor, dated 17319.

1774, Dec. 11, Debtor 1, Felons &c. 0.

1779, March 29, — 3* — 4-

— Od. 9, -3, — 2.

S COUNTY

Ipswich.

SUFFOLK. N0Rro1.1t Cmarm

COUNTY GAOL at IPSWICH.

GAOLER, Rowland Baker, now John Ripfoaw.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, 7 , . JQ.

Felons, j

Transports, £6: 6: 0 each; he paying clerk of assize

£1: 1: 0 for each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, two pence a day in bread weight in Dec. 1774, 18y ounces).

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 6.

Felons, o: 1: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons *c. Debtors. Fefcsm.

1774, Feb. 3, 22, x4* 1776, Nov. 18, 6.

Dec. 7, I5> 5* i/79> April 5, 24> 23-

1776, Feb. 7, 29> *7-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Bronte.

Duty, Sunday and Friday. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £$0.

SURGEON

Salary, £40 for debtors and felons.

THIS is also the town gaol: yet only one court-yard. — Fear debtors, a kitchen, or day-room; and several chambers: one of these is lately made a free ward. — - For felons a day-room: ®nd for the men a strong night-room; with beds excellently contrived for cleanliness and health. Each prisoner has a crib-bedstead, 10 or 12 inches high;the head raised a few inches; strong feet, low Tides. These keep as distinct as possible, prisoners who deep in the same room; and are easily moved when the ward is to be washed. The county allows to each crib a straw bed, and a blanket. — The women have no separate day-room: and their ward, or night-room, has no fire-place. — of the two drinking-rooms is called the garnish-room. —

Norfolk Circuit. SUFFOLK. 259

Two rooms for the sick; not distinct enough from the rest. Ipswich It is not without reluctance that I add, the sick in February County 1776 complained to me of being neglected by the surgeon. Caol‘ At my two last visits, none sick. — Debtors fell at the front grate, garters, purses &c. of their own making. In 1779, I found this prison clean, though full of prisoners. The water from the pump is conveyed through the sewers, which prevents the court-yard, which is small, from being cftcnfive.

In the centre of the deling of a neat chapel lately built, is an aperture covered by a small turret, which keeps this room airy and pleasant. (All prison chapels should be thus supplied with fresh air.*) Mr. Brcme, the chaplain, does not content himself merely with the regular and punctual performance of his stated duty; he is a friend to the prisoners on all occasions.

Assize always at Bury: there is now an allowance to the gaoler for conveying prisoners thither. Gaoler a sheriff's officer.

- The act for preserving the health of prisoners is not hung up.

Debtors have on Sunday from a legacy of Mr. John Pemberton, each 1 [lb.of beef for broth, a penny loaf, and a pint of ale. From another legacy the town supplies them with five chaldron of coals yearly. No memorial in the gaol.

TABLE OF FEES.

Suffolk,to nvit.At the General Quarter Sessions — holden by

Adjournment at Bury St. Edmunds — 21st — July — 1729, A Table of Fees settled by the Justices of the said Division — pursuant to a late Act — for the Relief of Debtors &c. at the assize for the County of Suffolk — at Bury St. Edmunds the 24th — of July 1729.

£. S. D.

To the gaoler for the commitment fee and discharge of every prisoner o i» 8 Out of which is to be paid to the sheriff - o o

To the officer - 020

for the rent of every chamber weekly - 026

Jasper Cullum G. Golding Jermyn D avers M.

I have reviewed this Table of Fees and do think proper to moderate and reduce the same to f shillings and eight pence by. disallowing the two shillings to be paid to the Officer and deducting six pence fer week out of the Chamber-Rent

Tho. Pengei.lt.

Sec Dr, Priestley's Experiments t»c. p. 281.

Jirafed,

263 SUFFOLK. Norfolk Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

h t b«io«- Ipswich. On the ground floor is a workshop; and a night-

‘ i wztt*. room for men: up stairs a night-room for women. None

of them, nor the court secure. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, £17. No fees.

Prisoners, no allowance: and but half the produce of their labour.

The above was the state of the prison in 1776, but at my visit in 1779, I found it greatly improved. The work-rooms and chambers now are 20 feet by 13. — The court is 40 feet

by 34-

1774, Dec. 8, Prisoner 1. 1776, Nov. 18, Prisoners 2.

t 1776, Feb. 7, — 3. 1779, April 5, — 0.

Woodbridge. Two rooms, lately enlarged, 28 feet by 16.

The lower one is nine feet high. To each are three windows and afire-place. The court is also enlarged out of the keeper's garden, and made secure. Salary, £15. Pn-foners allowance, two pence a day. When they work they; have half the profit. No straw: no firing: no water. It

f is to be hoped the justices will order a pump. — Clauses against

t spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Feb. 7, Prisoners 9. 1779, April 4, 1.

Beccx.es. A room on the ground floor, called the,a chamber for women, called the upper,a day-room I with a fire-place; and a dungeon 7 steps under ground. In

\ the ward is a window to the street which is highly improper,

! as I have seen numbers of idle persons crowding about it.

No pump in the court: no separate apartments for the women. The keeper has a large garden. — Salary, £11: 10: 0. Fees, 6 s. 8 d.Allowance, a twopenny loaf a day. Thirty shillings a year for straw. £5 a year for coals. When prisoners work they have half the profit, j 177^> Feb. 6, Prisoners 3. 1779, April 2, 9.

Norfolk Circuit. SUFFOLK. 261

At my last visit the keeper shewed me an old table of fees Britk-on parchment, which I here copy. w,tu'

The Gaoler's Fees for the County of Suffolk agreed upon 29 of March 1676 by the Justices of the Peace underwritten.

£. $. D.

Inprimis for every person committed in court - 0 i 8

Item for every person committed out of court - 03

Item for every person committed upon warrant or process - 03

Item for every person committed upon execution - 06

Item to the turnkey - 01

Item for every person upon his acquittal for felony - >06

Item for every person committed upon outlawry - 0 10

Item for every prisoner lodging in the gaoler's bed for every night taking

no diet in the house - 00

Taking diet - 00

If he find his own bed and take diet - 00

If he take no diet - 00

Item for every prisoner that is not a felon that will go into the ward and lye there for every night - 00

Item if two lye in one bed and take diet in the house for both o o

If they take no diet - 00

For the two best chambers in the house as they can agree.

Henry Felton dnthy. Edgar

Robt. Brake Thot. Bacon Ch*. Shelton

Tho Smith Thot. Bade

Ex per Clarke V. C. P.

Since allowed by the Judges at the Assizes at Bury,

Lavenham. A work-room below: a chamber for men j only [ i J

one room for women: none of them secure. The prison is: i

out of repair. A prisoner lately escaped, for which the keeper was fined, though the rtegleft lay in the magistrates. j

Prisoners always kept within doors, and a padlock on each. j

A court: no water: no straw. Keeper's salary, £15: 14: 8.

No fees. The prisoners were spinning. There is no proper reparation of female prisoners. An old out-house and stable of the keeper's might be made convenient for them.

1776, Nov. 18, Prisoners 2. j

1779, April 6, — 3. Impressed Men 15.

----- Sep. 25, — 3- j -

S 3 Clare. j r

262

B« I D*>

WZILS,

SUFFOLK. Norfolk‘Circuit.

Clare. A work-room. Two lodging-rooms with boarded bedsteads. No chimneys. The work-room close glared, and made oft.nfive by a closet in it. No court. Prisoners have no access to the well of fine water. The prison walls are clay, but the men's lodging-room boarded; and the whole of it is out of repair: the prisoner in 1776, a woman, at work, in irons. No allowance. Each prisoner pays a penny a day for straw &c. Keeper a weaver: salary, ^13: 5.: 4: no fees. Clauses against spirituous Jiquors not hung up. At my first visit in 1779, the three prisoners, though they were women, had each a heavy chain, and the two imprtfied men had chains and logs. No justices have visited this prison for fifteen years.

1776, Dec. 6, Prisoner 1.

1779, April 6, — 3. Impressed Men 2.

--- Sep. 25, — 1.

I

Mildenhall. Two rooms, the lower 11 feet by 10, and the upper 12 feet by 8. No fire-place. The prison out of repair: court not secure. No fewer. Clauses against

spirituous liquors not hung up. — Keeper's salary, £10, No fees.

1779, Sep. 24, No prisoners.*

Bury St. Edmund's Gaol.

This prison for the franchise or liberty of Bury St. Edmund's, is the property of Sir Charles Davers. The court is spacious, but notfeeure: at my visit in 1779, they were repairing it, and making it secure by chevaux frise: none have the use of it without paying a shilling a week. On one side of it are several rooms for debtors: one of them is a work-room j those who work in it pay a shilling a w'eck. On the other side, is a

The work-house, or house of industry for this parish, situated near the church, was the cleaned I ever saw. Here were upwards of forty persons whose countenances bespoke their fati.fafVion and the attention paid to them. If all the parishes had been as caieful to promote cleanliness and industry in their own work-houses, there would have been no occasion for parishes uniting in housea of industry, most of which I have visited in this and the adjoining county.

Norfolk Circuit- S U FF

large dungeon down three flops;which is the day and night-room for felons: the men are chained to flaples fixed in the barrack, bed (leads. No draw. There is another dungeon down a step or two; feidom used- The late gaoler told me that in the winter 1773, five died of the final! pox. No apothecary then; but one is appointed since. No infirmary. A chaplain; and prayers twice a week: salary, £50. Keeper, no salary: fees, debtors 8r. Sd. felons 6r. no table: licence for beer and wine. Allowance, debtors none, felons three-halfpennyworth of bread a day; and from the 5th of November to the Saturday before Lady-day, felons have two bushels of coals a week, and debtors four; both from a legacy of which no memorial in the gaol. In a Drfcriprinted 1771, there is an account of several ancient donations and bequests to prisoners. Whether they be now totally funk, or the coals be from some of them, I cannot say.

At assize, twice a year, prisoners of both sexes brought from Ipswich are confined four or five nights in the dungeon here defer ibed.

Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors, Felons&c.

1774, Dec. 9, 10, 15. 1776, Nov. 18, 5, 6.

1776, Feb. 8, 11, 18. 1779, April 5, 18, 5.

Bury Bridewell.

This, it is said, was in former times a Jewish fyrtagogue.

It has a large work-room; a room for men, and another, for women;all up (lairs, and out of repair. A very small court; no water. Keeper's salary, £6; and four pence for each pri--foner's draw: fees, one shilling.

1774, Dec. 9, Prisoners 2. 1776, Nov. 18, Prisoner 1.

1776, Feb; 8. — .1. 1779* April 5, — 2.

Sudbury Gaol and Bridewell.

Has for debtors a day-room with a fire-place; and two little rooms for them to lodge in, about 7 feet by 5 each. A room for men-criminals, with a fire-place and a loom; another for

S 4 , women j

*63

Bu*t.

264

Stt DBVRY.

War-

wick.

WARWICKSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

women; this also has a fire-place. A court, not secure; and the water not accessible to prisoners. They have no allowance^ Keeper, no salary: fees, 4 s.no table. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Dec. 6,i ' > No Pruoners,

1779, bep. 25, J

MIDLAND CIRCUIT.

WARWICKSHIRE. COUNTY GAOL at WARWICK.

GAOLER, William Roe Junr.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 14: 6.

Felons, o: 13: 4.

Transports, ^8: o: o each, he paying clerk of assize I: 1: o for each.

Licence to turnkey for beer. Gaoler brews it.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a loaf of 3 every other day. Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felont&c. Debtors. Felons&c.

1773, Nov. 22, 23, 9. 1776, Oa. 30, 22, 7.

1774,--- 10, I3, I3. 1779, Mar. 26, 22, 28.

1776, Jan. 6, 24, 33.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Muffan.

Duty, Sunday and Friday.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Weak.

Salary, /20 for gaol and bridewell.

ONE

265

WARWICK.

ONE court for debtors, and men-felons. Women-felons have quite separate court, day-room, and two night-rooms. They used to be loaded with irons; now they have none. Men-felons have a day-room: their night-room is in an o&a-gonal dungeon about 21 feet diameter1, down 31 steps; close, damp, and offensive. Two cells, in another dungeon for the condemned. Prisoners are tried in the county clothing. I saw twelve suits for men, and fix for women.*

Debtors common day-room is the hall, which is also used as a chapel. For master's-side, ten or twelve rooms, some of them the Rooks Neji, where also is the free ward.

No infirmary. The late gaoler Mr. Rqe (uncle to the present) died in 1772, of the gaol distemper; and so did some of his prisoners. No water then, but now plenty. The felons allowance of bread is judiciously fixed by weight, not variable with the price.

Debtors have in common from a legacy thirty shillings a year; and from another legacy eight three-penny loaves at the beginning, and as many at the end, of every month. No memorial of either legacy hung up in the gaol.

This prison might be-improved on the adjacent ground belonging to the county.

The justices of this county have taken the gaol and bridewell under confederation, and propose that debtors and felons, and also men and women, in both, shall be entirely separated. A chapel and infirmary also are designed. May it not be hoped that gentlemen so confederate will not continue the damp and offensive dungeon, which has only an aperture level with the court, 3 feet 2 inches diameter.

There were hung up in the debtors hall, some rules against profaneness, rioting and drunkenness, with penalties annexed; but I was sorry to find among them that “ Every debtor at his or her first coming must pay fot garnish 2 6

Warwick

County Gaol.

Remarks.

Sec a better practice at Reading in Berkshire.

A TABLE

*6B

Warwick

County

Caoi.

WARWICKSHIRE. MiDL^Nto Gmcuff,

A TABLE OF DEBTORS FEES,

As settled — by his Majesty's Justices of the Peaces-at the General Quarter Sessions — held at Warwick — -the loth day of July 1759 according to the directions of an Act for the Relief of Debtors dec.

£ S- D.

Every prisoner that lies on the keeper's-side if he has a bed to himself, pays by the week -

Those prisoners on the keeper's-side and have a bed between two, pay each? by the week -

For entering every action against each prisoner -

For discharging every action against each prisoner -

To the under-sheriff for every discharge -

For receiving and entering every declaration For a copy of each warrant against each prisoner For every certificate of the canfe of a prisoner's being detained in'prison in order for being discharged

Old

Old 030 o to d 040 oxo 01b

030

F Stratford M WifeWHuddeford C Beam

We the Judges of Assize for the County of Warwick have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above Table of Fees. Given under our Hands this 24th day of August 1759

T. Parks*

Ja Hewitt,

A true Copy.

In this gaol is hung up the following ORDER.

Wamxrickshiret to nuit. At — General Quarter Sessions — 12th January — 13th of George III. — and in the year 1773 before Joseph Davie Clerk, John Ingram, Samuel Aylworth Esqrs.

Ordered and it is the opinion of this Court — that the gaol be always kept close (hut up and no persons admitted therein, or permitted to continue there after nine in the evening between Michaelmas and L"dy-day, and ten in the evening between Lady-day and Michaelmas, except in cases of real necessity or business.

J T Hewitt Clerk of the Peace.

COUNTY

Midi and 'Circuit. WARWICKSHIRE.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WARWICK.

This prison, the only county bridewell, is too small. For men, a work-room and two lodging-rooms. For women, two rooms in a little separate court. No water. The handle of the pump is on the outside of the wall. The whole prison close and offensive: might be enlarged on the ground adjacent. Allowance, one pound and a half of bread a day: no employment. Keeper's salary wezo, £40: fees, 4 table

hung up. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up. Mr. Muflan (chaplain to the county gaol) reads prayers here once a week. This prison is to be enlarged and improved. See ‘Remarks on the county gaol.

Committed in the year 1772, prisoners 85; in-1773, III'; in 1774, 123.

1774, Nov. 10, Prisoner i. 1776, O&. 30, Prisoners 12.

1776. Jan. 6, — 5. 1779, Mar. 26, — 12.

COVENTRY CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports. Licence,

Basil Goode. j£i2, now taken off.

Debtors,? £ Felons, 5 5

/8 each.

Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a pennyworth of bread a day. Garnish, £0 *.3: 0.

Number, Debtors, Felons Sec, Debtors. Felons &C«

1773, Nov. 20, 9> 7- 1779, Mar. 26, n»

1776, Jan. 7> 16, 10. — Nov. 25, 5>

— oa. 3°> 7> 5- Deserters 4-

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Ur. Harper.

Salary, none; he makes a bill.

THIS

267

Bsid^-

WXLL.

Covrjc-

T*r,

Warwick

County - Gaol,.

tASW I

A TAB

As settled — by Quarter ScfTion according to t!.

Every prisoner t' pays by the Those prisi n.

pay each

For enterin':

For dischar To the ur.<

For recci'.

For a Co-

For eve:

In oi

r

We

^ Midland Circuit.

-1 r.

— , .‘ji close part of the citr. _ ctt r^deraen very judiciou/iy _ --rtai» rx mailer's-side debtors; T^i-cicos have only one room, Tie men have a day-room..rsare Heps to a passage only are about nine feet by fix:

-.t. a window. All are very — _ t.are went down with torches.

: _ No firaw. No infirmary.

? z — ~ *: r v — ir_-ils in the adjoining old.~e ne n: cr i dungeons need not be: -= uTvi-ated. Neither clauses

tlt ire ict (or preferying the health -c i-. Tier? now a table of fees.

-, I L I C ? DEBTORS FEES,

___.^'i.jefr's 'ulices of the Peace iar ~br City of

_. — Sessions of the Peace held at the

___- — - xr ;anwrr 1*78 according to~an AS of

_ __ — jeurp; IL — for the Relief of Debtors.

C S. D.

_^2 as ior if he has a bed to himself

cri. - o a 6

^» — jars: \ lee. »: have a bed between two,

- v - Ol6

^ - O O 6

.*rr« p-joner committed or detained in his

- o 13 4

n e- irj xhc cjci* - o a o

^ jkw-3? ecsrt d£^r-ia» - 010

^ 1 u-»i- »ramfc sset. prisoner - 0*0

-: x ram: at 1 pniccer beinjdetained in prisonin.. - 030

John Minster.

Thifi. L.

jv-xyx.

of _"A.

tie above Table of Fees, and do

cosira the Ume

W, H. Ashurst. Coventry

CUIT.

269

WARWICKSHIRE.

gventry City Bridewell.

,01ns for men; two for women;all close and offen-.0 court: no water accessible to prisoners: no sewers: M.yment. Keeper's salary, £5: fees, one shilling. was the Hate in 1776; but now the old town-hall ad-.: is made into a work-lhop, and two lodging-rooms for the women have their separate room and court, and .: cr is laid into both apartments.

1776, Jan. 7, Prisoners 6. 1779, Mar. 26, Prisoner 1.

--- Oa. 30, — 3. Nov. 25, — 1.

Birmingham Town Gaol.

The gaol for this large populous town is called Dungeon, The court is only about 25 feet square. Keeper's house in front; and under it two cells down 7 steps: the draw is on bedsteads. On one side of the court two night-rooms for women, 8 feet by 5 feet9inches; and folne rooms over them: on the other side is the gaoler's liable, and one small day-room for men and women;no window: above is a free ward for court of conscience debtors, who are cleared in forty days: this is a sizeable room, but has only one window 18 inches square. Over it is another room, or two.

In this small court, besides the litter from the liable, there was a llagnant puddle near the fink, for the gaoler's ducks* (Gaoler's poultry is a very common nuisance;-but in so scanty a court it is intolerable.) The whole prison is very offensive. At some particular times here arc great numbers confined. Once in the winter 1775 there were above 150, who by the care of the magistrates had a supply of proper food, broth &c. Licence for beer: fees, 2*. no table. Neither clauses against spirituous liquors, nor act for preserving the health of prisoners are hung up.

1774, Nov. 10, Debtors 7. Offenders 2.

1776; Sep. 11, — 7- . — 5-

1779, Au§- 23> — 0. — 8.

LEICESTER-

*7°

Lxtcti-

Ttl.

Rimaru.

LEICESTERSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at LEICESTER.

GAOLER, Samuel Jordan, now William Jordan.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors,

Felons,

Transports, If only one, £$; if more than one, each. Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 1 a four-penny loaf every other day Felons, J ( weight once lib. 8 once 50Z.)

Garnift, Debtors, £0: 4: c. 1

Felons, 0: 3: 0.!

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felons

1773. Nov* l6> 16, 3- 1775, Nov. ii, 17, 2.

1774. April 4> 16, 11. 1776,0a. 29, 17, 5-

1775, Jan- 3> 7- 1779, Mar. 27, 23, 10.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £go.

SURGEON, Mr. Mafia.

Salary, £15 for debtors and felons.

} j£o: is: 4-

FOR master's-side debtors nine or ten rooms. Day-room Common. The free ward, the cell, is a dungeon,* 29 £ feet by 8 feet 8 inches, and 6' feet high, down 7 steps and damp; two windows;the largest about 15 inches square. Felons day and night-rooms are dungeons from 5 to 7 steps under ground. They sleep on thick mats on the floor j which, if coverlets were added, would be better than straw. The whole close and offensive. Court small. No chapel. Two rooms lately built for an infirmary: but the gaol is not convenient or healthy. In 1774, three debtors and a felon died of the small-pox. Of that dil'ease I was informed few ever recover in this

This fee ms to be the hiv mcijl dungten that was complained of by a debtor in this gaol, in his Letter 13th Nov. 1690, sent to Moses Pitt, a prisoner in the Fleet; whoiprinted it, with other letters from prisoner*, in his Cry of tbt OpfnJJid 1691. By this, and one or two more of the letters in that little tract, it appears that some inconveniences which I otferved in gaols, and have set down in my remaiks, arc of long (landing.

J

Midban* Circuit. LEICESTERSHIRE, 371

gaol. The castle-hill is hear the {hire-hall, and is a fine spot Lzjcxs-

for air and water. _ T1*

Countt

Clauses of the ad against the use of spirituous liquors painted Gaol. on the same board as the table of fees. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. An inscription on a board is fixed over the gate. That no garnish is allowed to be taken.

In this county they make an annual collodion by a l^in^ of voluntary brief. The gentlemen of the grand jury recommend it to the clergy: most of whom promote the collection in their respective parishes. The thanks of the grand jury to forty-eight clergymen by name, were inserted in the Leicester Journal of Feb. 16th 1775; for the satisfaction of those gentlemen and other contributors. There is a table of the sum received from each parish; and a list of debtors clothed or discharged j and an account of the expenditure of the remainder in feeding and warming all the prisoners in the inclement season. The collodions in 1774 amounted to £74. I found in 1776 the accounts were kept, and the application of the money chiefly di-reded by John Simpson, Esq. of Leicester. \ wish every county would imitate this exemplary benevolence: an4 I wish every county that does so, a steward equally faithful and arduous. hticestershire,

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Keeper of this Gaol.

£.S.D.

For lodging of every prisoner per week -.-9a 4

For gaol-fees for discharge of every prisoner - p 13 4

For the turnkey - o a o

A room of every prisoner who finds his own bed per week - 010

A room, called the cellar, for debtors if they find their own bed 000

For the copy of every warrant or commitment - 0 f o

For signing the certificate in order to obtain a f - 010

Thomas a Becket ScJ/jou. July IQ. 1759.

We whose names are hereunto subscribed his Majesty's Justices of the Peace in and for the County of Leicester do hereby allow of the above Fees being taken.

Wm.Wrighte Ch. Hutchinson John Danvers IV. Cftnt,

We the Judges of Assize for the County of Leicester have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above Table of Fees. Given under our Hands this 17th day of August 1759

T. Parker Ja. Hewitt.

The above it a copy of the original.

COUNTY

l

LEICESTERSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Leicester. Three rooms below for men: three above for women;one of these not used, because not secure. No chimneys. Court not safe for prisoners to be allowed the use of it. The prison is kept clean. Keeper's salary,: he pays window-tax £0: 14: o. Allowance two

pennyworth of bread a day, after a month's confinement. I saw none at work. There was painted on a board,«By order of the Court at Easter Sessions 1778, that “ there shall be no Ale or Beer brought into this Prison “ on a Sunday, nor after Seven o'clock in the Evening on«a Week-day.”

I beg leave to suggest, that if a wall were built with brick, instead of the clay-wall, there would be no need of a chain and log, to secure the prisoners in the court. The

might be separated, if the narrow court were enlarged from the orchard, which is now let by the keeper for £6 per

Melton-Mowbray. Two rooms about eleven feet by nine: no chimney. Keeper's salary, £4. He formerly paid rent for a cottage, but the county has lately built him a little dwelling of two or three rooms. — No court, nor any room for one. No water.

Hinkley. This pFifon has a work-room; a lodging-room for men;another for women;both of them small. Mats upon bedsteads. Keeper's salary, £4: 4: 0. Fees, 2 6 no table. He is also master of the work-house adjoining; in which the poor looked healthy, were cheerful, clean, and at work.

apartments also would be more airy, and men and women

1775. Jan- 3* Prisoners 3. 1776, 061. 29, — 2.

1779, Mar. 27, — 8.

2.

8.

LEICESTER

273

IB

LEICESTER TOWN and COUNTY GAOL. !! 1;

GAOLER, Henry Coulson, now Samuel Jordan,

Salary, none: he pays rent £$.

F“- -

Transports, £\o each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, ?

_ , ' > two pence a day each in bread.

Felons, 3

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 4: 6.

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felons Sec* 1

1774, April 4, 5, 5. 1776, oa. 29, 1, 2.;;

177S* Jan. 3, 1, 2. 1779, Mar. 27, 3, 2. ‘ j

--Nov. 11, 1, o. jj; I

CHAPLAIN, None. j: j

SURGEON, Mr. Maule. 'f

Salary, none: he makes a bill. j

A common day-room or kitchen: two rooms above for such Remarks. as pay. Down five steps a dungeon for men-felons; another -

for women;another for common-side debtors. This town J j;

gaol has a court with plenty of water. Neither clauses against j I

spirituous liquors, nor the aa for preserving the health of 1 j

prisoners, are hung up; but there is now a table of fees. ';

Leicester.

Borough of Leicester in the County of Leicester.

A Tablb of Fees to be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol for the said Borough.

£-S.D.

For lodging every prisoner per week - 0*4

For a room, of every person who finds his own bed ftr week - 010

For the gaol fees for the discharge of every prisoner - 0134

For the turnkey - . - o a o

T A room

I

*7+

LEICESTERSHIRE. UuuauCircuit.

Lsiczs- A room called the debtors room if they find their own bed to pay »* For the copy of every warrant or commitment - o x o

For signing a certificate in order to obtain a supersedeas - o x o

At the delivery of every declaration - 0 i o

Attending upon every prisoner to give bail, special bail, or any

thing necessary to go oat of gaol for every mile travelling - o x o

Michaelmas Sessions 1776.

We whose names are hereunto subscribed three of his Maj efty's Justices of the Peace for the Borough of Leicester aforesaid do hereby allow the above Fees to be taken (the 13 s. and 4V. above to the gaoler and the 2/. to the turnkey where the prisoner against whom no bill of indictment shall be found by the grand jury, and who, on his or her trial shall be acquitted, or who shall be discharged by proclamation for want of prosecution, only excepted.)

Will. Burletau, Recorder. Rob*. Jofb, Johnftn,

We the Judges of Assize for the Borough of Leicester aforesaid have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above Table of Fees. Given under our hands this 2zd day of March 1777.

G. Nares.

S. S. Smyths,

Leicester Town Bridewell.

Joins to the town gaol. Two small rooms for men, and two for women. Keeper's salary augmented to ^5.

1776, Oct. 29, 1779, March 27,5

No Prisoners.

DERBY*

175

COUNTY GAOL at DERBY.

y

GAOLER, Blyth Simpson. Di*r,

Salary, £30.

Fees, Debtors, 7 r

Felons, 5 7

Transports, £5: 17: o each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, lperweek, each two nine-penny Felons, J loaves; and in common two of coals.

Garnish, £0: 3: 6, and £0: 1: 2 for coals &c.

Number, Debtors. FelonsSec. Debtors. Felonskc,

1773>Nov-i8> 4* 3* 1776,0a29, 10, 7.

1774, April 2, 8, 10. 1779, May 14, 12, 6.

1775, Nov. 13, 12, 8. Impressed5. Deserters 3.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Seal,now the Rev. Mr.

Duty, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.

Salary, £30.

SURGEON, Mr. Harrison.

Salary, £30 for debtors, felons, and the bridewell.

Three guineas for travelling charges to quarter sessions, to report the state of the health of the prisoners.

THIS gaol, built about twenty years ago, is in an airy Rimabks. healthy situation. — The debtors court and v/ard very properly separate from those for felons, but not from the bridewell.

The debtors floors are tarras, not easily washed. The windows in general too final! and close glazed. — The , in the

debtors court, has a large work-room, a lodging-room for men, and two for women. — In the felons court there is for men a day-room, and down 3 steps a dungeon, 23£ feet diameter: for women a day-room, and two small night-rooms; the latter are too close, 7^ feet square. The acte for preserving the health of prisoners hung up. A neat chapel, but the

276

Derby County Gaol.

DERBYSHIRE, Midland Circuit.

ceiling too low: a new bath;prisoners wash in it before assize and quarter fcilion&j a copper just by to warm the water. — Above are two rooms for an infirmary. There is also a new room or parlour at the keeper's house, with windows to the felons court: this circumstance keeps them quiet and orderly. The county allows eight guineas a year for draw.

A person goes round the county about Christmas to gentlemen's houses, and begs for the debtors. He carries a book, in which the giver enters his name, and donation. The whole amount, generally about/14.

TABLE OF FEES.

Derbyshire, to twit. At the General Quarter Sessions — held at Bakewell — on Tuesday the first week after the transiation of St. Thomas the Martyr (to wit) the 10th — July — 4th year of — George III. — 1764, before the Rev. Sir John Every, Bart, the Rev. John Simpson, Clerk, Philip Cell, John Twigg, Henry Thornhill, and Joseph Briggs, Esquires, Justices &c.

Leonard , Esq. Sheriff.

It is ordered — that the following — Fees — be taken by the Keeper — and no other.

£. S. D.

For the lodging of every prisoner in his house per week - o»6

For the discharge of each prisoner out of custody - 0 13 4

To the turnkey - 020

For the copy of every warrant - 010

For signing a certificate, in order to obtain a superjedeat - 020

For registering each declaration - 0 1 o

For attending with every prisoner in order to give bail or be otherwise

discharged - 020

And it is further ordered, that the Clerk of the Peace do cau(e this Order to be printed, and the Keeper of the Gaol for the time being do observe the same upon pain of being prosecuted according to law.

By the Court, Clerk of the Peace.

We the Judges of Assize for the County of Derby have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above written Tabic of Fees. Given under our hands at the Assizes holden at Derby the nth day of August 1764.

T. Parker*

E. Clive.

COUNTY

*77

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at CHESTERFIELD.

This house, given, as I was informed, to the county for a bridewell, was built in 1614. For men, a room or cellar 17 feet square under the keeper's house; down 8 steps;but level with the ground behind it: provision generally put through a hole in the floor, 6 inches square. A room for women up stairs. No court: no water: no straw. Nothing allowed by the county for conveyance to quarter sessions. Keeper's salary, /20.' No fees: no allowance: no employment. A court might be made from one of the keeper's gardens.

1776, Jan. 10, Prisoners 2.

--- Oct. 28, — 1.

1779, May 14, — I.

Impressed Men 3. Deserter 1.

Derby Town Gaol

Is also the bridewell. Two rooms for debtors; one for felons;three for petty offenders, Prisoners always locked up: the narrow court or passage, only 34 feet by 7, not being secure, is of little use but for the keeper's fowls. The whole dirty and offensive. Gaoler has a garden behind the prison. No salary as gaoler; as keeper of bridewell, £$. Fees, debtors 6s. 8 d.felons 3J. 6 d.No table. Garnish 3 on a

paper in the debtors kitchen. Allowance to felons, one shilling and six pence weekly in breads Licence for beer.

1776, Oct. 29, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 2.

1779, May 14, O. - 0-

T 3 Chester-

Bkidc-

WILl.

DERBYSHIRE.. Midland Circuit*

Chesterfield Gaol,

For the hundred of Scarsdale, is the property of the duke of Portland;to whom, or to his steward, the gaoler pays j£i8: 12: o a year. Only one room with a cellar under it; to which the prisoners occasionally descend through a hole in the floor. The cellar had not been cleaned for many months. The prison-door had not been opened for several weeks, when I was there first. There were four prisoners, who told me they were almost starved: one of them said, with tears in his eyes, “ he had not eaten a morfci that day it was afternoon. Their meagre field, countenances confirmed what they said. They had borrowed a book of Dr. Manton's; one of them was reading it to the rest. Each of them had a wife; and they had in the whole thirteen children, cast on their respective parishes. Two had their groats from the creditors-, and out of that pittance they relieved the other two. No allowance: no draw: no firing: water a halfpenny for about three gallons, put in (as other things are) at the window. Gaoler a bailiff, lives distant. I found in this prison a strong bed-(lead, which had been compassionately left by a poor prisoner, that it might be some relief to his unhappy successors.

1776, Jan 10, Debtors 4,

— O&. 28, — 1.

1779, May 14, — 0.

NOTTINGHAM.

DipTzed by

MidlandCaetrir, NOTTINGHAMSHIRE,

*79

COUNTY GAOL at NOTTINGHAM.

GAOLER, Richard Bonington.

Salary, £20.

scs

Transports, £7: 17: 6 each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day.

Felons, three halfpennyworth of bread and a halfpenny-in money every day of three-penny loaf in fan, 1775, lib. 14! oz.)

Garnish, prohibited.

Number, Debtor*. Felons tec.Debtors. Felons &o.

1773. N°v. 17, 4, 12. 1775, Nov. 12, 4, 11.

1774, April 3, 12, 2. 1776, Sep. 25, 4, 10.

1775, Jan. 4, 10, 1. 1779, Sep. 19, 12, 5.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Anderson.

Duty, Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary> £50-

SURGEON, Mr. Bettefon, now Mr. Partridge.

Salary, £20, now 30, for debtors and felons.

THE gaol is on the side of a hill. For master*s-side debtors Remarks. only three rooms. Down 28 steps are three rooms for criminals who can pay. Down 12 steps more are deep dungeons, cut in the sandy rock, very damp: one of which is 23 feet by 13, and 7 feet high: another, nearly circular, is about 12 feet diameter: the straw on barrack beds.

At my last visit, the felons court was more airy, the wall being palisaded j and there was an entire reparation of debtors and felons.

For bathing here is (not, as in most other county gaols, an inconvenient and almost useless tub — but) a large and very

Nottingham.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. Midland Circuit.'

l8<J

Nottine- commodious bath, supplied with river water; and a copper County just ^y, to warm it when necessary. This bath is a late im-Gaol. provement; and so is the infirmary, near it, which has two rooms. The act for preserving the health of prisoners is neatly painted over the keeper's door. The justices have allowed the gaoler to supply the sick with better nourishment &c. to the amount of seven Shillings a week. Gentlemen so remarkably considerate and humane will,. I hope, abolish the unwholesome dungeons.

No chapel. Service is performed in a parlour, which is too (mail.

Transports condemned at assizes had, with the king's allowance of two shillings and six pence a week, the county-bread.

Here (as at Derby) a man goes round the county about Christmas, and begs at gentlemen's houses for the debtors. He carries a book, and gentlemen write in it their names and donations. The amount, about /30 a year.

Prisoners are tried in clothes provided for that purpose by the county.

The prisoners have the choice of wheaten or household bread;the weight of the former,- three fourths of the latter.

In the account fer.t up to London of transports in this gaol in 1776, was one William Berks. This man obtained his majesty's pardon. Mr. Francis Waters, clerk of assize, in his letter lent with the pardon, charges

State office fees /1: 7: 6.

My fees - 1: 7: 8.

For these, and the gaol fees, the pardoned criminal was detained in prison.

TABLE OF FEES.

Nc ttivgha;»Jhi; r.

At the Quarter Sessions held at the Shire-Hall 14th January 1760.

For lodging and board of each prisoner when he lodges and diets with the gaoler, by the week -

For each when he hath a room and bed of the gaoler and diets himself, by the week -

For each when he finds his own bed and diet week 1 or the uifeharge of each -

*.nd to the turnkey for the same -

£. S. D. 070

020 006 o >3 4 o 1 4

See a more judicious practice at Reading.

The

aSf

The gaoler is to take notice if he takes more than the above sums Nottikc-he is liable to forfeit to the party aggrieved for each offence the r

sum of fifty pounds (exclusive of the penalties inflicted by former acts.)

We direct the Deputy Clerk of the Peace betwixt now and the next Sessions to put Copies of this Table in the respective Courts within this County where the General Quarter Sessions are held, and also in some conspicuous open place within the said Gaol, in order that the same may be inspected as occasions may require to be resorted to at all seasonable times in the day time without paying any thing for the fame.

M. MustersW. Bilbie Sherbrooke

y White Wm. Kirke Geo. Majon.

Having reviewed the above Table of Fees, I do hereby confirm the fame. Witness my hand the 26th day of March 1760

H. Bathurst.

A true copy examined with the original by me

John Hurf deputy clerk of the peace.'

Kottingham/hire. A Table of the several Gifts Legacies and Bequests — for the benefit — of poor Prisoners in the common Gaol of this County as settled by us his Majesty's justices of the Peace — this 18th day of Jan. 1760. Pursuant to the late Act of Parliament and according to the bell information we can get, as follows.

By John Sherwin Esq. of Nottingham, the yearly Atm of four pounds, paid quarterly out of an estate at Bramscote, in this county, purchased by Mr. Sher-win's father of some of the defendants of Henry Handley Esq. who left this charity.

By Abel Smith Esq. of Nottingham, pursuant to the directions of the will of Mr.

Abel Ceilings deceased, four shillings monthly for coals for the prisoners.

We are informed that forty IhiJ'ings a year, was formerly left by some of the family of — - Hutchinson Esquire. But that the prisoners have not received the same these twenty years part.

We do not know of any other gifts, legacies, or bequests, except the general collection made in the county for the prisoners every Christmas.

We order this table to be trans.nitted to the deputy clerk of the peace for this county, to be entered among the rolls of the Alliens, and copies thereof to be

made

2&L

Nottino- am County Gaol.

Brit>r-

WELL.

NOTTINGHAM SHIRE. Midlav. Culcvtt.

made and hung up by him In the reCpe&ive courts, where the general quartet sessions are held. — there to remain and be inspected. — And also to cause another copy — to be transmitted to the keeper of the said gaol to be forthwith hung up by him there, in some public place, and in a conspicuous manner, — to as the prisoners may have free resort thereto, at all seasonable times In the day time, without paying any thing for the fame.

M. Mujiers W. Bilbie H. Sherbrookt.C. Stanhope y. Whit* Wm. Kirk* GMa/on.

A true copy examined with the original by me

John Hwrft,

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SOUTHWELL.

This is also used as a prison for those manors in this county which belong to the archbishop of York.

In front of the court, is a room on the ground-floor, in which were two men: one of them sentenced for three years, the other for seven: and a damp dungeon down 10 steps,

14 feet square and 7'feet high: the window 2 feet 10 inches, by only 8 inches.--The date on this part is 1656. — In the back court is a new building with two rooms on the ground floor, and two above: one of the latter is an infirmary.

No pump in this court: for the women, a court might be made out of the keeper's garden. Clauses of act a gain ft spirituous liquors not hung up. — Apothecary, Mr. Hutchinfini he makes a bill. Allowance, three-halfpennyworth of bread.

A three-penny loaf weighed 1 lb.5 at my first visit; at my second, 2 lb. j at my last, of good household bread, 2 11 oz. Some of the prisoners were making shoemaker's pegs at three-halfpence a thousand. Keeper's salary, £45; fees,

3 s.6 d.no table. He informed me that a few years ago,

seven died here of the gaol fever within two years.

1775. Jan. Prisoners 9.

1776, Sep. 24, — 13.

1779. — 20, — 17.

NOTTING-

Midland Circuit. NOTTINGHAMSHIRE,

1

*83

NOTTINGHAM TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

Richard Bonington, the county gaoler.

Debtors, ^0: 8: o if under £10.

o: 14: 8 if from any court in London.

Felons, o: 14: 8.

7: 17: 6 each.

See County Gaol.

Nottihc-

HAM,

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, three-halfpence in bread, a day. Garnish, lately prohibited.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 17, 5> 2. 1776, Sep. 25, 0, 0.

177S» 4* 3, 0. 1779, 19, 2, 0.

—— Nov. 12, 5* 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None dated. The mayor orders one when wanted.

THIS gaol has been lately repaired and much improved. Remarks. Three rooms on the ground floor, two chambers, and two garrets: a dungeon down twenty-two steps, which I was informed has not been used for some years: a back court well supplied with water. Debtors have from a legacy one shilling a week for coals. Collected in the town for prisoners about four or five pounds a year.

A table of fees was hung up, dated the 10th of April 1777, signed by Tho. Sands > Mayor, Rich. Butler and John,

Aldermen, and confirmed by W. H> , similar to that in

county gaol.

Nottisc*

1

384 NOTTINGHAMSHIRE: Midland Circuit I

Nottingham.

Nottingham Town Bridewell.

Two rooms: no fire-place: a dark dungeon down nine steps. No court, although there is ground before and behind the house. No fewer. Water in a kitchen, where there is a bed for prisoners who can pay two pence a night. Allowance, a three-penny loaf every other day. Here is a mill for grinding horse-bcans. Keeper's salary, /8: fees,

J/7^» SCP* 25, prisoners>

1779, — 3

Newark upon Trent Town Gaol, and Bridewell.

Two rooms , the largest, up stairs, 12 feet by 11. No court: no water: no sewer. Keeper lives at a little distance: salary, £i- fees, four shillings: no table. Allowance, three-halfpence a day: no.straw. Among the various improvements that are making in this town, may it not be hoped the corporation will think of a better prison

1776, Sep. 23, Prisoners 2.

1779, Sep. 20, — o. Deserters 2.

Basford Prison, for Debtors.

This is his majesty's gaol or prison of the court of record of his honour of Pcverel and additional limits of the same in the counties of Nottingham and Derby. Thomas Lord Middleton high steward. One room with three beds. The keeper said he had another little room for women-prisoners;but having none of that sex, he made use of it for his servants. The house is his freehold. Fees, 13*. 4 by the court-roll. — The debts were from forty shillings to fifty pounds, but now arc from ten pounds* to fifty pounds.

1776, Sep. 24, Prisoners 3.

1779, 20, — 2.

Sec 19 Geo. III. Cap. LXX.

LINCOLN-

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE.'

28$

COUNTY GAOL, LINCOLN CASTLE.

GAOLER, Isaac Wood.

Salary, none. But £154 a year to supply prisoners as Lincoln.

below; and to pay land-tax &c. (SeeRemarks.)

F"”

TransportSj, ^8: 8: 0 for each: and 13 4 fee Tab. Fees.)

He paid the cleric of assize a guinea for each.

Licence, Beer: which the gaoler brews. He lets the Tap.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, i f certified as in Remarksfame as felons.

Felons, each weekly 81b. bread, and 2d. for beef: in common yearly 2, for

coals: £29 llraw: and oatmeal.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec.Debtors. Felons &c«

1774, Jan. 27, 22, 11. 1776, Sep. 23, 12, 3.

-- O&, 29, 14, 9. 1779, May 6, 22, 14.

1776, Jan. 31, 23, 18.

CHAPLAINS, Rev. Mr. Simpson; and Dr. Waldgrave by his curate the Rev. Mr.

Duty, Mr. Simpson Wednesday and Friday j

Mr. Welling Sunday.

Salary, Mr. Simpson £5 be. fee Remarks; Dr. Wald-

grave about £ 3£ per legacy of Rebecca

SURGEON, Mr . Parnell.

Salary, £20.

THE castle belongs to the duchy of Lancaster. The county Rzmabk*, pays ten shillings a year. The gaoler, per contract, to keep it in repair. A spacious area of six or seven acres. On the ground floor are the gaoler's apartments, the tap-room be.

For mailer's-side debtors, fix sizeable rooms on the first story; and as many garrets. The floors of both stories are tarras, and cannot be kept clean: the passages only six feet wide, with windows* dole glazed,

Lincoln County Gaol.

LINCOLNSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

The free ward for debtors is only a room at the end of the building, down 2 steps. It is paved with small stones, and is a thorough-fare to sundry places. First, by a trap-door in the said pavement you go down 10 steps to two vaulted dungeons for criminals, 8 feet high; one, the Pit, 14 feet by 21, window 2 feet by 14 inches; the other, within it, the Condemned Cell, 14 feet by 8; window about9inches by 18: a little short straw on the floors: both dungeons offensive. — It is also a passage to the women-felons ward, which is 11 feet by 8 and to the felons small, court, and their sizeable day-room, 15 feet by 19: no water: no sewer; — and to a room for the closer confinement of debtors who do not behave well. There are two rooms with beds for felons who can pay for them; to which there is another way.

No chapel: service is performed in the Shire-hall. No infirmary. The a Sfor preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. The whole prison is out of repair, and left so perhaps because the county designs to build a new one.

Mr. Wood, besides the forementioned articles of his contract, is to furnish his prisoners with pails, and other utensils, to the amount of ^3 a year; and to pay yearly to prisoners in the King's Bench and Marshalsea, two guineas; all out of his/154.

In order to a debtor's being admitted to county allowance, it is required that he produce a certificate of his poverty signed by the minister, churchwardens and overseers of his parish. The debtors make considerable quantities of garters, purses &c. of a very good fort.

Mr. Simpson's salary, £5, is from a legacy of Thomas Hazledine; and for attending condemned criminals he has five guineas from the sheriff.

Rebecca Hufley by her will, proved in London 10th May 1715, bequeathed the interest of j£ioooo to release poor debtors from this castle: but no debtors have received the benefit for many years past. Thomas Hazledine left to the prisoners a year payable from the rent of a house in Lincoln. There is not in the gaol any memorial of bequests.*

On a tomb-tfene In the cathedral, is an inscription, noting that Clement Wood interred there, was thirty-eight years gaoler of the cattle, and of the city gaoL

A Table

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of the Gaol for the County of Lincoln — and Rules for Grvertanent — settled parfuant to a late A & for Relief of Debtors See.

£.S.D.

Every prisoner shall pay to the gaoler at hit first coming Into gaol

six shillings and eight-pence - o $ S

Every prisoner that will lodge in any chamber in the house shall pay to

the gaoler for his bed weekly - 013

If he will have the whole bed to himself, to pay weekly . o a €

But if two or more debtors lie in the same bed then to be paid amongst

them weekly - o a 6

And that the four chambers on the first floor shall be held and kept for such only as board in the house.

Every prisoner for debt to pay but one fee to the gaoler for his discharge out of the prison though he (lands committed in several actions, and the fee to be no more than six shillings and eight-pence - o 6 S

To the turnkey on the said discharge, one shilling - 0 1 o

Every felon to pay to the gaoler upon his discharge out of prison thirteen

shillings and four-pence - 0134

To the turnkey on the said discharge, one shilling - 010

The gaoler having the care of the felons condemned for transportation, sometimes three months, sometimes six months, and often longer, to be paid for each felon by the treasurer out of the county-money when be is taken out of gaol thirteen shillings and four-pence - o 13 4

Every prisoner committed from the bar, by the judge of assize or sessions to pay to the gaoler for his discharge thirteen shillings and four-pence 013 4 Every prisoner that will eat at the first table to pay five shillings a week

to the gaoler for his lodging and diet having three meals a day - 050

If he eats at the second table then he shall pay but four shillings a week

for his diet and lodging - >040

Every debtor that lies in the common grate may provide himself with a bed, bedding and (heets and pursuant to the Act have necessaries of life from any place . — between fix in the morning and fix at night from Lady-day to Michaelmas — between eight and four from Michaelmas to Lady-day — no more titan one quart of ale a day — brought in to one prisoner, to prevent disturbance&c. Every debtor — whom two justices — adjudge necessitous* — and every felon shall have S lb.weight of wholesome houshold bread, and -j- 1 lb. weight of beef delivered to them weekly.

Every debtor shall quietly — go to his chamber, between Lady-day and Michaelmas at nine in the evening — and between Michaelmas and Lady-day at eight and no later; whosoever shall refuse — shall on proof be deprived of his beef and bread by a justice for a time at discretion.

If any gaoler, turnkey or other officer, or any prisoner — require any — money from a new-come prisoner — -either for garnish money, chamber-money — cards

See Remarks preceding, f Instead ofthrs they have two-pence^

— seeing

187

Lincoln

Coowrir

Gaol,

Lincoln County Gaol.

v. a L Lie

LINCOLNSHIRE. Midland Cibcuit.

__seeing Lufey Tower — or any other account whatsoever, Shall — if a pri-

foner lose his allowance for a time at the discretion of a justice — if the gaoler tec. be punched as an extortioner according to law.

If the gaoler or any of his fub-officers shall at any time from hence think it safe to take off any felon's irons, if a common felon he shall pay the sum of two shillings and sixpence a week and no more — If a gentleman or better fort of criminal then he shall take the sum of five shillings per week and no more

Any person removed by bdbtai ccrpus to pay the same fees as other prisoners when

discharged.

A prisoner making water — so as to annoy — or washing hands in the bucket — to lose his allowance for a time See.

We his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the Division of Lindsey in the County of Lincoln, Assembled — at Spiliby have examined the above Table of Fees with the Rules and Orders — and do allow and confirm the same — the 12th day of April 1768

Ric Wright W Marshall Ed Wills H:

We his Majesty's Justices — for the Division of Kesteven — assembled — at Sleaford — do allow and confirm the same — 13th April 1768

John Thorald Robt. Burnt Ded Jones Leo: Brvwn.

We his Majesty's Justices — for the Division of Holland — assembled — at Boston — do allow and confirm the same 14th July 1768

Ri Falkner H. B. Pacey Ri Fydell J Linton Junr.

We the Judges of Assize for the County of Lincoln have reviewed the above Table of Fees with the Rules and Orders therein contained, and do hereby confirm the fame. Witness our hands this 25th day of July 1768.

T. Parker.

£. Clive.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Gainsborough. Three rooms, and a work-room below, and two rooms up stairs: a small court: no water: no draw: no allowance: no work. Conveyance to quarter sessions at

This order hying somewhat fingoUr, I have transcribed it verbatim.

keeper's

k_

r

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE;

289

keeper's expense. His salary, /30.No fees. — Might be im- Bride-proved on the keeper's garden. WAtL*

1776, Jan. 30, Prisoners 3.

1779, May 6, — 5. Lunatics 3.

Folkingham. In this prison under the keeper's house are five damp rooms, two of which are used for a lunatic, who has been confined here some years. By a trap-door in the floor of one of these rooms, you go down eight steps into a dungeon. No chimney: small court: no pump: no sewer.

Yet a woman with a child at her breast was sent hither for a year and a day: the child died. Conveyance to quarter sessions at keeper's expense. His salary, £36': out of which he must allow each prisoner fix-pennyworth of bread a week. Fees,9s.4 d.no table.

1774, 0(51.28, Prisoners 4.

1779, May 5, — 2. Lunatic 1.

Spalding. This prison, lately built, has several sizeable airy rooms 13 feet by 10: chimneys in two of them. A workroom 28 feet by 9^. The under-rooms vaulted, i2i feet by 9*-. There is a pump now in the court, which not being secure, the prisoners have no access to it. Allowance, three pence a day. When they work they have three fourths of the profit j turnkey, the remainder. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up: as also is the late act for preserving the health of prisoners, neatly painted on a small board.

Keeper's salary, £38: fees, 5*. no table. Surgeon's salary, j£i2. In the nine years preceding 1779, there were 387 prisoners.

1776, Feb. 2, Prisoners 4.

1779, Mar. 29, — 13.

--- 0<5f. 11, — 2.

A distracted woman has been confined about three years.

LINCOLN

LINCOLNSHIRE. Midland Circuit,

LINCOLN CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

Lincoln, GAOLER, Francis Toyn.

Salary, /20.

Fees, Debtors,} -

Felons, 5 *°: 6:

Transports, j£io each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, one shilling a week.

Garnish, one shilling.

Number. Debtor*. Felons &c. Debtor*. Felons.

1774, Jan. 27, 3, 2. 1776, Sep. 23, O, 2.

1776,-- 31, o, 1. 1779, May 6, I, O.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

Rkmark*. THIS gaol, at the Stone-bow gate, has one large room for men-debtors, one smaller for women, both up Hairs: in each a fire-place. The rooms for criminals are two dungeons down three steps; with bedsteads, that they may not sleep on the damp earth floor. In one of them is a cage for closer confinement when necessary. These prisoners are sometimes taken into the keeper's house. No court: no water accessible to prisoners: no draw. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

City of Lincoln and County of the same , to

A Table of — Rates and Fees — settled by the Jaflices — at a General Quarter Sessions — held at the Guild-Hall — within the first whole week next after the Translation of St. Thomas the Martyr to wit, on the 14th dty of July in the 33d — of George II. — *1759 r*-r-»ant to — -an Act for Relief of Debtors c.

V D.

I »*or he* >0 a bed belonging to the keeper Is to pay ooe

JRrrtkly and no more - . _ > o X O

jKf that finds a bed and places it in the common room is to pay ing for hi* lodging - . o o

Every

1' *1 "'V

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE.

C S. D.

Every prisoner for debt is to pay one fee to the keeper for his discharge out of prison though he {lands committed in several actions and that fee no more than six shillings and eight pence - 0 6 8

I very felon is to pay to the gaoler for his discharge out of prison six shillings and eight pence and no more - o 6 8

If not continued in prison above a week then to pay only three shillings and four pence - 034

Every prisoner that will eat with the gaoler is to pay for his lodging and diet weekly four shillings and six pence having three meals a day 046 Every prisoner committed from the bar by the judge of assize or sessions is to pay the gaoler for his discharge three shillings and four pence and no more - > 034

29I

Likcolm.

Rob, Obbinfon, Mayor

Jnfi. Hooton

Rob* Thickjion

In°. Davies

Ger, GibJon EvA, Fowl John Wilson EdvA. Letberland

Robt. Dre

John Brown Broxm,

We the Judges of Assize for the City of Lincoln and County of the same City have reviewed this Table of Fees and do hereby confirm the fame. Given under our Hands this 9th day of August 1759.

T Parker Ja Hewitt.

Examined by Jofp. Peart clerk of the peace.

Boston Town Gaol.

This is also the bridewell. Two damp offensive rooms 5 i

about 14 feet square, and over them two rooms for women, j,

and two rooms adjoining for debtors. No court: no water. j

Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Salary, as J

gaoler, £10; as keeper, £$, Fees, ar. 6 1 j

1779, Oft; 11, Debtors none. Felons &c. 2. j

Stamford Town Gaol.

The gate which was the old prison is taken down, and a new prison is built at the town-hall. One good room for debtors in the keeper's house; for other prisoners two cells,

U t2

n

2<)2

LINCOLNSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

Stam- 12 feet by 8: the window in each only 2 feet by 5 inches:

oao* and a bridewell-room 16 feet by 8: the window here also too

small, 2 feet by 1 foot 8 inches.

Allowance to felons, two pence a day. Salary, as gaoler, 4; as keeper, £3: 6: 8. Fees,; which, though not

signed, I transcribe for the singularity of an article or two.

1776, Feb. 10, Debtors o. Felons &c. 1.

The Town or Borough of Stamford in the County of

A Table of Fees settled &c. — at the Quarter Sessions held by Adjournment 28th Augustst729 &c.

If they find themselves bedding, then for cleaning the room each week 010

For Felons &c. that lie on the Common-fide,

For gaoler's fees for the gaol _ _ , o 10 e

To the smith ironing and taking off - o a o

Lodging for each night - _ _ - o o a

Sep. 26, 1779,---2I>

o.

o.

2.

o.

£. S. D.

For every arrest upon bail

For waiting for bail one shilling/vr hour

Bail fees to the gaol

For diet each day, if not find themselves For lodging each night, if not find themselves

010

004

o 10 o

o 6

To the person who executes sentence of pillory, burning in the hand.

To the keeper of the house of correction for every person that is com-

er whipping

oxo

twitted for the first night

Every day lha‘ Person continues in custody for attendance

is com-

006

001

1

RUTLAND-

*93

COUNTY GAOL At OAKHAM.

GAOLER, William Lunow

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, 1 ,

Felons, 1 *: I0-

Transports, £io each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors,

Felons

Garnish,

Number,

Oakham.

rs 7

two fix-penny loaves a week, one shilling.

Debtors. Felons &c.

1774, Jan. 23, 0, 0. 1779, Mar. 28, 5»

1775, Nov. 10, I, 2. Deserters 3-

1776, Sep. 26, 0, 0. Sep. 21, 3>

Debtors. Felons &c.

5-

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Bullivant, now Mr. Berry.

Salary, £5: 5: °-

THIS is also the county bridewell and the town gaol; yet Remarks. I found it twice empty. On the ground floor is a day-room or kitchen for debtors: — a day-room, and two small night-rooms for felons; one of which being very small and quite close, the gaoler has made apertures in the door, one at top, the other at bottom: — and a large work-room. The whole prison is thatched.

Up stairs are two rooms strongly planked with oak: in each of them are two beds, for those that pay.

There were no rooms proper for the separation of men and women, or of bridewell prisoners from felons; but lately one room has been fitted up in the barn for that purpose.

The felons court is parted off with strong wooden palisades; which intercepting the pump, the justices have been so considerate as to put down another pump in the felons court. They have also ordered the gaoler to provide some clothing for the

U 3 moll

*94

Oakham County Gaol.

Northampton.

Remarks.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

mod destitute prisoners. His salary as keeper of the bridewell is £20. No table of fees. A& for preferring the health of prisoners not hung up.

The present gaoler's father, grandfather and great grandfather, held the same office.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at NORTHAMPTON.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports. Licence,

John Scofield.

now £30. He pays the county £40 a year. Debtors, ? r^

Felons, 5^: 15 = 4'

If two, £7 each j if more,: 16: 6 each. Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two-pennyworth of bread a day (weight Jan. 1775, I I cz.) and now two pence for meat. Garnish, Debtors, £0: 6: 0.

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felons&c.

1773, Nov. 9> 8. 1776, Jan. 5> 7> 12.

1774, April 5* 6, 4- 1779, Mar. x4> 9-

1775, Jan. 2* 8, 7- — Nov. 24> I5>

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Miller.

Duty, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday.

Salary, /40.

SURGEON, Mr. Kerr, r Salary, none. APOTHECARY, Mr. Breton. J They make a bill.

THIS gaol is also the county bridewell j but petty offenders are kept separate from felons. Mr. Scofield had a salary of

Ci

£36: 10: 0 as keeper, and now as gaoler he has £30 added. Two courts;but that for felons is too close. No straw. The county have built seven commodious rooms, for one felon each: yet there are still two dungeons 11 steps under ground. The gaol was clean, and the gaoler attentive and humane to his prisoners. Debtors, felons, and petty offenders were at work, spinning, making pegs for shoemakers &c.

The chapel was the upper room in the gaoler's house, when it must have been painful for prisoners loaded with irons to go up and down the stairs j but now it is more conveniently situated. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. A table of fees is now signed and hung up: that which the gaoler shewed me on my former visits was neither dated, signed, nor hung up; which occasioned my saying in the former edition, “ no table of fees.”

Northamptonshire, to wit. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace — holden at Northampton, in and for the said County on Thursday — the Sixteenth Day of January, in the Seventeenth Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George the Third — before the Reverend John Hill, Doctor of Laws; Ambrose Ifted, Esq. Brook Bridges, and Charles Addington, Clerks; Justices of oar said Lord the King, See.

It is ordered, by this Court, that the following Rates and Fees be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol for the said County; and no other:

£. S. D.

For the lodging of every prisoner for debt, in his house, week, o a o

For the discharge of every such prisoner out of custody for debt, 013 4

Ditto to the turnkey, - 0 1o

For the copy of every warrant, - 010

For signing a certificate, in order to obtain,a - 020

For registering a declaration, - 010

For attending with every prisoner in order to give bail, or be otherwise discharged for debt, within the town of Northampton. - o a o

And it is further ordered, that the above Table of Fees be laid before the Judges, at the next Assizes to be holden for the said county, for their revisal and confirmation; and, if the same shall be so con'll 4 firmed.

295

Northampton County Gaol.

296

Northampton County Gaol.

Bride.

WELLS.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

firmed, that a copy thereof be hung up in some conspicuous part of the prison, and another copy in the grand-jury gallery.

By the Court,

Clerk of the Peace.

We, the Judges of Assize for the county of Northampton, have reviewed, and do hereby confirm, the above-written Table of Fees. Given under our hands, at the Assizes holden at Northampton, the fourth day of March, 1777.

S. S. Smythe.

G. Nares.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Kettering. This prison is in the back court of the keeper's public house. A room for men 18 feet by 15 Down 3 Heps a lodging room 8 feet by 5 with an aperture in the door 15 inches by n. Court 19^ feet square. For women, a separate court and a room about the same size as the men's day-room: clay floors: windows close glazed. No water: no sewer. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, 12. Fees, 2 6 Receives

rent of the county/15: 10: o.

1779, Oct. 12, Prisoners 2.

Oundle. Several rooms in a ruinous house rented by the county. Keeper's salary, £12. Fees, No table.

1779, Sep* 22>? Xo Prisoners.

--- Oct. 12,3

Northampton Town Gaol.

Two rooms for felons, and one for debtors. The centlemcn of the corporation have nnv mace a cocrt for the debtors, and one for the felons, with fewer* &c, FGor.s arc allowed two pence

a day

Midland Circuit. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

297

a day each. The gaoler is a bailiff and sheriff's officer: has No*t*-no salary: pays rent, £3. Fees, 13X. 4 No table. A*irTow.

1776, Jan. 5, Debtors 2. 1779, Nov. 24, Debtors I.

1779, Mar. 25,----- I. Deserter 1.

Peterborough Gaol,

For the liberty called the Soke, which contains thirty-two towns, is the property of Lord Exeter. It is now also the prison of the dean and chapter of the cathedral church of the Borough of St. Peter otherwise Peterborough.

Two rooms for debtors, and down 3 steps a room called the Gaol; near which is the condemned room: the court having power of life and death. A malefa&or was executed here a few years ago. No allowance. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up. Keeper's salary, £12: fees, 7 x.8 the table neither

ligned nor dated. He pays window-tax.

1774, Oct. 28, Debtors 2.

1776, Sep. 26, — 3. Deserter 1.

1779, Sep. 21, — I.

Peterborough Bridewell,

For the SoAe, as above, has on the ground floor a large work-lhop, and a room lately divided into a part for men, and another for women. Up stairs, two rooms or hemp-warehouses: the keeper a hemp-dresser. A very small court i not secure: prisoners always within doors. No water. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary only £8: fees, 3*. 6 d.no table.

1774, O&. 28, Prisoner 1. 1779, Sep. 21, Prisoner I.

1776, Sep. 26, — 1.

Daventry Gaol.

Close rooms. No court: no water.

177b> J*n# 5>^ n0 Prisoners.

1779, Nov. 24,3

Brackley

BERKSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit,

Brackley Gaol.

A room called the Dungeon, 4 feet square, under the stair-case of the Town-hall: an oval aperture in the door 8 inches by 6. The constable is gaoler. No court: no water.

1779, Oct. 13, No prisoners.

OXFORD CIRCUIT.

BERKSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at READING.

GAOLER, The Widow after her John Hilly

now his Widow.

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 16: 10.

Felons, o: 14: 4.

Transports, £2: 2: 0 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, three pence a day each.

Garnish, Debtors, j£o: 5: 6.

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec.Debtors. Felons

1773, Dec. 11, 11, 11. 1776, Nov. 1, 3, 8.

1774. Juty 29> 6. 1779, April 21, 9, 9.

1776, Jan. 1, 9, 15. Impressed Men 19.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Webjler.

Duty, Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary, £31: 10: 0.

SURGEON, Mr. Tylleard.

Salary, £\q for gaol and bridewell.

DEBTORS

Oxford Circuit,

BERKSHIRE,

READING.

DEBTORS and felons have their courts separated by iron rails. The former have a kitchen: and for the master's-side many rooms; but no free ward. Felons have a day-room for men and women. The night-room for men is a large dungeon down four steps: the prisoners broke out lately. A separate night-room for women. The turnkey has now a lodging-room, over the felons dungeon, with an alarm-bell;so that an escape will be more difficult. There is lately fitted up a small room for an infirmary; and another room or two: but no provision made for separating men-felons at night; nor for common-side debtors. There is a room used for the gaoler's poultry. Transports had not the king's allowance of 2 s.6 d,a week. No table of fees. Clauses against spirituous

liquors not hung up. No straw. The common-side debtors pay is, 6d, and the master's-side a week for lodging.

The chapel is much too small. — I observed at my last visit, that the act for preserving the health of prisoners was painted on a board in the debtors court.

About six years ago a gentleman sent to this gaol for the prisoners thirty-six rugs or coverlets: most of them now worn out.

When felons come to this prison, they are washed, and put on clothes provided by the county. The men have a Russia-drab coat and breeches, a flannel waistcoat, two check shirts, and two pair of yarn hose: the women, a linfey woolfey gown and petticoat, a flannel petticoat, two dowlafs shifts, two pair of yarn hose. Their own clothes are ticketed and hung up till the quarter sessions or assizes; when they put them on again to appear in on trial. Afterwards the county-clothes are washed, mended, and purified in an oven, for the use of future criminals. The clothing aforesaid for twenty men and five women cost only £26: 6: 8.

The following verses are written over the debtors grate to the street:

Oh ye whose hours exempt from sorrow flow.

Behold the feat of pain and want and woe:

Think, while your hands th' entreated alms extend,

That what to us ye give to Cod ye lend,

COUNTY

299

Rkadihq

County Gaol.

Remarks,

Bridk-

WULt.

BERKSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Reading. This is also the town bridewell. It was formerly a church, and is a spacious room, with four small dark huts on one side for night-rooms. — The county pays rent to the corporation. — It is dirty, and out of repair. Women and men are together in the day-time. No court: no water: allowance to felons, three pence a day; and to petty offenders, two five-farthing loaves each, every Sunday, and one every week-day. Keeper's salary, /18 from the county; £z from the town: fees, 4*. 4 d.no table: licence for beer: half the profit of the prisoners work: /2 a year to find them straw. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up: and there were painted on a board, some orders to be observed in the bridewell, approved by J. P. Andrews and Ferd. Collins^ justices, at the quarter sessions, April 28, 1778.

1776, Jan. 1, Prisoners 6.

—— Nov. 1, — 6.

1779, April - 7*

Abingdon. Two day-rooms; and two dark offensive night-

rooms: that for men 8 feet square: the women's,9by 8: no chimney: no court: no water. The petty offenders were in irons. One lately died of the small pox. Allowance, threepence a day. Keeper's salary, £18: fees, 45. 4

no table. Half the profit of the prisoners work; but at both my visits they had no employment.

177^> Jan. 2, Prisoners 3.

1779, April 22, — 3.

Reading Town Gaol or Compter.

Three rooms in a public house (the Reading Arms) be-onging to the town. The eldest sergeant.has generally the rctufalofit. No court: no water. Felons allowance, threo pence a day. Keeper no salary: fees, 4*. 4 no tabic.

177 Nov. 1, Debtors 2.

1779. April 21, No Prisoners.

Abingdon

Oxford Circuit^

BERKSHIRE.

3C*

Abingdon Town Gaol.

Several rooms over a gate-way. The first floor, for debtors: above are rooms for felons &c. No court: no water* Allowance to felons, three pence a day. Keeper, one of the sergeants at mace: no salary: fees, debtors 3*. 4 felons 6r. 8 no table: licence for beer.

1779, April 22, Debtor 1. Felons &c. none.

Windsor Castle Prison, for Debtors.

I need not observe that his Majesty is proprietor. The duke of Montague is constable: he appoints a janitor with a salary: the janitor appoints a deputy, who for a house rent-free, and certain perquisites, does the duty. The prison out of repair. The preamble in the table of fees for the honour and castle of Windsor recites, “ that complaint having been made to me “ of some abuses and irregularities committed in demanding' and receiving fees — the table being defaced, so that the “ words and figures are hardly legible,” &c. This table was made May 10th, the first year of George II. 1728. subscribed Carlisle. There seems the same ground of complaint with respect to the present table being defaced. As the fees are lower here than in most other prisons, the table should be preserved to prevent impositions.

1776, March 1, Prisoners 2.

1779, I0> — i-

Windsor Town Gaol.

Two rooms; a chimney in one: no court: no water. Keeper, a sergeant at mace: no salary: fees, 6 s. 8 no table.

Allowance, three pence a day.

1776, March 1, Prisoners 3.

1779, March 10, — 1.

Wallingford Town Gaol.

Two rooms: one of them is called the Bailiff's Ward. Under them is a large dungeon, filled with market benches for flails &c. 1776, Nov. 1, Deserter 1. 1779, Oct. 20, No Prisoners.

1779, April 22, Prisoner 1.

OXFORD-

OXFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit,

COUNTY GAOL, OXFORD CASTLE,

Oxford. GAOLER, Solomon

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors,: 9: 2.

Felons, o: 15: 10.

Transports. He made a bill of the expense.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks,)

Felons, 16 each week in bread.

Garnish* lately cancelled.

Number, Debtors. Felons Debtors. Felon

1773, Nov. 26,^13. 1776, oa. 31, 7, 14.

1774, July At17- 1779»Fcb- *S> *5* 1776, J an. 2, 13, 10. --- July 29, 13, 4.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. now Rev. Mr. Cotton,

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday j the sacramant

four times a year.

I Salary, £50, now £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Rawlins.

Salary, £1$ for felons.

Rsmasks. FOR the castle gaol the county pays £40 a year to Mr. Etty, who holds it of Christ Church college on lease. Debtors apartments small; and not enow of them for the general number of prisoners. No free ward: for lodging even in the tower on

their own beds they must pay is. 6d. a week: the table.

Their court is too small. Felons day-room or hall for men and women down 5 steps, 21 feet by 15: the men's dungeon down 5 more; only a small window: the women's night-room feet by 4;no window. The court common to both, 29 feet by 23. The gaoler has a spacious garden.

Since the north-gate was taken down, this prison has been also the city gaol: for which Mr. Wisdom has £$ a year. — In 1773, eleven died of the small pox. In 1774, that dillem-per still in the gaol: in 1775, one debtor died of it in May j three debtors and a petty offender in June: three recovered. No infirmary: no draw. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up,

Oxford Circuit. OXFORDSHIRE. 503*

Thomas Horde, who was confined here for some offence Oxroto against government, built the chapel. After his discharge, Cowntt he had bequeathed £14 a year for a chaplain; and as much to AOt* the prisoners. But finding some difficulties would obstruct the execution of that bequest, he altered it, August 6th, 1709, to a legacy of £24 a year to be distributed among prisoners of both forts, at £2 a month. For the payment, he bound an estate in Oxfordshire: and to make up any deficiency of that estate, he bound an estate in Berkshire. Yet the prisoners have now only thirty-three shillings a month, which is paid by the retftor of Lincoln college, who is always one of the twelve trustees. A memorial of the process and result of Mr. Horde's benevolent intention hangs up in the gaol. I have a copy of it; too long to transcribe.

There is another legacy to prisoners of both forts;8r. % d. paid quarterly from Magdalen college. From which also in Lent there is about forty shillings, commonly called forfeit-money. Debtors have in common every Saturday six pounds of mutton; sent by a gentleman of Christ Church college. From two other colleges they have in bread about 2 a week. Christ Church and New college fend them broth $ generally three times in a fortnight: the prisoners pay four pence to the man who brings it.

It is very probable that the rooms in this castle are the same as the prisoners occupied at the time of the Black Jjfize. The wards are close and offenfivcj so that if crowded, I should not greatly wonder to hear of another fatal ajfze at Oxford.*

Oxfordshire, (Tower) Michaelmas Sessions 34th George II. — 1760.

A Table of Fees — and Chamber-Rent — settled — in pursuance of an Act 32d of his present Majesty — for the Relief of Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

To the matter-keeper for every warrant charged upon any debtor 068 To the under-keeper - 0 2 0

To him for every other warrant - 010

Mr. Wisdom (the gaoler) told me that about nine years ago, wanting to build a little hovel, and digging up ttones for the purpose, from the ruins of the court, which was formerly in the cattle, he found under them a complete lkcleton with light chains on the legsj the links very final!. These were, probably, the bones of a malefactor who died in court of the distemper at the Black difixx mentioned page 11.

To

304*

Oxford

County Gaol.

Fmni.

WILLS.

OXFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circoit.

£.s.d.

To the master-keeper for every prisoner committed by any justice of peace for treason, felony, or any other misdemeanour; or committed in court - o 13 4

To the under-keeper - 0*6

To the master-keeper for receiving and entering every declaration against any debtor - o»6-

To his certificate that no declaration filed - 010

For a copy of every sheriff's warrant - 010

For a copy of every other warrant , -016

Every prisoner that lyeth in the great chamber on the gaol side in the keeper's lodgings pays by the week - 010

Every prisoner that lyeth in any other room or chamber in the keeper's lodgings on the gaol side payeth by the week - 0 2 6

Every prisoner that lyeth in the great room in the tower upon his own bed payeth by the week - 016

Every prisoner that lyeth in the fard great room on the keeper's bed

payeth by the week - 0 j S

We — his Majesty's Justices of the Peace of the County of Oxford (whereof some of us are of the Quorum) have perused the Fees and Chamber-Rent above mentioned and do — allow thereof and direct, the same to be hung up in a Table in some open and public room or place in the said Cattle there to remain and be resorted to by every prisoner as occasion shall require.

! Thomas Blachall Ei/J. burner Pardo Anthony Keck

*Theophilus Leigh The*. Hunt Wr.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Thame. I was informed that this house, built in iyc8, was given to the county for a bridewell; but the greatest part of it is now a parish work-house. For the prison there is only left, up stairs, a common day-room, and a small insecure lodging-room: and down 11 steps a dungeon, in which are three night-rooms, the Cubs, each9feet by 7. If the house put into good repair, and the whole used as a bridewell, would be a commodious one. Then there would be no need of fending petty offenders, as is now done, to the county gaol: nor of locking up all day long those few that are c°mniitted hither, men and women in the same room: nor of

Oxford Circuit. OXFORDSHIRE. 305

confining either sex at night in the Cubs. No allowance: Bride-

no employment at my first visits, but in Feb. 1779, the v,*Lts*

prisoners were carding and spinning: no water: no sewers.

Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, £16: fees, 4*. 6 d.no table.

At my former visits the keeper farmed the work-house and the rest of the poor at £480 a year for the whole maintenance, clothing, medicines &c. — From midsummer 1778 to midsummer 1779, twenty-six persons were committed to this prison.

1776, Jan. 3, Prisoners 2. 1779, Feb. 25, Prisoners 4.

— Nov. 2, — 3. — OCt. 20, — o. '

WiTKEY. One day-room about 17 feet by 15 for men and women: two night-rooms adjoining about 10 feet by 6, 1

and 6 feet 2 inches high; with only a grate of about9inches fiquare in each door. The prison is not secure. No allowance but to the sick, who have six pence a day and medicines. j

No chimney: no straw: no water. Clauses against fpi- '

rituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, £20: fees, j

4*. 2 d.no table.

The house does not belong to the county: the prison is in the court-yard of the keeper's public house, for which -he t

pays £13: 7: 0 a year. Prisoners have no use of the court;

but their window is accessible to passengers. I saw a crowd

of men talking at the grate with the prisoners, who were all of them women; and was informed there is sometimes riot and confusion on such occasions.

At my visit in 1779, the prisoners were at work: the keeper now is a manufacturer, and employs them all. He pays them for their work, two pence a pound for the,

and three-halfpence for th& shoot' % so that each earns about i

thre ? pence a day.

To this prison were committed,

In e year 1773, Prisoners 49. In the year 1775, 73.

1774, — 44* ToOCt. 31, 1776, 67.

The most at any one time 18.

1 Vhen I was there in 1776, OCt 31, Prisoners 6.

1779, Feb. 26, — 7.

306

WORCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit*

WORCESTER.

Remarks.

COUNTY GAOL, WORCESTER CASTLE.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

William Crane, now his Widow, none.

Debtors, £o: 9: 2.

Felons, 0: 15: 10.

No benefit to the gaoler. Clerk of the peace contracted with the merchants.

Beer.*

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, three-pennyworth of bread a day each* Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons See.Debtors. Felons&c.

1773, Nov* 23>*5> J7* 1776, Sep. 10, 9, 10.

1774, July 2, 13, 12. 1779, May 18, 19, 8.

1775, Dec. 1, 25, 17.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Taylor. Duty, Friday.

Salary, /20.

SURGEON, Mr . Hallward.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

THE castle-yard is spacious: county members are chosen in it. In the gaoler's house are many good lodging-rooms for master's-fide debtors; and two small day-rooms; one of which is for common-fide debtors: one of these was used, at my former visits, as a chapel; but now there is fitted up a larger and more convenient room for that purpose. The free ward, or night-room for debtors, is at another part of the yard The way to it is through the women-felons night-room. e day-room for men and women-felons is in the middle of*1' area; only 14 feet by 12. Near it is a hand-ventilator 'iring the mcn-felons dungeon, which is 26 steps under gro'; and

See page 170. t This is kept in order for a guinea a year.

c ularf

Oxford Circuit. WORCESTERSHIRE.

circular, 18 feet diameter, with barrack bedsteads. Over it is an aperture in the court, with an iron grate. The felons work the ventilator cheerfully about a quarter of an hour before they go down, and as long when they come up;for it freshens and cools the dungeon amazingly: we could hardly keep our candle burning below while it was working. Excellent water at a pump in the yard. Straw, ^4 a year. No infirmary. Mr. Hallward the surgeon caught the gaol fever some years ago, and has ever since been fearful of going into the dungeon: when any felon is sick there, he orders him to be brought out. v The gaoler pays near £4 window-tax. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. The afor preserving the health of prisoners is written on paper, and hung up.

This prison maybe made commodious by separate wards, courts &c. There is round it much ground belonging to the county.

County of Worcester. A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Gaoler of the said County pursuant to a Statute made in the second year of his Majesty King George the Second.

For the discharge of every debtor, to the gaoler To the turnkey -

For the discharge of every felon, to the gaoler To the turnkey -

For the discharge of every deserter, to the gaoler To the turnkey -

For the lodging of every prisoner in the house/rr week For signing every certificate -

Allowed according to the said Statute by us

y So/ey IV Bromley Fre Meyfey.

£. S. D.

068

- o 2 fc o 13 4

- 026

o 6 8

ox6

- oa6

- 010

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WORCESTER.

This prison joins to the castle. It is too close; especially the men's night-room j which has now a window. Here are work-rooms; and the prisoners were employed, beating hemp, spinning &c. Keeper has half the profit. Two courts. The house might be enlarged on the county ground. Keeper's salary, £20: fees, 1 /. 4 d.Straw, ten shillings a quarter: no

307

Worcester County Gaol.

Bridewell.

308

Worcester Bridewell.

Remarks.

WORCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

other allowance. At my last visit there was a new keeper, and the prison was remarkably clean.

If there were a chapel in the county gaol (the castle), these prisoners might (as those in Shrewsbury bridewell) have the privilege of public worship.

1775, Dec. 1, Prisoners 3. 1779, May 18, Prisoners 6.

1776, Sep. 10, — 18.

WORCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

Richard George, now his Widow* none.

Debtors, £0: 9: 2.

Felons, 0: 5: 0.

No benefit to the gaoler.

Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, three pence a day each.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c, Debtors. Felons Src.

1773, Nov. 23, 4, 5. 1776, Sep. 10, 4, 0.

1775, Dec. I, 5, o. 1779, May 18, 6, 4.

impressed Men3. Deserters 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr.

Salary,. none: he makes a bill.

THIS is also the city bridewell. The debtors free ward is spacious. Only one day-room for criminals. One common court: another might be taken from the keeper's large garden. At my former visits he paid window-tax j which he said >j;ht him under the disagreeable necessity of flopping up

some

some windows; but this is now taken off. Clauses against fspiritqous liquors not hung up. As to cleanliness, I found this a contrail to the prison just mentioned.

City of Worafter, A Table of Fees to be taken by (he Gaoler

of the said City pursuant to a Statute m^de in the thirty-fegand year of the reign of his late Majesty King George the Second.

For the discharge of every debtor to the gaoler and turnkey The like of every felon -

For the lodging of every prisoner in the house week For the copy of every commitment - f -

Pn the delivery of every declaration

£. S. D. 092 O5O 0 2 6 OIO O I

Allowed according to (he said Statute by us

Epiphany Sessions 1771. , Edw*. r, Mayor

Tho Giles YinQ Edwards,

At the Lent Assize 1771 allowed by us

E. Willes W: H: Ashvrst.

Kidderminster Town Gaol.

Two rooms called dungeons about 10 feet by 8, down 6 ileps, under the market-house. No court: no water: no sewer. Debtors from the court of requests are cleared in forty days. The cryer is keeper, has a shilling a month for attendance* and a shilling for draw.

1779, Aug. 30, No prisoners.

S°9

Worcester.

Stafford.

Remarks.

STAFFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at STAFFORD.

GAOLER, William Scott.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £o l 17: 4.

Felons, o: 15: 10.

Transports, £6 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, £ each per week 15 bread, and 9 Felons, 5 cheese; and for the felons 3 Cwt.

of coals a week from Michaelmas to May-day.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 14.

Felons, cancelled by the gaoler.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons

1773, Nov. 19, 39, 20. 1775, Nov. 15, 40, 18.

1774, April 1, 44, 17. 1779, May 15, 40, 14.

Impressed Men 11.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Unett.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday; a sermon once

in about two months.

Salary, lately augmented from/ao to 30.

SURGEON, Mr. Ward, now Mr. Richard Hughes.

Salary, £20. (See Remarks.)

THIS gaol is too small for the number of prisoners. The debtors court and free-ward are spacious. In the latter is a hand-ventilator for the men-felons dungeon which is under it; but being out of repair, has not been used for some years. Were the county to allow the small sum of a guinea a year, it might always be kept in order, as is done in Worcester cattle. An alarm-bell in this crowded gaol would be very proper. — One small day-room for men and women-felons, down 3 steps. The dungeon where the men-felons sleep is very close, having no window, and is about 2 feet below the passage. The

J

Si*

felons court is also too small. It is pity that the stream just on the outside of the walls is not within them. I was pleased to fee plenty of clean Jlraw in both dungeons; and found it was owing to the generous and exemplary practice of farming it, but allowing the gaoler to order it whenever wanted, and the county paying for it them. The chapel is small, and at the top of the house. No infirmary.

Mr. Hughes is apothecary to the county infirmary, which is near the gaol. He receives £8 of the salary of 20allowed by the county; the remaining £12 is paid to the infirmary for drugs.

A Table of Fees — settled at the General Quarter Sessions —

18th day of April 1732.

^ £ St

For entering the action whereon each prisoner is first brought into

custody either on process capias latitate execution or writ of excom ad

capiendum and discharging each prisoner by writ of supersedeas or otherwise - 0134

For receiving and entering every declaration delivered against prisoners

to be paid by the plaintiff in such action - 020

For a certificate for want of a declaration in order to sue out a writ of supersedeas ' - 036

For a copy of each warrant against each prisoner - 016

For the under keeper or turnkey upon every action or writ - 016

For the under keeper or turnkey upon discharging of each prisoner

by supersedas or otherwise - 016

LODGINGS.

Every prisoner that lies in the matter's-side of the gaol in a bed provided

by the keeper of the gaol shall pay per week if a bed to himself o»o

If two prisoners or more lye together in one bed then between them all o 2 6 Every prisoner that lies in the upper rooms or garret in a bed and bedding

found by the keeper of the gaol shall pay per week - 010

And if two prisoners lie together then - 016

Every prisoner that lies in the same side and finds his own linnen and

bedsteads - 006

Every prisoner that lies in the county chamber shall pay nothing. 000

E Littleton Hum: Wyrly Fish Littleton R. Rider Jno.

We the Judges of Assize and Gaol Delivery of the Oxford Circuit have perused and do approve of the above written Table of Fees this 2d day of August Anno Dam. 1732.

X4

E Probyn J Comyns.

COUNTY

Staf-fok n

COUNTY

Gaol.

STAFFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Stafford. At the North-gate. Work-rooms and bedrooms, separate, for men and women. There is a new keeper, the prison is now clean, and the prisoners are employed in spinning;but the wheels do not belong to the county. Prisoners always (hut up, the small court not being secure. Keeper's salary, £25. Allowance, the same as at the gaol, coals excepted.

1775, Nov. 15, Prisoners 4.

1779, May 15, — 9.

Wolverhampton. Only two rooms about 12 feet square, viz. a common day-room on the ground floor; and a night-room above, for men: women deep in the day-room. No court: no water: no employment. "Weekly allowance in bread, fourteen pence: cheese, seven pence: straw, three pence. Keeper's salary, £25: fees, one shilling. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

The prison is greatly out of repair; and insecure that prisoners, even for the slighted offences, are kept in irons. The county may redress this;for they have a large garden close to the prison, which they let with an old house on the spot.

1776, Sep. 11, Prisoners Men.

1779, Aug. 23, — 2 Women.

Litchfield City Gaol.

Two close cells feet by 5I, and 8 feet high. To these are added two new ones, and two rooms for debtors; a court is enclosed, in which is an offensive fewer. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. No water: no straw. Keeper's salary, £2: fees, 13*. no table. Allowance,

u. 6 d.a week.

1773, Nov. 20, Prisoners 2.

1776, Jan. 8, — 1.

1779, Nov. 26, Debtors 3. Felon 1.

SHROP-

-by

3*3

COUNTY GAOL at SHREWSBURY.

GAOLER, Samuel

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors,: 9: 0.

Felons, o: 14: 4. Transports, £6: 6: 0 each. Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, two fix-penny loaves a week each.

Felons, is. 4 ± in bread a week each.

Garnish, lately cancelled. (See Remarks.)

Number, Debtors. Felons &c.

1774,

1775.

177<S.

1779,

March 31, Nov. 27, Sept. 12, May 15, Aug. 24,

12,

16,

21,

*3>

18.

*5-

24.

18.

10.

(See Remarks.) Impressed 1. Deserter 1.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Humphreyr, now Rev. Mr..Duty, Sunday and Thursday. (See Remarks.)

Salary. £35.

SURGEON, Mr. C

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

APOTHECARY, Mr. James Salary, none: he makes a bill.

Shrewi-

sort.

THIS prison was built, as by date in the debtors court, Remarks. 1705. — Separate courts for debtors and felons; but the latter have no water. For this reason, and because their day-room is in the debtors court, both debtors and felons are commonly together in that court. Commodious apartments for maflrer's-side debtors: and a large free ward for the common-side. For felons there are two night-dungeons down n steps: that for men was a few years ago made more airy by an additional window: and it is, or should be, daily freshened by a hand-ventilator which is in the room over the chapel. The women's dungeon might also be freshened by the fame. The day-room

SHROPSHIRE

Oxford Circuit.

3*4

Shrewsbury.

for felons is small, 15I feet by 5]: men and women together.

bury county has now enclosed a court for the women; but a

CCaol.Y Separate day-room is also necessary to prevent the dreadful consequences of their being with the men. There should be water in this court; as also in that of the men-felons.

Here are three large lamps in the court supplied at the county's expense.

No infirmary: if the proposed improvements will be some protection against the gaol fever, which of late years has prevailed here more than once, they will not secure prisoners against the small pox and other diseases. When the apothecary finds that a sick prisoner should have better diet, he orders the gaoler to provide it, and signs his bill for the amount; which is readily allowed by the justices at quarter sessions.

Of the 24 felons in September 1776, 14 were convicts for transportation. The county allowed transports convicted at quarter sessions as much as those convicted at assize had from the king's allowance, viz. 2 a week. In 1779, there were several convicts, one of whom had been ordered to the Thames in the summer assize 1777.

Mr. Wood, who, before the appointing of a chaplain, read prayers three times a week, and had £$ a year, was employed in the same service, and received of the chaplains the same salary, till his death, which happened very lately. I believe the magistrates made the chaplain's salary £5 more, in favour of Mr. Wood.

The justices of this county, at the general quarter sessions nth Jan. 1774, were so considerate and humane, as to prohibit the demanding from prisoners at their entrance into this gaol, or into the county bridewell, any money for drink, by the name of garnish, or any other name: and to require that two or more fair copies of their said order should be hung up in the most public places of the gaol, for the inflection of debtors, as well as felons; that the unfortunate might not afterwards be imposed upon.

At my last v i fit, the act for preserving the health of prisoners; clauses against spirituous liquors; the prohibition of garnish; and a new table of fees; were all hung up, and very conspicuous.

Shrofishire.

J

3*5

Shropshire. A Table of the Rates and Fees to be taken by the Gaoler for the County of Salop, settled — by the Justices of the Peace for the said County — the 14th day of July 1778.

The Chamber Rent.

D.

To the gaoler for lodging and his furniture on the master's-side, each person having a bed to himself - week - 0

But if two lodge in the same bed on their own election, then each to pay per week - 016

To the gaoler for lodging of each person in the garrets on the gaoler's bed and furniture - per week -oxo

Hote. No person shall be moved out of a room where he is placed by the gaoler without his own consent, or the content of two justices of the peace for the said county, or neglect of paying chamber rent.

That no person pay any rent or money whatsoever for lodging on the common-side, unless he used the gaoler's bed and furniture, in which case be is to pay - per week - o x o

Fees for the Gaoler for Debtors.

To the gaoler for the commitment of each debtor - 0

To the gaoler for the discharge of each debtor - 0

To the gaoler for entering in his books every charge upon such debtor o For the copy of every sheriff's warrant (if demanded) - 0

But the debtors to have recourse to fee the book of commitment (if demanded) gratis.

To the gaoler for every debtor if detained upon two or more altions, fifteen shillings, including the five shillings upon commitment and no more - 0

For receiving and entering every declaration against debtors in custody o For every certificate in order for a supersedeas, or in order to fueouta rule of court - 0

Fees for the Gaoler for Felons * other Crimes.

To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner found guilty of felony

If at Assizes - 0

To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner found guilty of felony

If at Sessions - 0

To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner committed for a certain time, or fined and committed until paid, or bailed out of gaol, or superseded by a justice or justices of the peace - 0

But if continued in gaol three months or upwards - 0

For the copy of every commitment (if desired) - 0

For every certificate of commitment, in order to sue out a habeas corpus o

The

13 49

7 890 1 o % 6

5 © 3 © 1 o X o

15 o

X o*6

Shrewsbury County Gaol.

Oxford Circuit,

316

Shrewsbury County Gaol.

Bripi-

WELL.

SHROPSHIRE,

The following Articles to be allowed by the County.

S. D.

To the gaoler for the discharge of every person charged with felony, or other crime, or as an accessary thereto, againA whom no bill of indictment shall be found by the grand jury, or who on his or her trial shall be acquitted, or who shall be discharged by proclamation for want of prosecution - If at affixes - 0134

If at sessions - 090

Chat.B(ddxvynt W. T. Davenport, Wm, Justices,

August 13th 1778. Allowed and confirmed the above Table of Fees, by us

J. Skynnbr, G. Nares, Judges of Assize.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHREWSBURY.

Too small: only one day-room for men and women; but at my last visit, there was a new work-room. Two night-rooms above for women. In one of them I saw a poor young creature too ill to come down stairs; (he was languishing on the floor in a consumption. The night-room for men is a dungeon down ten steps. There is a small court with water. By means of a door from this into one of the gaol courts, these prisoners have a privilege (which few in bridewells enjoy) of attending public worship in the chapel on Sunday.

Keeper's salary, £50. Fees at discharge of a felon, 8r.; of one guilty of a misdemeanour, 6s. 8 of a vagrant, 3*. 6 Allowance, bread as felons in the gaol: and half a Civt. of coals weekly, from Michaelmas to the Lent assize. Little or no employment: keeper has half the profit.

The prohibition of garnish, as mentioned in the county gaol, is hung up in this bridewell.

1774, March 31, Prisoners 4. 1779, May 15, Prisoners 6.

1775, Nov. 27, — 5. --- Aug 24, — 8.

1776, Sep. 12, — 11.

Shrewsbury Town Gaol and Bridewell,

At the castle-gate. Sundry rooms over the gateway for men and women prisoners. Allowance to criminals, three-halfpence

a day.

Ottokb ClRcuif. HEREFORDSHIRE. jry

a day. Fees, debtors 5 r. 6 J.Criminals 3*. 6 No table. Gaoler* salary, £5,

1779, May 15, No Prisoners.

— Aug. 24, One Debtor.

Ludlow Town Gaol,

Called Gaolford's Tower, was an ancient prison, but was rebuilt 1764. For felons &c. two lower rooms vaulted, 14^ feet square, with chimneys. Two rooms above, morefpacious and airy, for debtors. No court: no water. A sergeant at mace keeper, each of the three in annual rotation.

1774, July I, Prisoners 0.

1779, May 16, — O. Deserter I.

--- July 27, — 2.

HEREFORDSHIRE. COUNTY GAOL at HEREFORD. GAOLER, Thomas Ireland,

Salary,

Fees,

none.

Debtors, ? r

: 14: 4.

Felons, 5 Transports, £5: 10: o each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a three-penny loaf each, every other day.

Gamiflij £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors, Felons&c. Debtors. Felons

Feb. 23, H* 29. 1776, Sep. 9, 8, 3-

Aug. 9, 11* 13. 1779, May 17, 19, 9*

Dec. 2, 4. Impressed Men 6.

flenr-

rvav.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Baylis; now Rev. Mr.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday? Friday, and faints days.

Salary, /40. Twenty of it is a legacy of William

Bridges, Esq. of Tiverton in this county. SURGEON, Mr. Williams Cam,

Salary, j£tJ.

3*8

HEREFORDSHIRE

Oxford Circuit

Hmitoib

CovHTY

Gaol.

Remarks.

HEREFORD.

APARTMENTS, and court for master's-ftde debtors, spacious: but no free ward. The men-felons night-ward, the Campy was too close, but is lately made airy and commodious: their court behind the gaol large. No infirmary: noftrawor bedding. The chapel was very damp, but it is now floored and dry. Glaufes against spirituous liquors, and act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up. Mr. Ireland, who has been there above forty years, said at one of my former visits, he never had a debtor who obtained the groats.

William Bridges, Esq. bequeathed 8 a year to poor prisoners: and on St. Thomas's day one shilling is given to each debtor, and six pence to each felon, by legacy of Sir Thomas White. No table of bequests. The table of fees not hung up.

TABLE OF FEES.

At the General Quarter Sessions — -held — at Hereford — in the first week after the Feast of St. Thomas the Martyr (to wit) the 14th of July in the 4th — -of — George 11 — 1730

Before John Stratford Esq. Edward Goodere Bart. Herbert Aubrey Richard Hopton Esqrs. &c. — pursuant to an Act for the Relief of Debtors &c. — It is ordered that the several — Sam* herein after mentioned and no more may be taken. —

(That is to say)

S. D.

For the entering of every action or process whereon a prisoner shall or may

be charged - oj6

To the turnkey or under keeper on each attion - 010

For entering of the discharge, and for the discharge of every prisoner - 0 6 S

To the turnkey on the discharge of every prisoner. - 0 1 0

For the receiving and entering every declaration delivered against the prisoners in custody - 0 1 0

To the turnkey upon every declaration - 0 0 6

For a certificate for want of a declaration In order to take out a writ of supersedeat - 0

For a copy of a warrant or commitment against each prisoner - o Every prisoner that lyes in the keeper's lodgings in the sheriff's ward in a single bed and sheets, by the week - 0

For two in a bed with sheets by the week - 0

Every prisoner that lyes in his own lodgings - c

For two persons or more in their own lodgings each -

7 Stratford Ed Goodere R Hopton H Thomas

Ro. Price J. Comyms

6

6

6

6

6

0

H jiubrey

Rogr. Hereford

J The King's Justices.

COUNTY

Oxford Circuit. HEREFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at HEREFORD,

On the castle-green, is quite out of repair. Indeed it is not only ruinous, but dangerous: a cross wall is parted a great way from the wall against which it abutted. In the day-room there was a large quantity of water from the roof. No fire-place: offensive sewers: no court: no water: no stated allowance: no employment. Keeper's salary,.He told me that a little before I came, a prisoner died after three weeks confinement. Six prisoners, whom I saw there at my first visit, complained of being almost famished. They were sent hither from the assize a few days before to hard labour (as the sentence usually runs) for six months. The justices had ordered the keeper to supply each of them daily with a two-penny loaf: but he had neglected them. They broke out soon after.

The above was the state of this prison in 177 At my last visit they were repairing it; for the cross wall had fallen in But the spot on which it is built is so confined, that it cannot be convenient. Only two rooms are designed for work and lodging, for both sexes j and as there is no court, the sewers must make these rooms very unhealthy. It might have been better, if the gentlemen had erected the bridewell in one of the two very spacious gardens joining to the county gaol, and occupied by the gaoler j then, if they had no chapel, the prisoners (as those in Shrewsbury bridewell) might have had the privilege of public worship in the county gaol.

1774, Aug. 9, Prisoners 6.

1775, Dec. 3, - 0.

1776, Sep. 9, — 1.

1779, May 17, The prisoners were in the county gaol.

Hereford City Gaol

Is one of the gates. The debtors rooms are commodious j and they have a little court. The lower room for felons too close. The gaol clean, but out of repair. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper a widow: salary none: fees, 6s. 8 d.no table.

1776, Sep. 9, Debtors 3. Felons 0.

1779, May 17, 4. - 0.

MONMOUTH-

3r9

Bridewell.

3io

MONMOUTHSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at MONMOUTH.

Monmouth.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

John Daverely afterwards James,now his Widow.

none. £20 a year to supply felons as below. Debtors,

Felons,

£6 each.

Beer.

}£*

IO.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, one-pennyworth of bread a day each. Garnish, £0: a: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec, Debtors. Feloai&c.

1774, Feb. 23, 10, 12. 1776, Sep. 5, 6, 9.

« — Aug. 10, 9* 16. 1779, June2» I2>

1775. Dec. 4» 5» 8.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr Powell.

Salary, jC10 10: o, lately augmented to: 12: 0.

Remarks. ONLY one court. The rooms for debtors small. Felons night-room at top of the house, 22 feet by 15, with only one window about 3 feet square. Besides the difficulty of going daily up and down in irons; when water is to be carried so high, and the staircase, like this, is narrow and inconvenient, a room is seldom clean and healthy. This cannot be so if it should be crowded. At my first visit in 1774* they had the gaol fever, of which J. Daverel and several of his prisoners, and some of their friends died. — No infirmary: there is room to build one at the bottom of the court. The brewhouse is very fit for a felons day-room; which is much wanted.

After the mortality mentioned above, all the prisoners were new-clothed by the duke of Beaufort.

At my visit in 1779, ten of the twelve felons were convicts, four of them at the summer assize in 1775. — Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

^ John

321

John Gabriel, a gardener near the town, used to fend each prisoner every quarter-day a fix-penny loaf: and at his decease he bequeathed the same donation. Prisoners do at present receive it; but there is no memorial of the legacy hung up.

A Table of Debtors Fees as settled and allowed by the several Justices of the Peace for the County of Monmouth whose Names are hereunto written the ioth August 1751: According to the - Direction of an Act of Parliament intituled

C S. D.

Imprimis for entering the action whereon each prisoner is first brought into castody either on process, capiat latitat execution or writ of ad capiendum - 0184

For entering and discharging every second and other action upon

capiat latitat or execution - 0134

For receiving and entering every declaration against prisoners in custody o For the certificate of the want of a declaration in order to sue out a writ of supersedeat - >068

For a copy of each warrant against each prisoner - 034

For receiving and entering every warrant against each defendant in custody o a 6 For the under keeper or turnkey upon each action and writ - o a 6

LODGINGS.

Every prisoner that lies in the keeper's lodgings in the ftieriffs ward pays

by the week - 0 a 6

Every prisoner that lies in the Ts ward in his own lodgings pays per week - 016

The Names of the Justices who signed and allowed the above Fees.

Thot. Morgan Cap el Hanbuty *. Tuder Morgan J. Lewis

Charles Van Junr. John Chambre E. Bradbury.

Examined and allowed by the

Honble Sir Thomas Dennison Knt.

AND THE

HonWe Mr. Baron Clive.

Y COUNTY

Monmouth County Gaol.

MONMOUTHSHIRE. Oxford Circuit

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at USK.

This prison was formerly a chapel. On the ground floor is a room for men, and another for women. There are two work-rooms at top of the house;but I (aw no prisoners there. The keeper's wife told me that many years ago the prison was crowded; and herself, her father, who was then keeper, and many others of the family, had the gaol fever: three of them, and several prisoners died of it. The danger of such a calamity for the future would be much lessened, if proper rooms were built in the keeper's large garden. — The rooms which were building in 1779 will be some small improvement of this prison. There is a court with a pump. The prisoners have some allowance. The spinning-wheels &c. are not provided by the county. The keeper has all the profit of the work. Salary, fees,.5 s.6 d.no table.

1774, Aug. 21, Prisoners 2.

1776, Sep. 6, — 3.

1779, June 8, — 7.

Monmouth Town Gaol.

A room on the first floor for debtors, and another over it for felons. No court: no water. Allowance to felons, two pence a day. Gaoler's salary, £4.

1779, June 2, No prisoners.

GLOUCESTER.

Jr

323

COUNTY GAOL, GLOUCESTER CASTLE.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

Wiliam Williams.

none.

Debtors, - £: 0: lb.

Felons at Assize - o: 17 8.

at Quarter Sessions 0: 13: 4. £6 each.

Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, each a fix-penny loaf in two days. Garnish, £0: 1: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec, Debtors. Felons&c.

1773, Nov. 24» *7- *776>SeP- 5» 8, 35.

^74, Aug. 8, 20, 48. Dec. 15, 10, 41.

1775, Dec. 5, 13, 24. 1779, June 1, 16, 24.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Evans.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, None; but on applying to a justice.

THE cattle is also one of the county bridewells: yet only one court for all prisoners; and one small day-room, 12 feet by 11, for men and women-felons. The free ward for debtors is 19 feet by 11, which having no window, part of the plaster-wall is broke down for light and air. The night-room (the Main) for men-felons, though up many stone steps, is close and dark; and the floor is so ruinous, that it cannot be washed. Adjoining to the Main, there are other night-rooms for fines &c. These have also their separate day-room. The whole prison is much out of repair. The upper rooms were the bridewell, but now they are not used. Many prisoners died here in 1773, and I generally saw some sick in this gaol;eight died about Christmas 1778 of the small pox. No infirmary. Neither clauses against spirituous liquors, nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are hung up.

GLOUCESTER.

Remarks.

GLOUCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

324

GLOUCESTER.

County Gaol.

There is no proper reparation of the women, or of the bridewell prisoners. The licentious intercourse of the sexes is shocking to decency and humanity. Five or fix children have lately been born in this gaol. There is a chapel, but all the endeavours of the chaplain to promote reformation among the prisoners must necessarily be defeated, by the inattention of the magistrates, and their neglect of framing and enforcing good regulations.

Of the felons &c. in September and December 1776, thirteen were transports: raoft of them convicted at Lent assize

1775. About twenty were fines; who, not having the county allowance, nor any employment, were in September very pitiable objects indeed;half naked, and almost famiftied. But in December their appearance was much altered. Mr. Raikes and other gentlemen took pity on them, and generously contributed toward the feeding and clothing the m. Eleven of the twenty-four in 1779, were fines without any employment or allowance. — Mr. Williams has 10 a year as bridewell keeper.

In this gaol were some prisoners, who had been arrested by exchequer writs; in which an officer is commanded u to bring “ the body before the barons of the exchequer — at Westminster <c — to answer our sovereign lord the king concerning divers (t trespasses, contempts, and offences &c.” The prisoners are called contempts. In different parts of the kingdom, there are many prisoners detained by such writs, which are indeed numerous.

A Table of Debtors Fees allowed by the — Justices — for the County of Gloucester at the Booth-hall 15 July 1729. Approved — by the Judge of Assize — 19th fame month according to — an Act entituled See,

To wit

D,

Imprimis, for entering the action whereon each prisoner is first brought into custody either on process, capias, latexecution or writ of excom

ad cap'ur.dum - o 18

For entering and discharging every second and other action-upon process,

capias, latitat or execution - 0134

For receiving and entering every declaration against prisoners in custody o a 0 For the certificate of the want of a declaration in order to sue out a writ

of supersedeas - 068

For

325

D.

For a copy of each warrant against each prisoner - ° 3 4

For receiving and entering every warrant against each defendant in custody o a 6 For the under keeper or turnkey upon each action or writ - o a 6

LODGINGS.

Every prisoner who lies in the keeper's lodgings in the sheriff's ward,

being the castlej pays by the week - 0*6

Every prisoner who lyes in the ftictiff's ward in his own lodgings pays

by the week - 016

The names of the Justices who signed and allowed the above Fees at the last Sessions

Willm.Hodget y Temple Ed Field J Stephens Tho Cooke

K Delabere C Hyatt Nat hi Lye Fr Willis

Tbt* Hayward RegWinniat Tho

The names of the Justices and Judge of Assize who allowed and confirmed the above Fees at the last Assize

Tho Cooke y Stephens Ed Field Tho Hayward.

I have reviewed and examined the above Table of Fees and do confirm the fame

Rob. Price.

OTHER

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Lawford's Gate, Bristol, built 1716, has four rooms, 18 feet by 16: in two of them are beds for those who pay. There is a small dark room in which felons flecp. Nochimneys. Court 22 feet by 18;with a pump. It is not secure j and prisoners are always confined in their rooms. It may be enlarged from the keeper's garden; and should be made secure, that prisoners may use it, and have access to the pump. The keeper readily agreed with me in that opinion. He is a sheriff's officer: salary, 10: fees, 6r. 8 no table. Straw, ten shillings a quarter: allowance, if a prisoner be very poor, 2d. z day: no employment. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.' By a register kept in the

GLOUCESTER.

County Gaol,

Bmn*.

W t L I. 5.

326

Bbidk-

WELLS.

GLOUCESTERSHIRE. Oxforp Circuit,

prison, it appears that in eight years and a half to September 1776, there were committed to it 572 prisoners.

1774, Aug. 23, Prisoners 2. *779* Feb. 8, Prisoners 4.

1775, Dec. 8, — 3. — - Sep. i, — 5.

1776, — 16, — 6.

Berkeley. Quite out of repair. Only one room for men and women, 18 feet by 15^: no chimney: court not securet no straw. The sensible old keeper lamented the bad effects of close confinement in idleness, upon the health of even young strong prisoners. Many such, he said, he had known quite incapable of working for some weeks after their discharge. He told me, that some years ago his prisoners used to grind malt for a penny a bushel; and the justices would not licence any victualler whose malt was not ground here: but that of late years they have done no work at all. No allowance. Keeper, Francis Norman: his salary, £20 but he pays out of it £6 to the poor of the parish for ground-rent: fees, 4*. 4 d.no table. He wrote me a list of his prisoners for - four years past; which I will transcribe.

Account of Prisoners in the Bridewell at Berkeley, Sent to the House of Commons.

In the year 1771, committed to labour and correction, Prisoners 21. Nothing expended,

Nothing earned.

1772, Ditto, - 20.

Nothing expended.

Nothing earned.

1773, Ditt0> 19.

Nothing expended.

Nothing earned.

1774, Ditto, - 15.

Nothing expended,

Nothing earned.

1775, Ditto to Midsummer sessions, 4.

Nothing expended.

Nothing earnedi

Francis Norman.

1774, Aug. 22, Prisoners 3, two men, one woman.

1775, Dec. 6, — 0.

1779, June 9, — 0.

GLOUCESTERSHIRE.

327

Cirencester. The ground floor is the keeper's Ihop for garden feeds; and his kitchen &c. On the first story is a room about 16 feet by 11 for men: one corner of it is parted off for a bed-room, called the Cuby 8 feet by 5. On the second story is a larger room for women. The whole out of repair j and the court not secure enough to let the prisoners have the use of it. Felons are occasionally allowed twopence a day; nothing to any others. No employment. Keeper's salary, £13: he pays rent, £12.

1776, Sep. 4, Prisoners 3.

1779, June 9, — 6.

Winchcomb. In this bridewell prisoners were formerly kept all together in the cellar. Now they are in the garrets: men in one, women in another; each about 14 feet square: roof and floors meet: 8 feet high to the ridge in the middle. A close-glazed window in each: no chimney. Prisoners always confined to their rooms: court not secure. The county have never expended any thing upon the house for many years; and the whole is quite out of repair. It was the freehold of the keeper, who was upwards of fourfeore: his salary per receipts £12: 10: o, in fad £12. Fees, 131. 4 d.notable. Licence for beer. Clauses against fpi-

rituous liquors not hung up. Allowance, if charged with felony, three-pennyworth of bread a day. No straw. The present keeper said, that “ he should be obliged to put irons on all the prisoners to secure them.'*

1776, Dec. 14, Prisoners, 1 Felon, and 2 Women spinning. 1779, May 19, No Prisoners.

IN THIS COUNTY It ALSO

St. Briavbll's Gaol, for Debtors.

The castle is the property of Lord Berkeley. It is in the ForestofDean. One room for men, greatly out of repair: no court: no water: no allowance: no firing. One of the two sickly objc&s I found there, told me he had been confined a twelvemonth, and never once out of the dismal and offensive room; the other almost as long. — A room above for women: none there. — Keeper no salary: fees, 2 6 no table.

1775, Dec. 4, Prisoners 2.

1779, June 2, — 0.

Y4 GLOUCESTER

Bridewells.

3*8

GLOUCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

GLOUCESTER,

Remarkc.

GLOUCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, William Jeynts,now his Widow.

Salary, none: she pays £414: O a year to the sheriffs.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 9: 8.

Felons, o: 12: 10.

Transports, £6 each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, three shillings a week. (See Remarks.)

Felons, three-pennyworth of bread a day each. Garnish, £0: 3: 4.

Number. Debtors. Felons tec. Debtors. Felons&c,

1773, Nov. 24, 3, 4. 1776, Dec. 15, 2, 6.

1775, Dec. 5, 7, 7. 1779, June I, 1, I.

1776, Sep. 6, 2, 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None j but on applying to the mayor.

THIS gaol, the North-gate, is too (mail. Debtors, felons, and petty offenders, who cannot pay for beds, all together in the Main j but women separated at night. No court j debtors have the privilege of walking upon the leads. The a£ for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

The city pays debtors in common, three shillings a week: they have not received, for nineteen years past, the sixteen shillings formerly paid by the corporation. On the 13th of December, prisoners have ten shillings worth of bread from an estate in Hemfted near this city. It is sent in twopenny loaves. No memorial of it in the gaol. There are some rules, dated 1694, in which the sums for garnish are specifkd; but as they are not signed, I did not copy them. The gapler also kept the city bridewell at the East-gate: but that being taken down, offenders are committed to this gaol.

Gloucester

Oxford Circuit. GLOUCESTERSHIRE.

329

Gloucester City.

A Table of Chamber Rent and Fees belonging to the North-gate Gaol &c.

C LOW-CUTES.

CHAMBER RENTS.

The bed room for each man three shillings week.

The three bed-rooms far each man two shillings and four pence week. The chamber called Daw't~nest three shillings per week.

The little chamber called Catt-bolt two shillings and four pence per week. The little room on the first floor two shillings and four pence per week.

FEES.

Sheriff's warrants of writs out of King's Bench and Common Pleas,

gaoler 8j. 4<f. turnkey it. 4<f. - 098

All execution-warrants the same - 098

City double action - 084

City single action - 048

Executions out ofcourt of confluence - o s 6

Mittimus'i - o 12 10

Civet Clone ft Ad Generaltm Quarti Sessionm lAc. 5 \to Georgii // — 1730

Whereas by an Act made in the second year of the reign of his present Majesty — for the relief See. — no Fees — or Chamber rent to be taken — till settled by three or more Justices — at the Quarter Sessions — and — signed by the Judge of Assize with three or more justices — And whereas upon the examination of the gaoler of the prison of the North-gate of this City — it appearing to us that the above — are the ancient and accustomed Fees — we having reviewed and moderated the said Table of Fees in some articles do hereby allow and confirm the same as they are now settled.

Signed by ns

John Small, Mayor Payne Tho Carill.

HAMPSHIRE,

HAMPSHIRE. Western Circuit.

HAMPSHIRE, or the county of SOUTHAMPTON. COUNTY GAOL at WINCHESTER.

w*»- GAOLER, MMTU, Salary, John White. none.

Fees, Debtors, £1: 0: 0. Felons, 1: 7: 4.

Transports, £5: $: 0 each, and hire of waggon or other carriage.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none; but on applying to the

justices. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a three-penny loaf each, every other day (weight in Sep. 1774, 1 lb. 15 oz.)and the college allowance, ( See Remarks.)

Garnifti, £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons ic.

1773, Dec. 16, 21, 18. 1776, Feb. 27, 15, 23*

1774, Sep. 24, 13, 21. 1779, Mar. 1, ia, 1775, Dec. 28, 15, 29. 26.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Westcomb.

Duty, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday.

Salary, lately augmented from £30 to 50.

SURGEON, Mr. Lipscomb.

Salary, lately augmented from £30 to 50 for felons,

common-side debtors, and bridewell prisoners.

Remarks. THIS gaol is kept very clean; and the alterations in it are improvements. The present dungeon, 48 feet by 23, is down but 5 steps: it is boarded, and has 3 large windows. The former dc-stru&ive dungeon was darker, and down 11 steps: Mr. Lipscomb informed me that more than 20 prisoners had died in it of the gaol fever in one year; and that his predecessor died of the same distemper. The felons day-room is commodiously enlarged.

Their

33i

Western Circuit. HAMPSHIRE.

Their straw mattresses and coverlets are brought out and aired when the weather is fine. The beds are all on crib bedsteads. They had every day a clean towel hung oh a roller: the prisoner who took care of it and delivered it next day was paid a penny. If a little court, which is now shut up frdm the gaol, and totally useless, were cleared, and opened towards the prison, it would be very conducive to health and convenience. The chapel is very low and inconvenient.

St. Cross's hospital bread (the dole) is about a penny loaf given to each of the prisoners fix times a year; viz. on the eve of the following days, ioth August, 31st October, Christmas, Easter, 3d of May, and Whitsunday,

The college allowance to felons is, once a week, an ox's head, four sheep's heads and henges, about seventeen pints of oatmeal, three pints of salt, twelve loaves the size of two-penny ones, about twenty gallons of table beer, and generally three times a week the broken victuals. In Lent they have not thp ox head, nor the other meat.

The gaoler has two guineas a year for keeping a bread account, to check the baker. The justices also take care of this matter^ and, in consequence, the quarterly bills, now the prisoners have three halfpence a day, amount to no more than they did in the last gaoler's and baker's time, when the allowance was but a penny a day, and there was about the same number of prisoners.

At my visit in 1779, the act for preserving the health of prisoners was painted on a board, and hung in the court, by order of the justices.

Southton. fs Ad Generalem Quarterialem — apud Winston —

H mo. Jan 5* Georgii 731 coram &c.

A Table of Fees — settled — pursuant to an Act — the second year of his present Majesty — entitled an Act for the Relief of Debtors &c.

At the entrance of every felon for cleansing the gaol and finding candles and all other common necessaries

At the discharge of every felon to the gaoler -To him for the second and every other indictment At the discharge of every felon to the turnkey - For the second and every other indiQment to him

£. S. D.

0 2 0 I 5 4

O 12 S O 2 O 0 1O

To

Winchester

COUNTY

Gaol.

L le

33*

WlK-

CHKSTKft

COONTT

Gaol.

HAMPSHIRE. Western Circuit.

£ 03O a o

To the gaoler for every felon for his bed on the mailer's side weekly If two lye in the same bed he may take of each for lodging in such bed o At the entrance of every debtor for deanfing the gaol and finding candle and other necessaries - 0

Of every debtor for each week's lodging in the gaoler's bed on the mailer's side - 0

For each debtor discharged to the gaoler - I

Of him for the second and every other action - 0

To the turnkey at the discharge of every debtor - 0

To him of such debtor for die second and every other action - o At the discharge of every person committed for felony and whose bills shall be brought in ignoramus and at the discharge of every person committed for not finding bail or for other misdemeanors under the degree of felony no more than - 0134

For copy of every warrant for a debtor - 010

For the copy of every commitment of a felon - 010

And it is ordered — that the gaoler — shall not — receive dircdUy orindiredUy — any other or greater fees &c. — And for the better information of prisoners — that the underwritten clause in the said Act of Parliament be subscribed at the bottom of the Table of Fees to be hung up — in each and every room.

<c And be it further enacted — that every sheriff, under sheriff, gaoler &c. — shall permit — him or her — arrested to fend for — any beer ale and victuals or other “ necessary food from what place they please and also to have — such bedding “ linnen &c. — as he ihe or they shall think fit .”

a 6

0 o 10 o*o

1 o

Copy

EJ StarvellJohn Foyle Ed Hooker Rob Pyke

foot- Tho* Bates R. C. Chalo Cobb

Benj IVc Ric Ntm John Alnw

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

watts” Winchester. The three rooms are too close, and the court too finall for the prisoners, who are commonly numerous; especially at quarter sessions, when they are brought hither from the other bridewells. There is only day-room for men and women. At my visit in 1779, there were four y^z/ng women among the prisoners. This prison has been fatal to vast numbers. The misery of the prisoners excited the conipalhon of the duke of Chandos;who for some years prt ft has font them every week about thirty pounds of beef a/3 cl two gallon loaves. A pump lately funk: no straw.

---

Western Circuit; HAMPSHIRE. 333

[Bridewells.]

Clauses of act against spirituous liquors hung up. Keeper's salary, £40: fees^ 7s. 8d. no table. Licence for beer and wine. Allowance, a three-penny loaf in two days: no employment.

1774, Sep. 24, Prisoners 13.

1775, Dec. 28, — 21.

1779, Mar. 1, — 11.

Gosport. Apartments convenient, but not kept clean. The court airy. An oven to purify the clothes, but no fuel allowed by the county. No straw. Keeper a sheriff's officer: salary, £40: fees, 6s. 8d. no table. Licence for beer and wine. Allowance, two-pennyworth of bread a day: no employment. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors hung up.

1774, Sep. 27, Prisoners 2.

1776, Feb. 26, — 5.

1779, Mar. 6, — 9.

Odiam. Three rooms. The middle one, which is far the largest, the keeper uses for a brew-house, dairy &c.; the other two are 12 feet by 11 each. Keeper a sheriff's officer: salary, £15: fees, 6s. 8d no table. No licence. Allowance about a pound of bread a day: no straw: no employment. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Feb. 28, Prisoners 8.

1779, Mar. 10, — 5.

Newport in the Isle of Wight Bridewell, and Newport Gaol.

The bridewell for twenty-eight parishes, and the town gaol, are now both in the old work-house; four rooms being appropriated to that purpose. There are two keepers;one for the county bridewell, whose salary is £19: 5: 0; the other for the gaol, whose salary is £3.

1774, Sep. 27, No Prisoners.

1779, Mar. 5, No Prisoners.

---

334 HAMPSHIRE. Western Circuit.

[Newport.]

The poor are removed to an house of industry (which I visited); it was lately erected for the twenty-nine parishes, or whole island.

At Winchester is

A Prison for debtors, the Cheyney Court in and for the liberty of the Soke: the property of the bishop. Out of repair. There is a garden into which some prisoners are admitted. The bounty of the duke of Chandos supplies this prison every week (when there are prisoners) with one gallon loaf, and about twenty pounds of beef. Fees, 16s. 8d. no table.

1775, Dec. 28, Prisoners 6.

1779, Mar. 1, — 0.

In this County are also at Southampton,

The Bar Gate. Sheriff's ward for debtors. Two rooms: in that for women, no chimney. In 1779, there were some alterations in these rooms, but the sewer was offensive. There is no court: no water. Keeper, the oldest sergeant at mace: salary, £5: fees, 13s. 4d. no table. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up.

1774, Sep. 24, Debtors 2.

1776, Feb. 26, — 2.

1779, Mar. 3, — 3.

Gaol for felons, lower end of the town. Two close rooms. A court: no water. Gaoler's salary, £5. Prisoners allowance, three-pennyworth of bread a day.

1774, Sep. 24, Felons 0.

1776, Feb. 26, — 0.

1779, Mar. 3, — 1.

Bridewell, joins to the gaol. Three airy rooms up stairs: no court: no water: no employment. Keeper, a junior sergeant at mace: salary, £2; fees, 3s. 4d. no table. Prisoners allowance,

Western Circuit. HAMPSHIRE. 33S

[Southampton.]

three-pennyworth of bread a day: ten shillings a year for bedding.

---

1774, Sep. 24, Prisoners 0. 1776, Feb. 26, — 2.

1779, Mar. 3, — 1.

Portsmouth Town Gaol.

In one of the rooms, which is large, debtors and felons formerly lodged together; but in 1779, I found that they were separated. The upper rooms are for women: none in them. Gaoler is sergeant at mace: no salary: licence for beer and wine. Prisoners allowance, debtors none; felons four pence a day. No bedding nor straw.

A table of fees is hung up in this gaol: it is signed by the town-clerk George Huilh 30th June 1738. He writes at the title, “Fees due to the sergeants at mace of the said borough, which I have known to be paid from the year 1693 and have been informed were antiently paid.”

For every commitment 151. 10 d.out of which the town-clerk hath 31. 6J, itc. ice. ice.

1774, Sep. 24, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 4.

1776, Feb. 26, — 2. — 1.

1779, Mar. 6, — 6. — 1.

Basingstoke Prison, for Debtors,

Is one room in the keeper's public-house. He has no salary. 1776, Feb. 28, No prisoners.

WILTSHIRE.

WILTSHIRE. Western Circuit.

SALISBURY,

Remarks,

COUNTY GAOL at SALISBURY.

GAOLER, Thomas Biggs.

Salary, none. But £80 a year (lately raised from £50)

to supply felons as below. (See Remarks.) Fees, Debtors, £1: 1: 0.

Felons, 1: 6: 4.

Transports, *£4: 4: 0 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a penny loaf a day each (weight in Sep. 1774, 8 oz.): now a day;

i. e. 1 bread, \d. a quart small beer. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors Master's-side, £0: 8: 8.

Felons and Common-side Debtors, 0: 4: 4.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1773, Dec. 13, 14, 8. 1776, Sep. 3, 7, 12.

1774, Sep. 23, 12, 9. 1779, Mar. 1, 17, 15,

1775, Dec. 27, 21, 15.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Vanderplank.

Duty, Friday only.

Salary, £40 j of which £20 is a legacy. (See Remarks.)

SURGEON, Mr. Crompton, now Mr. Curtoys.

Salary, £10: 10: 0 for felons and common-side debtors, now £21.

THE. prison in this city called Gaol (from the name of the parish in which it stands) near a fine stream, is also one of the county bridewells. Only one court. No day-room for common-side debtors, nor felons: each fort have their fire on a brick hearth raised in the middle of their respective lodging-rooms, without a chimney. The debtors '-oom over the felons. Women-felons have a separate room, commodious.

Western Circuit. WILTSHIRE.

337

Mr. Biggs has ^6 113: 4 salary for the bridewell; and £10 a year for fees of prisoners acquitted at quarter sessions. He pays window-tax, £3: 15: o.

In 1776, there was a new building in the court; a stable, cart-house, and brew-house; with an infirmary over them; one room for men, another for women. I could not help wishing that the lower part instead of stable &c. had been two day-rooms with fire-places, one for common-side debtors, another for felons.

That part of the prison which was the bridewell is not secure; and petty offenders are confined in the gaol.

Just without the prison-gate is a round staple fixed in the wall: through it is put a chain, at each end of which a common-side debtor padlocked by the leg, stands offering to those who pass by, nets, laces, purses &c. made in the prison. The two whom I saw there last were crown debtors not cleared by the insolvent aft.

At Christmas, felons chained together are permitted to go about; one of them carrying a sack or basket for food; another, a box for money.

Twenty pounds a year of the chaplain's salary is paid by Lord Weymouth by a bequest of Thomas Thynrle, Esq. who bound for payment the manors of Wcobly and Ross in the county of Hereford. The bequest was recognized by Lord Weymouth in a deed of settlement dated 2d November 1709.

Lord Pembroke pays a legacy of a year; part to the chaplain himself, viz. a guinea for a hat; the remainder to be by him distributed among the prisoners. Mr. Smith of Salisbury left the interest of ^50 to be divided among them. No memorial of any legacy hung up in the gaol. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.*

When his Majesty parted through this city in 1778, he was pleased to leave £soo for the discharge of debtors confined for foms left than £50 j by which benefaction eleven prisoners were set at liberty,

Salisbury County Gaol.

33*

Salisbury County Gaol.

Bridewells.

WILTSHIRE. Western Circuit.

— Die Julii, 39. Georgii Anno Dam 1729

A Table of Fees now and heretofore usually demanded — and also for Chamber-rent &c. — according to an Act — intituled an Act for the Relief &c.

For entering and discharging every aBion or capiat or latitat - 100

Entering and discharging of every second action - 0 10 o

Entering and discharging every capiat utlegat - 0 10 o

For the under keeper or turnkey each action and writ - 010

FELONS.

For every commitment and discharge by a justice of peace or in court 154 For every commitment for not finding bail for good behaviour - o 13 4

For every commitment and discharge of bastardy - 0 13 4

For every igneramutupon felony - o 13 4

For every commitment and discharge on the statute of 154

To the under keeper on each of the causes - 010

LODGINGS.

Every prisoner that lyes in the keeper's lodging in the prize or sheriffTs ward pays by the week - 0 6

We whose names are here under written — at the General Quarter Sessions — held — at Warminster — do hereby — allow the fame

H Coker J Montagua Jno. Cooper In° Ejles

That. Phipps Edix4 Ashe Ed'uA

EC > O E R

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Devizes. This is also the town gaol. It has two night-rooms for men, and two for women: but the day-room and court-yard, common. A small work-lhop j I saw no body in it. An infirmary of two rooms. Four rooms for master's-side debtors. Clean and white-washed at my latevifits.

Allowance to offenders, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day (weight hi Sep. 1776, 18 ounces), and a pint of small 1 or. Straw, a guinea a year. — In 1779, the bread allowance nc pound and a half. A window is made in the

keeper's

Western Circuit.' WILTSHIRE. 33$

keeper's kitchenwhich overlooks the court. The prisoners Bmne-

are without employment: the shutters of the work-room

nailed up. No fees are demanded of the prisoners: the county pays the gaoler j s. Sd.for each.

There was a debtor in 1776 from the court of requests; he had a wife and four, small children. Twelve weeks confinement clears such debtors.

A few years ago the gaol fever carried off many: but as the infirmary and some of the other rooms mentioned above have been built fuice that time,; there i$ i\o\y little danger of that distemper; provided care be taken to separate prisoners in the apartments built for that purpose. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

The gaoler has a salary of £10, and keeps a public house.

Debtors. Petty Offenders.

1774. Aug. 4, 3, 17.

1776, Sep. 4, 1, 13.

1779, Feb. 27, I, 14*

lunatics 3, j Man and 2 Women

Marlborough. A common work-room 14 feet by- 12: a sizeable lodging-room for women: another for; men i. this is 13^ feet by9feet 8 inches; window 18 inches by 15, not. to the open air, but to the work-room, which has but one window. All these rooms are on the ground floor; and by a fewer within doors, they are made very offensive, especially the menV night-rooqv} in which, when I. was there first, I saw one dying on the floor of the gaol fever. The keeper told me that just before one had died there, and another soon after his discharge. Up stairs are three rooms for those who pay. No court: no water accessible to prisoners: no straw.. Allowance to petty offenders, none; felons, two-pennyworth of bread a day. Keeper's salary lately raised from £20 to 50, to supply the prisoners with bread. The county pays the fees, 7 8 at the discharge of every prisoner. The fees were formerly (as in a table dated 1671) felons, £1: 6: 4 j petty offenders, 14*. 4

340

Marlborough

Brip*-

WtLLa

WILTSHIRE. Western Circuit.

Licence for beer. A surgeon; his salary £10: io. At my visits in 1775 and 1776, some prisoners were at work; but none in 1779. One of them said, with evident concern, “he had been there thirty weeks and had not earned one halfpenny.”

I heard the justices had viewed the outside of this prison.

1774, Aug. 5, Prisoners 6.

1775, Dec. 30, — 8.

1776, Dec. 17, — 17.

1779, Feb. 27, — 4.

There is also at Salisbury the

City Gaol: the property of the bishop: out of repair. Two rooms for felons, and three above them for debtors. No court: no water: no straw. The late gaoler paid [fi a year to a domestic of the bishop. His lordship fends to the prisoners at Christmas thirty shillings worth of meat, and ten shillings worth of bread. Licence for beer: fees, 14 8 no table.

Allowance, debtors, none: felons, two pence a day.

Debtors. Felons.

177S> Dec. 27, 3* 2.

1776, Sep- 3» 2f 0. 2 Deserters

1779. Feb. 28, h 1.

DORSET-

Western Circuit. DORSETSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at DORCHESTER.

GAOLER, James Chaffey.

Salary,.none.

Fees, Debtors, - £1: 3: 9.

Felons at Assize,.- i: 3: 8.

Quarter Sessions, o: 17: 4. Transports, £2: 12: 6 each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none;but on applying to justices.

Felons, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day (weight in S 1774, 12* Garnish, Debtors, £o: 2.: 7. ? (S, Rrmarh.)

Felons, 0: 1: 30

Number, Debtors. Felons 8cc.Debtors. Felons

1773, Dec. 14, 21, 9. 1775, Dec. 26, 14, 7.

1774, Sep. 21, 19, 9. 1779, Feb. 6, 14, 6.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Dobney.

Duty, Friday; altered lately toSunday and Wednesday.

Salary, lately raised from £30 to 50.

SURGEON, Mr. Kenn.

Salary, £30 for debtors and felons.

THIS gaol was out of repair, and dirty at my first visits, Re but is now cleaner. Only one court. In September 1774, two debtors told me they had lived five or six weeks on nothing but the county bread, and water. In December 1775, the small pox in the gaol: no infirmary. A garden and a fine stream at the back of the gaol. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are not hung up.

Mr. John Derby left' twenty shillings a year for bread to be distributed among the prisoners on the four quarter-days: no memorial of this hung up.

34*

Dorchester County Gaol.

DORSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

Mr. Chaffey has been gaoler from the year 1728. I copied a paper of rules and orders signed by him: the lall article requires garnish of a new-comer. 1 ‘ 1

The following table in the gaol is hardly legible.

Dorset. A Table of Fees to be taken by — the Gaoler or Keeper of the Sheriff's Ward at Dorchester — settled — at Shafton — j'jfh July — 34th of George II. — 1760 pursuant tovan Act — intituled an Act for Relief of Debtors &c.

' S.D.

Inprimis for the commitment fee of every prisoner for debt damage contempt or otherwise in civil suits though it be on several actions 013 4

For the chamber rent of every prisoner so committed who- shall have a bed to himself and although tlicre are more beds in the same room and who'finds himself bed bedding and sheets weekly and every week o*o if there be two prisoners and no more in pne bed finding their own bed bedding and sheets then each of them to pay weekly and every week for chamber rent - »- . - 010

Every prisoner who at his own desire has a bed to himself land although there are more beds than one in each room and the keeper judge - bedding and sheeting shall pay for such chamber

rent and for the use of each bed and bedding weekly and every week 0*0 Prisoners in one bed and no more in one bed and the keeper finding bed bedding and sheets then every of them to pay weekly and every week for the use of such bed bedding and chamber rent ' - 0x6

For the use of the common room the prisoner finding his bed and bedding - oooo

But if the keeper finds bedding then - 006

For the liberate and discharge of every prisoner -out of the said prison for

debt or otherwise in civil fuics or actions - 0x0

For the turnkey fees of every prisoner discharged - oxo

Ric Brzdrepp R Riggs J

Jno Jennings E Qkedets . ' John Frtke.

The above written Fees have been perused by Us his Majesty's Justices of Assize for the Wellern Circuit at the Assizes held at Dorchester in and for the said County of Dorset the 24th day of July 176° and we do approve the fame

E Wilmot W Noel.

Examined with the Original by John IVallis Clerk of the Peace of the County of Dorset.

343

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHERBORN.

Four rooms, two for each sex. Keeper's salary, £40: fees, 13s. 4d. no table. Allowance, a three-penny loaf in two days, weight in Sep. 1774, lib. l$oz. No employment. No straw.

The keeper told me he had spoken in behalf of his sick prisoners to the clerk of the peace, who said “ he thought the late act did not extend to bridewells.”

The justices have very judiciously provided for the relief of prisoners going to different quarter sessions. Their order, dated J2th April 1774, is as follows.

Sherborn, Dorset. The great inhumanity that frequently happens unto the several prisoners — conveyed to the different quarter sessions to be tryed — by the walking loaded with heavy irons — being taken into confederation — it is the resolution and order of this court that for the future the gaol-keeper and bridewell-keeper shall provide for one prisoner only a horse, for two or more a convenient cart or carriage for the conveying the m: and to be allowed the sum of three pence per. mile for one person j for two or more the sum of six pence a mile &c.

1774, Sep. 22, Prisoners 9.

1779, Feb. 6, — 2.

Pool Town Gaol.

Two rooms, down three steps. No water. Keeper, no felary: fees, 13J. 4 d.no table. Allowance to debtors and felons, 2 s. $d. a week each.

1776, Feb. 26, Debtor 1. Felons 0.

Bridewell, in the work-house yard. Three small dirty rooms. Keeper is the master of the work-house, which he farms.

1776, Feb. 26, Prisoners none but a lunatic.

Z4 DEVON-

Brii>e

WELL

DEVONSHIRE. W«tern Culcdit.

Exetib.

Remarks.

HIGH GAOL AT EXETER,

FOR FELONS.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports, Licence,

Benjamin Sherry.

none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, £o: 14: 4.

£1: 1: 0 each. (See Remarks.) He fells beer.*

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Felons, twenty-two ounces of bread aday each.

Garnish, lately abolished.

Number. Felons tec. Fdons.

1774, Feb. 18, 20. 1775, Dec. 16, 25.

--- Sep. 12, 14. 1779, Jan. 31, 33.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Stabback.

Duty, Sunday a sermon, and twice a week prayers.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Rule. (since de

Salary, £42 for gaol and bridewell. (See Remarks.)

THIS gaol is the property of John Rolle Walter, Esq. whose family had a grant of it from the duchy of Cornwall: the gaoler pays him rent £22 per annum. The house and court too small: no sewer. The three night-dungeons down three Heps are close and unhealthy: the windows too small. An infirmary, commodious enough, is lately built; but the Hairs that lead up to it are intolerably bad. The prisoners formerly made cabbage-nets for two pence a dozen $ and purses of different forts from four pence to seven pence a dozen: the turnkey found the twine and thread. Two sailors fined a shilling each had £1: 1: 4 each to Pay clerk of the peace, besides the gaoler's fees. Mr. Rule the surgeon told me that he was by contract excused from attending in the dungeons any prisoners that should have the gaol-fever.

See page 170. I might there have added, that in Come places, as at Woncester tec. the justices restrict the sale of beer to the prisoners only j — yet, till a salary is <,xt in lieu of the tap, nothing effectual will be done.

It

It was commendable and exemplary in the justices of this county to fix the felons allowance by a certain weight of good bread, not variable with the price.

There is no table of fees. But by the close of the preamble at the Sheriff's Ward, the table there Teems to have included originally the fees of this gaol also. The gaoler had for each transport two guineas from the merchant, to whom the county paid per contract £$.

About Christmas, the gaoler permits his prisoners to solicit charity in the city. When I was there in December 1775, the box was broke open, as was supposed, by the person who conduced them, as he absconded. If any gentleman would undertake the disposal of the contributions, this would not only prevent such a fraud, but the money laid out for meat, firing &c. would be far more beneficial than their spending most of it in liquor.

At my visit in 1779, I found the men together encouraging and confirming one another in wickedness, and the women are obliged to associate with them in the day-time.

No alterations: yet as an elegant shire-hall is now finished, may it not be hoped that the gentlemen will turn their thoughts to this crowded and offensive gaol ? The act for preserving the health of prisoners is not hung up.

SHERIFF'S WARD, EXETER5 the COUNTY PRISON for debtors.

KEEPER, John

Salary, none.

Fees,; 14: 4.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, ,£0: 1: 4.

Number, Debtors. Debtors.

1774, Feb. 20, 43. 1775, Dec. 15, 34.

--- Sep. 12, 24. 1779, Jan. 31, 36.

CHAPLAIN, None. On Sunday a prisoner reads prayers and dines with the keeper.

SURGEON, None.

THE

345

Exeter.

1 by

DEVONSHIRE. Western Cisco it.

346

Exits*

Sheriff's

Ward.

Remarks.

THE Sheriff's ward or prison is in the partfh of St. Thomas the apostle, in the county of Devon. The rooms are large and convenient, but out of repair. Court spacious. Good rules of economy. A humane keeper. He has a good fire for common-side debtors — he said he would gladly relinquish his fees for salary of £100 — and told me that during his time, about twelve years, no more than four or five debtors had obtained their aliment, the groats. One debtor, on attachment from the court of chancery, has continued here from May 17 58, who would not take the benefit of the insolvent acts.

1760 Sheriff's Ward.

Devon, tv wit. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held at the Castle of Exon the 15th Jan. 1760 before Richard BeavisEfqr. George Tanner, William Clifford Martin, William Kittson, Esq«. and others &c« The Court having considered the report of Sir Richard Warwick Bamfylde Bart. Sir George Yonnge Bart. Henry Crewes Esqr< and John Snow^ Clerk* Justices of &c. — appointed to enquire into Fees taken by the present Keeper and Gaoler of this County, and having considered the Table of Fees heretofore taken by the Keeper of the Sheriff's Ward, and the Fees taken by the Keeper of th& High Gaol and Keeper of the Bridewell of this County doth in pursuance of an Act — entitled &c. — settle and establish the following Table of Rates and Fees of the Keepers of the said several Prisons &c.

A Table -of the Rates and FiEES allowed to be taken by the Keeper of the Sheriff's Ward for the County of Devon.

£ 5. D.

For the commitment fee of every prisoner for debt, damages, and contempts though it be on several actions or processes only - 0134

To die turnkey - 010

For every liberate - 020

For the use of a bed in a single room for one person by the week - o $ o The use of a room where there are two or more beds and two lodge in a bed each person by the week - 013

The use of the common room if the keeper finds bedding each person by the week - oxo

If the prisoner finds bedding - nothing

We do hereby approve and ratify the Table of Fees above written pursuant to the said Statute

E WILMOT

Rd Warwick Bamfylde W«. Noel.

Nich* Nutcombe Bluett Henry Crewes, Rules

J

WestirV Circuit. DEVONSHIRE.

Rules and Orders to be observed in the Sheriff's Ward or Prisoa for the -County of Devon. Cha* Hayne Sheriff.

No prisoner to abuse the turnkeys — if they do — to be confined.

If turnkeys use them ill — to complain to under-sheriff or keeper. Doors of lodging-rooms — to be unlocked — in winter — at sun-rising — in furamer at fix.

Prisoners to be called over within the fore-door — at candle-lighting — and locked up in their several rooms at nine at night.

Fore-gate to be locked at nine at night in summer, at eight in winter. No prisoder — to go outside of the rails towards the fore-gate.

No comber or weaver to work in lodging-rooms.

No prisoner's family, or wife, to lodge in the prffon without con fen t of the keeper.

No prisoner to be without the fore-door of the prison-house on Sundays in time of divine service.

No person to bring any spirituous liquors into the prisoa.

After the door is shut at night no large jugs of beer to be brought, but pints or quarts may be put in at the window.

No prisoner to throw any rubbish in the pump-yard.

No prisoner to keep any dog. '

No wood to be cut or cleaved in the chambers — it spoils the plastering. Keeper to place any prisoner where he thinks proper for safety.

No prisoner to remove his bed without keeper's consent.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at EXETER, in st. Thomas's.

Spacious, but out of repair: the windows small and glazed;yet no casements. An infirmary. — Keeper's salary, £60: no fees. He is a woollen manufacturer, and at my first visits did employ some of his prisoners. Others of them might work in the large garden and court at rope making, packthread spinning &c. His number of prisoners for three years was in 1772, 92; in 1773, i63* in x774> *44* When I was there in 1775, eight or ten of the prisoners were women; and yet the house was dirty. Allowance, two-pennyworth of bread a day (weight in Sep. 1774, 19! ounces). The county have appointed a chaplain, with a salary of /30, and a house joining to the prison which he lets for £6a year.

In

347

EXETER

Sheriff'*

'Ward.

BRIDEWELL.

34*

Exeter

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

Remarks.

DEVONSHIRE. Western Circuit.

In 1779 I found some improvements for the reparation of and women: but all were unemployed, and their countenances discovered misery and neglect. The surgeon and two or three prisoners have died of the gaol fever since my visit in 1775*

1774, Sep. 12, Prisoners 22.

1775, Dec. 24, — 34-

1779, Feb. 5, — 27.

EXETER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Sarah Strong.

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors,: 16: 4.

Felons, o: 14: 4.

Transports, the expense.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day each.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 3: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec.Debtors. Feloos&c.

1774, Feb.. 20, II, 1. 1779, Jan. 31, 2, 2.

1775, Dec. 15, 7, 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None. But ordered for felons by the chamber

upon occasion.

THIS gaol, called the South-gate , has in the keeper's

house convenient apartments for debtors. The three wards on the other side of the gateway, for felons, are very close and offensive: no chimney: no court: no water: no sewer. In 1779, I found a woman sick, who had “been confined three years on the felons side. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

Here are sent 51 penny l9ave$ every week to the debtors;if only one, he has the whole j if more, they are equally divided

amongst

349

Western Circuit. DEVONSHIRE.

amongst them: from what legacies they come is not known in the gaol, as no other account is hung up than two painted boards, which contain memorials of sundry bequests. They are not dated; one of them seems ancient. I will transcribe the legacies from these after the3 table of fees.

City and County of the City of Exon (to nvitj Fees of the Gaoler or Keeper — of the Gaol — called the Compter — at the South-Gate — settled — at the General Quarter Sessions — held at the Guild-Hall — 10th April — nth George II. — 1738 — in pursuance of an Act for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors &c.

S. D.

For the commitment fee of every prisoner for debt, damages, contempt or otherwise though it be on several actions or processes - 0134

To the turnkey . - . - 010

For every liberate - oao

For the use of a bed in a single room for one person per week - 030

For the use of a room wherein are two or more beds, and two lodge in each bed, then for each bed - 0*6

For the use of the common room the prisoner finding the bed - 006

But the keeper finding the bed then per week - 010

Arthur Culmt Mayor Nat hi Tho* Coppltfton.

The above Table of Fees hath been reviewed and confirmed by us his Majesty's Justices of Assize for the Western Summer Circuit held in and for the City of Exon and County of the same City. 24th July 1738.

J Fortescue W>* Thompson.

LEGACIES.

A MEMORIALL of certayne Guyftes to the yeerlie value of Twenty Poundes geeven by Laurence Seldon, and Elizabeth, his Wife, to be distributed by the Maior and Bayliffes of the Cittie of Exon for ever as followith:

d

In bread weeklie to the poore

Prisoners in the kingcs gaole 1 near the castell of Exon J

Prisoners in the flierives warde gaole, and counter of the cittie of Exon

6

S

2.6

Shills

yeerly

*6

6.10.O

The

Exits*

City.

350

Exeter

ClTV.

DEVONSHIRE. Westirj* Circuit.

The other articles in this 'piece of antiquity, such as 2 s. 6 d.a year to the mayor of the city &c. I must omit as foreign to my purpose.

The memorial on the other board is as follows:

Exon

Southgate. Mrs. Hefter Reed gave sixpence a week for ever, to this prison to be paid out of a tenement called Ven in the parish of Culemton, and laid out la middling wheat bread and distributed always to the prisoners in the Sbrm.

Plymouth Town Gaol.

Two rooms for felons; and a large room above for debtors. One of the former, the Clink, 17 feet by 8, about 5^ feet high, with a wicket in the door 7 inches by 5 to admit light and air. To this, as I was informed, three men who were confined near two months under sentence of Transportation, came by turns for breath. The door had not been opened for five weeks when I with difficulty entered to see a pale inhabitant. He had been there ten weeks under sentence of Transportation, and said he had much rather have been hanged than confined in that noisome cell. No court: no water: no sewer. The gaolers live distant j they are the three sergeants at mace. Fees, 15*. 10 d.notable. Allowance to debtors, none but on application: felons, two-pennyworth of bread a day. No straw.

1774, Sep. 15, Debtors 3, Felon 1.

1775, Dec. 17, — cs — 0.

1779, Feb. 3, — 1, — 0.

The Shew or (perhaps the) Shoe is the common ward for poor debtors, who beg by letting down a Ihoe,

CORNWALL.

Western Circuit, CORNWALL.

35i

COUNTY GAOL at LAUNCESTON,

FOR FELONS.

GAOLER, John Mulesi deputy, under Coryndon Carpenter Lapn-

Esq. constable of the castle dead.) ck*to».

Salary, lately augmented by the county from £8 to 12.

Fees, Felons, £0;16: 8.

Transports, 4 d.a mile each.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Felons, a three-penny loaf each in two days;white or brown at their option (weight in Dec. 1775, of white bread lib. 10 oz.j,2 lb.

Number, Felons i: c. Felons See,

1774, Feb. 19, 11. 1775, Dec. 23, 6.

--- Sep. 13, 8. 1779, Feb. 4, 4.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Lethbridge.

Duty, Tuesday and Friday.

Salary> £5o*

SURGEON, Mr. Bennet.

Salary, £15.

THIS gaol, though built in the large green belonging to Remarks, the old ruinous castle, i$ very small; house and court measuring only 52 feet by 44 j and the house not covering half that ground. The prison is a room or passage 23^ feet by 7with only one window 2 feet by l|: and three dungeons or cages on the side opposite the window: these are about 6* feet deep;one9feet long; one about 8 j one not 5: this last for women.

They are all very offensive. No chimney: no water: no sewers: damp earth floors: no infirmary. The court not secure; and prisoners seldom permitted to go out to it. Indeed the whole prison is out of repair, and yet the gaoler lives distant. I once found the prisoners chained two or three together. Their provision was put down to them through a

hole

3J*

Laiin-

ckiton

County Gaol.

CORNWALL. Western Circuit.

hole (9 inches by 8) in the floor of the room above (used as a chapel) i and those who served them there, often caught the fatal fever. At my first visit I found the keeper, his assistant, and all the prisoners but one iick of it: and heard that a few years before, many prisoners had died of it j and the keeper and his wife in one night.

I learned that a woman who was discharged just before my first visit, (by the grand jury making a collection for her fees) had been confined three years by the ecclesiastical court, and had three children in the gaol. There is no table of fees.

The king, of his royal bounty, offered /2500 towards a new gaol; but nothing had been done by the county in 1776. Now, in 1779, ^ere is a new gaol for felons, confiding of four cells (8 feet by 6£, and 8 feet high) a day-room, and a court. Over the rooms are the gaoler's apartments. Adjoining is the old gaol, which is to be repaired for felons,

as /500 of the king's bounty is appropriated to that purpose.

I was edified by the serious behaviour of the chaplain at prayers. The prisoners respect him, and were very attentive.

The mayor fends the prisoners weekly one shilling's worth of bread: no memorial of the legacy in the gaol. Transports had not the king's allowance of 2 a week. Neither

clauses against spirituous liquors, nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are hung up.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BODMIN.

F* ide-

MILL.

The county pays £20 a year for this prison. It is much out of repair j and the walls round the court not safe enough

to let prisoners use it. The night-rooms are two garrets, with fma.ll (ky-lights 17 inches by 12, close glazed. I was informed that a few years ago the gaol fever was very fatal, not only in the prison, but also in the town. Keeper's salary lately raised from/20 to 28: fees, i6r. no table. Allowance, a three-penny loaf in two days (weighty Dec. 1775,31 A surgeon to this bridewell;his salary /20.

1774. Sep. 14, Prisoners 19.

1775. Dec. 22, —

1779, ^b. 4, -

29.

*3-

SHERIFF'S

Western Circuit. CORNWALL.

353

SHERIFFS WARD at BODMIN, the COUNTY PRISON for debtors.

KEEPER,

Salary,

Fees,

Licence,

Joseph Gatty> now his Widow.

£25.

Debtors, £0: 13: 4,

besides o: 4: 1 to the sheriff.

of late none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0: 2: o.

Number, Debtors. Debtors.

1774, Sep. 14, 19. 1779, Feb. 4, 13.

1775, Dec. 22, 18.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

THIS prison, for which the sheriff pays£20 a year, is out of repair. A spacious back court; with a stream running through it. The keeper pays window-tax, £3: 7: 0; and some windows were {topped up. He said he had been in that office above twenty years; and during the whole time had but four prisoners who obtained from their creditors the allowance commonly called the groats.

The two prisons at Bodmin above-mentioned, will soon be discontinued. For at my visit in 1779, there was a very convenient and spacious county gaol and house of correction, with separate courts; and rooms for the confinement of each prisoner. It is built on a fine eminence, where there is a constant current of water. There is a good house for the gaoler, a chapel, infirmary, baths &c. By this spirited exertion, the gentlemen of this county have erected a monument of their humanity and attention to the health and morals of prisoners.*

I beg leave here to pay my acknowledgments to John Call, Esq. a worthy magistrate of this county, who has taken unwearied pains in this business, for hi< present of a very elegant drawing and plan of this prison.

A a Falmouth

Bodmin.

Remarks.

354

CORNWALL. Western Circuit*

FaImouthTown Gaol.

Two rooms: no court: no water.

1775, Dec. 19, No prisoners.

Truro Town Gaol.

Built about two years ago upon a good plan. Two houses in front, for the two sergeants at mace who are the keepers. In the back court is the prison; which consists of four convenient rooms, two of them vaulted: no pump.

1775, Dec. 18, No prisoners.

Penzance Town Gaol.

Two close rooms: no court: no water.

1775, Dec. 21, No prisoners.

At Penzance is also A Prison for the Hundred and Liberties of Pen with.

The property of Lord Arundel. Two rooms in the keeper's stable-yard;but distant from his house, and quite out of fight and hearing. The room for men is full 11 feet square, and 6 high: window 18 inches square: no chimney. Earth floor; very damp. The door had not been opened for four weeks when I went in; and then the keeper began to clear away the dirt. There was only one debtor, who seemed to have been robust, but was grown pale by ten weeks close confinement, with little food, which he had from a brother, who was poor and had a family. He said, the dampness of the prison, with but little straw, had obliged him (he spoke with sorrow) to fend for the bed on which some of his children.lay. He had a wife and ten children, two of whom died since he came thither,'the rest were almost starving. — He has written me a letter

since,

since, by which I learn that his distress was not mitigated, and that he had a companion, miserable as himself. — -No allowance. Keeper no salary: fees, 8r. 4 d.every action: no table.

A year or two ago five pri loners, I was- informed} grew desperate by what they suffered in this wretched prison, and broke out.

1775, Dec. 21}Prisoner 1.

Lestwithiel Gaol, for Debtors-

Is the property of the duke of Cornwall, lord of the Stannaries. It was lately repaired and white-washed. The rules extend over the whole borough. The keeper told me that he lately had a prisoner who was arrested for £6: the man had a large family, and not a bad character; yet the plaintiff paid him his groats for two years; and dying the n, bound his estate for the continual payment of them: but the insolvent act freed the prisoner and the estate. Keeper no salary: fees, 13*. 4 no table.

1774, Sep. 14, Prisoners 4.

1775, Dec. 18, — 2.

Penryn Gaol, for Debtors.

St. Leonard's chapel: the property of the earl of Godolphin. One room 13 feet square, 6 high: window about 2 feet by I foot inches. Keeper (a woman) complained of paying rent £4, and of the prison window being taxed with those in her house.

1775, Dec. 19, No prisoners.

A a 2 SOMERSET-

355

Pen-

IANCI,

SOMERSET SHIRE. Western Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at IVELCHESTER.

Ivel- GAOLER, Edward Sc adding.

CHEST‘“ Salary, £25.

Fees, Debtors, o: 14: 4.

Felons, o: 6: 8.

Transports, £3: 12: oeach.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two pence a day each, money;

lately altered to the value in llandard-bread.

Garnish, j£o: 3: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons.

1774, Feb. 21, 31, 22. 1775, Dec. 14, 34, 17.

_ Aug. 2, 45, 18. 1779, Feb. 7, 33, 15.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. , now Rev. Mr.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Sborland.

Salary, £8.

Remarks, THE gaol is near the river, and has no offensive sewers.

The apartments roomy; but the courts too little. They might be enlarged eastward. Women-felons have no day-room: a room, which is fit, and seems to have been designed for that use, is taken by the gaoler for a liable. Assizes never held here. Prisoners are removed for trial to the bridewell at Taunton; or to Bridgewater, where the prison is only one room;or to Wells, where there is no prison*at all: and yet, at Midsummer assize 1775, the prisoners were kept in that city ✓ eight days. The ail for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

_ J

357

Irvelcbejteri Somersetshire. July 29 1761

A True Copy of the Rules and Fees &c. belonging to Ivelchester Gaol signed by the underwritten Gentlemen.

£. S. D.

First To the fees at the discharge of the debtor - 0134

To the turnkey - 010

For every debtor's lodging singly weekly including the use of a bed

and bedding - 016

But if two lodge together each to pay weekly - 009

The gaoler is not to compel any debtor to lodge single.

If a debtor has a bed and bedding of his own then to pay weekly 010 If he lodges in the out-wards, to pay per week - 006

If a bed of his own - 000

Edvjd PhilipsEfq. Rev. Dr. Camplin Doctor of Laws

In° Brtgdalty IVm Giles Strangezvayt

Justices of the Peace.

These laws were approved of and signed by the under-written Judges July 29. 1761

Eardly Wilmot Wm Noel.

Examined by John Donne Clerk of the Peace.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Taunton. Convenient apartments, court, pump &c. If the windows, especially that in the sick ward, were enlarged, and the prison were kept as clean as I once saw it, they would have little to apprehend from the gaol fever j which, some years ago, for want of an infirmary and separation, infected the whole prison, so that of nineteen prisoners, eight died. — Allowance, two pence a day: no employment. Keeper's Hilary, £25: fees, 14;. 4*/. no tabic.

Licence for beer. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. — At my last visit, all the prisoners were in irons.

The county have generously gone to the limit of the act; and appointed to the chaplain of this bridewell, and of that at Shepton-Mallet (as well as to the chaplain of the county gaol) a salary of £50.

1774, Aug. 2, Prisoners 7. 1775, Dec. 14, Prisoners 16.

— Sep. 10, — 5. 1779, Sep. 2, — ' 10.

A a 3 Shepton-

Ivel-

CHESTER

County Gaol.

BRIDEWELLS.

35«

BRIDEWELL.

Bristol,

SOMERSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

Shepton-Mallet. One day-room for men and women. Men's night-room too close; only one small window. The women's night-room too little; the keeper has taken what seems to have been part of it, to make his malt-loft. He told me his prison was some years ago so unhealthy, that he buried three or four a week: no infirmary. He is a sheriff's officer. Licence for beer: salary, £25: fees, 14 s.4 d.no table. Allowance, two pence a day: no employment. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. This prison is white-washed twice a year. — Chaplain, fee Taunton.

1774, Feb. 21, Prisoners 44. 1775, Dec. 13, Prisoners 29.

--- Aug. 3, — 10. 1779, Feb. 7, — 19.

BRISTOL CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports, Licence,

Henry Williams, now William

none. Gown-money 2 a year. Debtors, £0: 6: 8.

Felons, o: 13: 4.

£5: 5: 0 each.

Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a pennyworth of bread a day, before trial; two-pennyworth of bread after conviction.

Garnish,: 2: 7.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtor*. Fcloai&c.

1774, Feb. 22, 58, 3»* 1776, Dec. 16, 35> 18.

Aug. 23, 33, 15- 1779, Feb. 8, 44> 21.

1775, Dec. 7, 36, ib. Sep. 1, 47* 9-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Easterbr

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £36.

SURGEON, Mr. Abel Daggc (f.nce dead.)

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

THIS

Western Circuit. SOMERSETSHIRE.

BRISTOL NEWGATE.

THIS Newgate (as that in the metropolis) (lands in the midst of the city. It is too small for the general number of prisoners. For debtors there are about fifteen rooms;yet no free ward. The poorest pay ten pence halfpenny a week: others, two shillings and six pence. For women-felons, a day-room and several night-rooms. For men-felons, a day-room, with a court-yard adjacent 20 feet by 12. Their dungeon, the Pit, down 18 steps, is 17 feet diameter, and9feet high:

barrack bedsteads: no bedding nor draw. It is clofc and offen-five: only a small window. There is another yard, the Tennis-Court, larger than that of the felons: prisoners are admitted into it by turns. A room or two at the top of the house for an infirmary. There are many narrow passages: the utmost attention is requisite to keep the prison healthy. I found it clean;considering it was so crowded and so close. It was feraped and lime-whited once a year before the late act for preserving the health of prisoners. That act is neatly painted on a board hung up in the chapel, which is commodious and has a gallery: several texts of Scripture are painted in sundry parts of it. — Clauses against: spirituous liquors are not hung up. No table of gaoler's fees.

The Rev. Mr. James Rouquet has been unwearied in attention to the spiritual and temporal interests of the prisoners; officiating near twenty years without a salary. He had only once a gratuity of £20.*Mr. Easterbrook lately appointed. Besides the service noted in its place, there are thirteen sermons a year, for which the preacher has ^4.

John Heydon left £ 100 to be lent to two merchants, each paying annually to the corporation for the prisoners as interest of his moiety, £1: 13: 4. Mrs. Aldsworth left about £$ a year, to be paid by the parish of All Saints; two thirds of it to debtors, who receive the money usually on Christmas eve; the other third part is generally laid out in coverlets or blankets for felons. No memorial in the gaol of any legacy.

This was written before November 1776, when Mr. Rouquet died in the forty-seventh year of his age. The general forrew, and the sermons preached and printed on that occasion, do more than justify what I have laid concerning the zeal of this pious divine.

Aa4 ATablb

'359

Remarks.

360

Bristol*

SOMERSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

A Table of Fees Town Clerk Bristol.

S. D.

Discharge, of prisoner* from the highest felony to the Ieweft misdemeanor o 13 4

Bristol City Bridewell.

Part of it is in the keeper's house, on one side of a common foot-way: and part on the other side. In the keeper's house, the master's-side, are three rooms: one a day-room j in the other two are beds at six pence a night. The common-side, the new bridewell, over the way, consists of two -parts separated by a court of about 50 feet by 17. Each part has two rooms on the ground floor, and two chambers. Total eight rooms, about 18 feet square; windows to the court; no chimneys. The court being quite out of fight of the keeper's house, he does not suffer prisoners to use it; nor the pump in it. They have no water but what is handed to them; and all the rooms are very dirty. Little or no straw: no employment. Keeper's salary raised from £20 to £30. He receives the money for bread allowance, two pence a day: but the prisoners assured me, that what he gave them from his own loaf was far short of two-pennyworth. In Dec. 1775, there was an acquitted woman prisoner detained for fees 31. 6 Those fees were paid, and the prisoner was released. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up.

1774, Aug. 23, Prisoners 6. 1776, Dec. 16, Prisoners 7.

1775, Dec. 8, — 5. 1779, Feb. 8, — 8.

Bath City Gaol.

The afeent to this prison, built in a meadow which is some-ti mes overflowed, is by a fine flight of (tone steps. On the ground floor is the keeper's kitchen &c. and some rooms for petty offenders. Above are three stories; five rooms on each: one or two of them used by the keeper: the rest for debtors;one bed in a room, in which if two prisoners deep, they pay two shillings a week each;if one has it to himself, he pays two illings and six pence a week. Two rooms on the second

story

j

Western Circuit. SOMERSETSHIRE.

story are free wards; on the upper floor is their workshop. There is a court with offensive sewers too near the house. — Keeper, a sheriff's officer: no salary: fees, if from the court of requests, 3*. 6 d.these debtors are cleared in thirteen weeks, paying those fees: debtors for large sums, 7 no

table. Licence for beer. Allowance, to debtors, none j to offenders, 2d.a day: no straw. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up. — No chaplain, nor surgeon.

Debtors. Offenders,

1774. Aug. 6, l6, 2.

1775. Dec. 12, x4» i-

1776, — 16, 11, 0. Deserters 3.

1779. Feb. 10, 10, 2.

Bridgewater Town Gaol.

Only one middle-sized room; and one of the two windows flopped up. In this room at midsummer quarter sessions 1774, were shut up twenty-seven prisoners. At summer assize the same year, thirteen j two of them women. Assize generally lasts from Monday to Saturday. The keeper's mother complained to me of the confusion and distress occasioned by confining prisoners thus for so long a time. She said there were but few, at any time, who could pay for beds, and separate rooms.

1774. Sep. 10,? No Prisoners. 1779, —

YORK-

361

Bath.

York.

(MARKS,

YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL, YORK CASTLE.

GAOLER, Thomas Wharton, now William Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, jfo: 8: 8.

Felons, o: 9: 6.

AdmiiEan, o: 3: 4*

Transports, ' -« 10: 10: o each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, certified by their parish, 7 a fix-penny Felons, - j loaf each on

Tuesday and Friday (weighty Nov. 1774, 3 2

Garnish, cancelled in 1774.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1774. Jan. 25* no. 33- 1776, Sep. 21, 38* 3*-

- — - Nov. 49> 3°* 1779, May 7, 76, *4-

1776, Jan. 26, 89, 44. — - June 28, 73> 16.

CHAPLAINS, Rev. Mr. Pea, and Rev. Mr. Bridges.

Duty, Mr. Peacock Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,

Thursdayj and from Lady-day to Michaelmas, Sunday. Mr. Bridges a sermon on Friday.

Salary, Mr. Peacock/50from the county;Mr. Bridges

£25 from a legacy. Not in the lift.

SURGEON, Mr. Stilingfleet, now Mr. Favell.

Salary, £40 for debtors and felons.

IN the spacious area is a noble prison for debtors, which does honour to the county. You afeend by a fine flight of stone steps to a floor on which are 11 rooms, full 16 feet square, hear 12 feet high. Above them is the same number of rooms: one or two of these for common-side debtors. The rooms are airy and healthy. The debtors weave considerable quantities of garters, purses, laces &c. On the ground floor e the gaoler's apartments &c.

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE.

The felons court is down 5 steps: it is too small, and has no water: the pump is just on the outside of the palisades. The day-room for men is only 24 feet by 8: in it are three cells: in another place nine cells: and three in another. The cells are in general about 71 feet by 6*, and 8* high j close and dark; having only either a hole over the door about inches by 8, or some perforations in the door of about an inch diameter: not any of them to the open air, but into passages or entries. In most of these cells three prisoners are locked up at night; in winter for fourteen to sixteen hours: straw on the stone floors;no bedsteads. There are four condemned rooms about 7 feet square. A fewer in one of the passages often makes these parts of the gaol very offensive: and I cannot say they are clean. Indeed a clean prison is scarcely ever seen, where the water is to be brought in by the gaoler's servants. The next house to the castle-gate, and others in the neighbourhood, have river-water laid in at a moderate expense.

Women-felons are kept quite separate: they have two courts, but no water: you go down four steps to their two close rooms, a day and a night-room. Their condemned room is in another part of the gaol: near it is a room to confine debtors who do not behave well.

The infirmary near the gate is only one middle-sized room. When prisoners of one sex are there, those of the other are excluded: at one of my visits a sick man was kept out for that reason.

At assize some prisoners appear in court on their trial in the county-clothing.* The county pays Mr. John Sherwood /21 a year to inspect and weigh the bread, and deliver it to the prisoners. He constantly attends for this purpose on Tuesday and Friday. The gaoler is a sheriff's officer. Transports convicted at quarter sessions had, besides the bread allowance, one shilling a week. Those cast at assize had the king's allowance of is. 6d.a week.

The grand shire-hall in the castle-yard is now finished. May it not be hoped the gentlemen of this great county will not (lop there, but proceed to build a proper prison for felons, in

Sec a more judicious practice, page 299.

which

363

Yonic

Castle.

364 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

Yo«r which boys may be separated from old offenders, and the other

Castle. inconveniences Gf the present gaol avoided ? — At my Jail visit, ground was marked out for an additional building, opposite to the shire-hall, that there may be a reparation of felons, and also rooms for the flck;

Yorkshire. Orders and Fees settled by the Justices of the Peace of the several Ridings of the County of York and confirmed by the Justices of Assize — which are to be observed and kept by the gaoler — and all prisoners — until the same shall be legally altered.

& D.

First That every knight shall pay for his weekly commons at table if he eats with them - o*34

For his fee if committed by warrant on a civil action - 0134

Every esquire for his commons at table weekly if he eats with them o to For lu's fee if committed by warrant on a civil action - o 10 4

Every gentleman for his commons at table weekly if he eats with them o S o For his fee if committed by warrant on a civil action - o S o

Every yeoman, tradesman or artificer for his weekly commons at table

if he eats with them - 068

For his fee if committed by warrant on a civil action - 034

And it is further ordered that every knight shall pay nightly for his bed 006 Every esquire for the same - 006

Ever)' gentleman for the same - >004

Every yeoman tradesman or artificer for the same - 00a

And that when the gaoler lodgeth two or more prisoners in one bed they shall pay for their lodgings amongst them after the rates above And every prisoner who provides his own bed and bedding shall have a room assigned suitable to his or their quality and shall pay nothing for the fame

And that upon the discharge of a debtor if there be several aftione against him the gaoler shall take no more than one fee and that to be o 6 S

And upon the discharge of every debtor to the turnkeys and no more o 2 o

And that every prisoner shall have liberty to provide and fend forvictuals drink and oilier neccfiaries from any place whatsover at all seasonable times for their own proper use only and not to sell the same And every prisoner committed from the bar by the judge or judges of alTire and gaol delivery in the assize week shall pay for their commitment fee only - o a o

And every person committed to the gaol for suspicion of felony, or for misdemeanor, if upon his or her trial he or she shall be found not guilty and he thereupon discharged, shall pay to the gaoler for his discharging feeo 6 8 N,'d to the turnkeys - oxo

liit every pci Ton convicted or attainted of felony or found guilty mifdcniranor which shall be reprieved and discharged by pardon iy to the gaoler for his discharging fee . -076

the turnkey - 020

And

£. 8- -

And every person that shall appear upon recognizance for suspicion of Jelony and is thereupon committed to gaol and shall not be indi&cd but acquitted by proclamation, shall be discharged paying to the gaoler o 4 o And all others that shall be committed to gaol before the afHzeS'Or gaol-delivery and shall not be indicted but acquitted by proclamation bedif-charged paying to the gaoler - 0 4 o

365

- York Castle.

Yorkshire, to wit. At' the Assizes — held at the Castle of York —

14th July 1735 — the 9th of George II. before the Honourable Alexander Denton Esquire one of his Majesty's Justices of the Court of Common Pleas, and the Honourable William Lee Esquire one of his Majesty's Justices of the Court of King's Bench, — Assigned to deliver the said Gaol — these Orders and Fees, were allowed and approved of by —

Alex Denton Wm Lek.

Yorkshire East Riding

John Grimston Ramsden Barnard

West Riding of Yorkshire Geo

North Riding of Yorkshire

John Dodsworth John Milbanke

John IV

An Account of the Charity given to the Prisoners in his Majesty's Gaol the Castle of York.

c S.

The Lady Lumley, to be given yearly on St. Thomas's day and paid by the lord mayor of York - 6 7 a

The honourable and ancient city of York weekly in bread - 046

Mrs. Frances Thornhill for straw, the lord mayor of York has £30 in

his hands for that purpose - 1 10 o

Dr. Phineas Hodgcfion paid weekly in rolls to all that hear sermons o a o Alderman White's bread by the name of Swain's bread, paid out of a

dose belonging to John Legg, quarterly 6x. 6 - 160

Mr. Bowes gave twenty Shillings to be paid quarterly in bread - i o o

Mrs. Mary Lawson of Micklegate in the city of York widow by will dated the aid July 1749 gave £100 for the discharging of poor prisoners for debt out of the county gaol of York whose debts did not exceed the sum of £20 — and her executrixes — Mrs. Catherine Bower — and Mrs. Ann Maxwell discharged with said money thirty two prisoners.

The right honourable Richard earl of Burlington and Sir George Sa< ile Bart, gave each of them ten guineas for the like use — -with which twenty guineas the Rev. Mr. Kayl-y ordinary of the said gaol discharged eighteen prisoners.

COUNTY

YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit,

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

West-Riding, Wakefield. This prison is unfortunately built upon low ground;so that it is damp, and exposed to Hoods. Four of the wards are spacious; but all the wards are made very offensive by sewers, which are dark. Prison a^d court out of fight from the keeper's house, though ad-jo ining; and some prisoners have escaped. They are now let out to the court only half an hour in the day. The wards are dirty: a prison on ground so low as this, requires the utmost attention to clean liness. — Keeper's salary lately,raised from £$o to £105;he contracting to supply Jlraw and coals. No fees. Allowance, two pence a day: little or no employment. — The infirmary is now finished, confining of two good rooms arched with brick, 21 i feet by 17.

1774, Nov. 4, Prisoners 27. 1776, O&. 27, Prisoners 19.

1776, Jan. 11, — 32. 1779, May 13, — 20.

Impressed Men 4.

Xcrth-Riding, Thirsk. Six rooms on the ground floor, in cr.e of them a chimney. The county has ground enough about this prison to enlarge it, and separate the men and women. If they do, they should think of an infirmary; for the keeper told me his prisoners had the gaol fever not lorg ago. His salary, ^26: 10: o. Fees, Clauses

s^iintt spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Jan. 13, Prisoners 3.

1779, June 28, — 2, and one lunatic.

Ea<r-Riding, Beverley. On the ground floor three small r.: j;ht-rooms; and a new work-room with a chimney: above, four rooms for those that pay. In the court not only u pump, but a cittern of rain-water. Coals, two chaldron ju.i a half a year. No straw. At my lait visit I saw some t.: e-the: ds, which probably were designed for employment. Keeper's salary, £30: fees, 4 no table.

Nov. 2, Prisoners 2. *776* Sep. 21, Prisoners 2.

Jan. 2S, — 1779, May 7> —

YORK

3^7

‘ T

YORK CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, ghiintin Aekant, now Francis Meggefatt. Salary, now £10. He pays £10: 10: p a year to

the under-sheriff.

Fee9, Debtors, £0: 6: 8.

Felons, 0: 7: 8.

Transports, probably the same as at the castle.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but legacies. Remarks.)

Felons, of late, nine pence a week in bread. Garnish, £0: 7: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec.Debtors. Felons See.

1774, Jan. 25, II, 7. 1776, Sep; 21, 10, 2,

- — Nov. 3, 5, 1. and 2 Deserters.

1776, Jan. 26, 9, 3. 1779, May 7, 12, 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Wallis, occasionally.

THIS gaol upon Ouse-bridge, called the , has on Remarks,

one side of the bridge four convenient chambers for debtors, about 11 feet square: for these they pay six pence a week.

Below them is a free ward with barrack beds; and a room to the street. At the window they fell nets, purses, laces &c: over it is an inscription on a stone tablet, “ the poor, lendeth to the Lord.* The act for preserving the

health of prisoners, painted on a board, is hung up in the debtors hall.

The men-felons ward on the other side is down 11 steps: that adjoining, for women, down 10. There is a new room, level with the ground, 31 feet by 14, with opposite and lofty windows, for prisoners committed on suspicion of felony.

At the inner door of this prison, which is of iron grates, I have seen liquors handed to those who seemed to have had enough before. — Formerly there was no water in this prison, but when there was too much j that i?, in a very high flood;

then

YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

York then It flows into the rooms: now water is laid in — Gaoler, CITY* a sheriff's officer for city and county.

It were in vain to offer any hints of improvement. This gaol cannot be made a good one.

The corporation pays free-ward debtors is. nd.^z week by a legacy of Mr. Peacock. No memorial of this in the gaol. But there is a memorandum of another legacy, of Elizabeth Taylor, who by her will dated 21st of October 1580, left 3*. 4 d.to be.divided equally among the prisoners in Ouse-bridge gaol on Lady-day. This has not been received by them for some years.

City of York. At the General Quarter Seffior.s — at Guildhall — 15th July — 1737 before the Right Honourable Sir John Lifter Kaye Bart. Lord Mayor — Thomas Place Esqr. Recorder — Charles Slingby Esq,r. of Coonfel — Sir Tancred Robinson Bart — &c.

Gaoler's Fees settled and Orders made fire.

£. S. D.

For the discharge of every debtor for the first action, to the gaoler o 5 4 And for the discharge of every other action to him - 010

To the porter or turnkey for the first action - 0 I o

And for every other action to him - 006

For the discharge of every other person from the assizes or sessions to the gaoler - 068

And to the turnkey - . - 010

For the first week's diet of all persons in the upper gaol - 070

And for all further time as the prisoner and gaoler can agree. And the gaoler is to permit prisoners to provide their own diet after the first week if the prisoner pleases For lodging if the gaoler finds bed bedding and (heets for the first night 006 And for every oilier night ' - 003

And if two lie in one bed for the first night each - 004

Ar.d for the second and every other night each - 00a

For lodging in the upper gaol if the prisoner finds his own bed, bedding

and ihcets for every week - 006

If two in a bed each - 003

And every prisoner shall have liberty of finding the same if he thinks proper. And the gaoler shall have liberty if he fees occasion to have two beds in each room and no more.

nd it is oidci cd that every person of what degree or condition soever — who shall ufc--(weaving, curling, railing or other indecent behaviour — shall- — pay for evety fuel* ollence twelve pence to the gaoler or his deputy on demand; and on refufitl--to be levied by distress on goods-..or stopped out of flnre of

box-

bo<-money — or stand in charge to be paid before release — the fines to be distributed at gaoler's discretion amongst the most needful in the low gaol. Every prisoner who attempts — or assists an escape — to be ironed.

Those who mutiny on gaoler or deputies — or hinder or disturb &c. — to be kept in clofc confinement.

On default of weekly payments aforesaid — after demand and refusal — a prisoner may be moved from the matter's fide — to the common room.

JL Kaye, Mayor. 7*. Place Sam,

York City Bridewell.

Has a day-room for men, and another for women: the latter is damp. Down steps are five night-rooms for men; and a large one, with barrack bedsteads for women. The whole dirty and offensive. No court: no water: no sewer. Keeper's salary, £20: fees, 2 s,straw, £$ a year: no bread allowance. At one of my visits some prisoners were employed, in beating or pounding tile-fherds for the bricklayers.

1774, Nov. 3, Prisoners 3. 1779, May 8, Prisoners 4.

177.]an. 26, — 1. — r-June 28, — 8.

--- Sep. 20, — 4.

St. Peter's Gaol,

For the liberty of St. Peter of York, near the Minster-gate, is the property of the dean;who holds his courts here. He has lately purchased an adjoining tenement for his gaoler to live in; in consequence, the two rooms in which he lived before are added to the debtors apartments, and they have now four rooms. Under those are two cells for criminals. All out of repair: no court: no sewers. No allowance, but; a chaldron of coals fct Christmas.

There is a printed list of parishes, towns, and parts of towns which are in the liberty of St. Peter. Within the city and ainfty, nine places: in: he East-Riding, sixty-two; West-Riding, forty; North-Riding, fifty-one: and there is one place in each of the following counties j Devonshire, Gloucestershire.

369

You*

City.

37®

YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

Yorkshire, Lancashire, Lincolnshire, Northumberland, Southampton, i. e. Hants. In Nottinghamshire, seven places.

Gaoler a bailiff: no salary. He pays rent, £4: fees, no table.

1776, Jan. 27, Debtor 1.

--- Sep. 20, — 1.

1779, May 8, — 2. Felon 1.

--- June 28, — 5. — 1.

Beverley Town Gaol.

Has on the ground floor two rooms not fronting the street, for men-criminals: and above, a room for women; and two for debtors. No water: no straw. Keeper no salary, but as sergeant at mace has £y. fees, 4*. no table. Licence for beer.

Debtors. Criminals. Debtors. Criminals.

1774, Nov. 2, 1, 0. 1776, Sep. 21, 1, 1.

1776, Jan. 28, 2, 0. 1779, May 7, 2, 0.

The Hall-Garth, for Debtors,

In the liberty of St. John's of Beverley, the property of Charles Anderson Pelham, Esq. built a few years since, has over the hall five sizeable rooms; two of them have fire-places. No court: no water: fees, 4 s. 1 no table. There is a list of 113 towns or parts of towns, that are within the liberty of St. John's of Beverley or Beverley-Hall-Garth.

1774, Nov. 2, Prisoners 2, 1776, Sep. 21, Prisoners 0.

1776, Jan. 28, — O. 1779, May 7, — 1.

Richmond Gaol,

For the very extensive liberty of Richmond and Richmond-shire, the property of Lord Holderness, of the Marquis of Carnarvon. It is also the bridewell, and the borough gaol. For debtors, a kitchen and bed-room, close glazed. For men-

criminals.

371

Criminals, two dungeons down 5 steps: for women, a rooth above. No straw. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up. A court, and a well. Gaoler a bailiff: no salary for the liberty: for the bridewell, /“13: 10: o: for the borough, £\: pays window-tax: fees, debtors, 6 s. 8 at entrance, and 6s. Sd. at discharge: criminals, allowance to the latter, four pence a day.

In the table of fees, dated 1671, and signed W Wylde and 7y Lyttletoriy the 12th article is, “Every person or persons that shall be committed upon any warrant — upon his or their commitment to gaol shall pay to the rest of the prisoners, 2s. 4d.for their garnish.”

1776, Oct. 26, Debtors 6.

1779, May 8, — 6. Petty Offender 1.

Rippon Liberty Gao

Is the property of the archbishop, by a charter from king Edward IV. His court adjoining, is called the Court Military. The liberty includes twenty-four parishes. For debtors, four or five good rooms in the keeper's house; but no free watdi. For felons, ohe strong room quite dark; another \fcith a little window. Formerly there was a deep dungeon, but the prefertt steward, instead of repairing it, very humanely ordered it to be filled up. Keeper, no fklary; he pays rent: he is a bailiff. Fees, debtors, 131. 4 dino table: licence for beer,

1776, Oct. 26, Debtors 2.

1779, May — 3.

Rippon Gaol,

For the Canon-Fee Court, belongs to the dean and chapter of Rippon. It is not only a gaol for that court, but a house of correction for the liberty. Two or three rooms for debtors* but no free ward. The bridewell part, two darkrooms, about 8 feet square. No court: no water. No salary as gaoler; as

y

Richmond.

372

RlPi'OK.

YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

keeper of bridewell, £10 i JO: o. Fees, debtors, 13*. 4 no table: licence for beer. Keeper a bailiff.

1776, O&. 26, No Prisoners.

1779, May 8, Debtor 1. Petty Offender 1.

Knaresborough Prison, for Debtors,

In the honour or forest of Knaresborough, the liberty including nineteen township &c. is the property of the duke of Devonshire, lessee to his Majesty. It is almost the only remains of a castle granted by king Edward III. to John of Gaunt duke of Lancaster. One room about 12 feet square, is boarded, has a chimney, and the window is glazed: another inner room is about 8 feet square, and has no window. No court: no sewer: no water. Keeper lives distant: salary none: fees, 6 s.Sd.

17761 ?,a- 26A No Prisoners.

1779, May 8,3 -

Knaresborough Prison, for Town Debtors,

Is under the hall. Of difficult access;the door about feet from the ground. Only one room, about 12 feet square: window 17 inches by 6. Earth floor: no fire-place: very offensive j a common sewer from the town running through it uncovered. I was informed that an officer, confined here some years since, for only a few days, took in with him a dog to defend him from vermin;but the dog was soon destroyed, and the prisoner's face much disfigured by them.

1776, oa. 26,? No Prisoners.

1779, May 8,3

Knaresborough Town Gaol.

Is under the landing-place between two flights of stone steps, that lead up to the hall. Only one room about 8. feet by 5: two windows 18 inches by 6. I mention this small prison, because in it are sometimes confined for a night or two at quarter sessions six or seven prisoners, men and women.

*7^' 9* No Prisoners.

1779, May 8,3

Doncaster

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE.

Doncaster Town Gaol.

Two rooms for felons, and two over them for debtors: all-have chimneys. No water. Keeper one of the sergeants at mace, lives distant. Fees, is.4 Allowance to felons, 4 a day.

1775, Jan. 5, Prisoners 2.

1779, June 27, o.

Bradford Prison,

For Debtors from the Court of Requests, for Halifax, &c. &e.

A new prison, confiding of four rooms, and a work-room. Court not secure: no water. The deputy keeper pays rent £2: 5: 0 for his house to the gaoler, who pays rent to the clerk of the court, by whom he is appointed. Prisoners arc discharged. at the end of three calendar months. Fees, 5 s,*

1779, May 13, Prisoners 12.

Leeds Town Gaol.

Four good rooms, and a small one. No chimney: no court: no water: no sewer. Keeper lives distant.

1774, Nov. 4,

1776. Jan. I2, No Prisoners.

1779, May 13,3

Kingston upon Hull Town and County Gaol.

The debtors ward is a large room. Over it one as large, and over that, another smaller, both for . The ground-

room is a damp dungeon: but the gaoler, who has a character for humanity, allured me that no one had been confined in it for many years. In his house adjoining is a room or two with beds, for those who pay. Leads for debtors to walk on: no court; no water accessible to criminals: no sewer; and the

By the 17th Geo. III. Cap. XV.

374

Hoti.

YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

felons rooms are offensive. Gaoler no salary: fees, 13/. 4 no table. Allowance to felons, three pence a day. Gaol delivery once in three years.* The a & for preferring the health of prisoners, is hung up.

Debtors. Felons &c* Debtors. Felons

1774, Nov. I, 5, O. 1776, Sep. 21, 4> 5-

1776, Jan. 29, 6, 3. 1779, May 7> 8>

Kingston upon Hull Bridewell.

Two rooms below, and two up {lairs, about 12 feet square; very offensive: no fire-place. Court only 22 feet by 10; pot secure, and prisoners not permitted to go to the pump: no sewer: no allowance: no draw. Not white-washed since it was built. Debtors from the court of conscience sent hither.

The prisoners pound tile-fherds to mix in mortar (for which they have 2d. a bushel); and pick oakum (for which they

are allowed 4 d.~ per (lone). Keeper's salary, £5 j a chaldron of coals j and four thousand turfs: fees, 2J. 6 no table. 1774, Nov. 1, Prisoners 2. 1776, Sep. 21, Prisoners 0.

1776, Jan. 29s — 5. 1779, May 7, — n.

Every time a raving lunatic, and the lad time another lunatic.

Sheffield Prison, for Debtors,

For the liberty of Hallamshire, is the property of the duke of Norfolk, now of the earl of Surry. The two lower rooms are free wards: there are two rooms over them. The court is only about 10 feet square. Both this and the prison might be enlarged on ground adjacent that belongs to his lordship. Keeper no salary: he rents a public house joining to the prison. Debtors from the court of requests are discharged at the end of thirteen weeks.

1776, Jan. 10, Prisoners 6.

— 0ct. 28, — 4.

1779, May 14, — 8.

See page ao.

Sheffield

i

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE.

Sheffield Town Gaol.

The Lobbies under the town-hall are two small rooms, the largest only about 8 feet square, and 6 high. Aperture in the door of 6 inches diameter. When the quarter sessions for the West-Riding are held, at this town, offenders are locked up a night or two in this prison.

1776, Oct. 28, Deserter 1.

1779, May 14, No Prisoners.

Rothwell Prison, for Debtors,

Belongs to the liberty of the honour of Pontefract in the duchy court of Lancaster. Is out of repair. A new prison is lately built at

Batley. Behind a house for the keeper is the prison. Plan rectangular: the front is the wall and gate. On three ftdes are rooms for men-debtors;five or six about 10 feet square; four much larger for two beds in each. Two day-rooms j two work-rooms; and a dark room for the unruly. There are in a separate court two rooms for women-debtors: a provision very kind and prudent, and, I believe, peculiar to this prison. All the prison rooms are on the ground floor.* The keeper has no salary. Fees, fee

In the old prison at Rothwell, I saw both times I was there, one William Carr, a weaver: he had given a bad name to a woman who was said not to deserve a very good one: she cited him to the ecclesiastical court; and he was imprisoned 4th of May 1774. He had a wife and three children. I will transcribe a line or two of the warrant. — For as much as the royal power ought not to “ be wanting to the holy church in its complaints — attach the said W. C. — until he shall have made satisfaction to the holy church as well for the contempt “ as for the injury by him done unto it.'* He was discharged 26th July 1776 by the insolvent aft.

1774, Nov. 4, Prisoners 1776, Jan. 25, —

— oa. 27, —

1779, May 13, —

Rothwell.

22,3

37&

Batlxt.

YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

I wish my reader be not tired with so many tables of fees, even for the counties. Yet I think I must not omit the fees which I saw in this private prison at Rothwell: because some of them are high; and at Halifax they are the fame. The table, at my first visit, was regularly signed, nth Jannr. 1732. At my last visit at Batley, I found a new table of fees, dated 26th July 1776, the sums entirely the fame.

£. S.

Imprimis. That every gentleman shall pay for his first week's commons at table, and for his commitment fee - o 16 o

And for every week following - 050

Item. Every yeoman, tradesman, or artificer, for the first week's commons at table and commitment fee - 0134

And for every week following - 040

And be it further ordered, that every gentleman shall pay nightly for his bed - 004

And every yeoman, tradesman, or artificer, lodging in good rooms and on feather beds - 00*

And it is also ordered that when the gaoler lodgeth two or more prisoners in one bed they shall pay amongst them night according to their numbers - 003

And that every prisoner shall have liberty to provide for him or herself whatever necessaries he or she shall want from any person or place whatsoever.

And that every prisoner shall be furnished with necessaries according to his, her or their degrees and quality, paying a reasonable price for the fame.

And that but one fee shall be taken by the gaoler for any prisoner's discharge, although there has been more than one action against him or her, which fee shall be - o 17 4

And to the turnkey - 010

Item. For allowing every supersedas in every action. - 0 6 S

Item. For allowing every writ of babtat ccrput besides conduit money to be paid and allowed according to the distance from the said gaol to the place where the body is to be removed o 6 S

Hen, Wickham P, Milnes H. Zouch.

We — do hereby confirm the same — this 26th day of July 1776.

y. Norton

>. Milne, W. H. Ashurst.

H. Zouch,

Halifax

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE.

377

Halifax Prison,

For the manor of Wakefield, dated 1662, is the property of the duke of Leeds. For master's-side debtors, rooms in the keeper's public house. Through this you pass to a court about 14 yards by 7: at the further end of which is a sizeable room on the ground floor for common-side debtors, it is called the Low Gaol: over it a chamber (the Low Gaol Chamber) where prisoners pay one shilling a week. The whole prison greatly out of repair: it rained in upon the beds: the rooms were clean. Keeper, no salary: he pays the duke £24. a year: fees, fee Batley, preceding page.*

1776, Jan. 24, Debtors 9.

-- Sep. 16, — 7.

1779, May 13, — 5.

In this town formerly the barons (as in many other places) and after them various proprietors had power of life and death. The method of execution was decollation by an axe in an engine. The axe is preserved in the gaol to this day. Two men in 1650 were the last who suffered by it.

When any felon was here found guilty, the bailiff immediately returned him back to prison for the space of one week or thereabouts, and on every market-day, there being three a week, the felon was set in the public flocks j and either upon his back, if the thing stolen was portable, or if not, then before his face the goods were so placed, that they might be noted by all passengers.

If it was a horse, an ox, or cow &c. that was taken with the prisoner, it was thither brought along with him to the place of execution, and fattened by a cord to the pin that flayed the block, so that when the time of the execution came (which was known by the jurors holding up one of their hands) the bailiff, or his servant, whipping the beast, the pin was plucked out, and execution done. But if there was no beast in the felon's case, then the bailiff, or his servant, cut the rope. See Halifax and its Gibbet-Law.

DURHAM.

DURHAM. Northern Circuit-.

COUNTY GAOL at DURHAM.

Durham. GAOLER, Bainbridge,now Bungey, by

patent from the bishop durante bene placite. Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, - £0: 10: 0,

Felons at Assize, 0: 16: 8.

at Quarter Sessions, o: 13: 4* Transports, about £io: 10: 0 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks,)

Felons, two pence a day.

Garnish, Debtors,: 4: 6.

Felons, 0: 1: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec.Debtors. Felons&c,

1774, March 20, 37, 21. 1776,0<ft. 25, 18, 6.

1775. Jan* 6, 9, 20. 1779, June 29, 14, 22.

1776,--- 14, 21, 12. Deserter 1.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr.

Duty, Sunday and Thursday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Bainbridge.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

Remarks. THE high gaol is the property of the bishop. By patent from his lordship, Sir Hedworth Williamson, Bart. is perpetual sheriff. The court for master's-side debtors is only 24 feet by 10. Common-side debtors have none at all: their free wards, the Low Gaol,are two damp unhealthy rooms 10 feet inches square, by the gate-way: they are never suffered to go out of these, unless to chapel, which is the master's-side debtors halland not always to that: for on a Sunday when I was there and miffed them at chapel, they told me they were not permitted to go thither. No sewers: at more than one of my visits, I learned that the dirt, ashes &c. had lain there many months.

Northern Circuit. DURHAM.

There is an excellent double-barreled pump, which raises water about 70 feet.

Felons have no court; but they have a day-room and two small rooms for an infirmary. The men are put at night into dungeons: one 7 feet square for three prisoners: another, the Great Hole, 17 feet by 12, has only a little window. In this I saw fix prisoners, (in 1776) most of them chained

to the floor. In that situation they had been many weeks j and were very sickly. Their draw on the (lone floor almost worn to dust. Long confinement, and not having the king's allowance of 2S. 6d. a week, had urged them to attempt an escape: after which the gaoler chained them as above. There is another dungeon for women-felons 12 feet by 8 5 and up Hairs a separate room or two.

The common-side debtors in the low gaol, whom I saw eating boiled bread and water, told me, that this was the only nourishment some had lived upon for near a twelvemonth. They have from a legacy one shilling and six pence a week in winter, and one shilling a week in summer for coals. No memorandum of it in the gaol; perhaps this may in time be loft, as the gaoler said two others were, viz. one of bishop Crewe, and another of bishop Wood;from which, prisoners had received no benefit for some years past. But now the bishop has humanely filed bills in chancery for the recovery of these legacies. The clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up. Gaol delivery once a year. At my last visit there were five boys between thirteen and fifteen years of age, confined with the most profligate and abandoned.

There was a vacant piece of ground adjacent, of little use but for the gaoler's occasional lumber. It extends to the river, and measures about 22 yards by 16. I once and again advised the endofing this for a court: but when I was there in January 1776, I had the mortification to hear that the surgeon, who was uncle to the gaoler, had obtained from the bishop in October preceding, a lease of it for twenty-one years, at the rent of one shilling per annum. He had built a little (table on it.

379

Durham County Gaol.

DURHAM. Northern Circuit,

Durham County Gaol.

TABLE OF FEES &c.

Rules and Orders established by the Justices for the County Palatinate of Durham and Sadberge at their General Quarter Sessiona — 16th July 1729 — and Fees allowed to be taken by the Keeper of the said Gaol and his Officers as follows.

S. D.

imprimis, For every prisoner lodging in either of the comtnon-fides

commonly called the low gaol, no chamber-rent 000

Item For an entire chamber without a bed-fellow in the high gaol 036 For lodging with a bed-fellow in any other chamber except the common

chamber, for each prisoner every week - o a o

For lodging with a bed-fellow in the common chamber, of each prisoner every week - 0 1 3

For lodging in a single bed in that common chamber without admitting of a bed-fellow in every week - 0 1 6

Out of which abatement shall be made For every prisoner that findeth his own bedding bedcloaths and (heets and admitting a bed-fellow with him every week - 004.

For Diet of Prisoners.

Item For every knight for every week - 0 10 0

Of every esquire or gentleman not exceeding for every week 076

Item Of every yeoman artificer or labourer not exceeding weekly 060

For wine ale and brandy at the common rates used in the town.

For Liberates or Final Discharges of Prisoners.

Item For the discharge of every prisoner upon process or order from court of chancery -

For the first liberate -

Item For every knigh: esquire or gentleman for the second ditto For every one more -

Item For every yeoman artificer or labourer for the first For the second - For every one more -

oxoo

oxo

039

016

088

039

0x6

Fees to the Under Keeper and Door Keeper.

Item For attendance of every prisoner that goeth abroad into the town

every time - 004

For every knight esquire or gentleman for his final discharge and enlargement only - 006

For every yeoman artificer or labourer for such discharge only 000

Tho B urdus JotMorland

Hcny Foster, Mayor Giles Rayne:

We Sir Francis Page Knight one of the Justices of his Majesty's Court of King's Bench and Sir Barn. Hale Knight one of the Barons of his Majesty's Court of Exchequer at Westminster now

Justices

Northern Circuit. DURHAM.

Justices of Assize for the Northern Circuit have reviewed the above.Table of Fees and have thought fit to moderate the item or article of two shillings a week for lodging with a bedfellow in any other chamber except the common chamber to be paid by each prisoner, and instead thereof do appoint one shilling and (ix pence per week to be paid by each prisoner so lodging with a bedfellow whiclr said table with such alteration is hereby confirmed by us

Dated the 2d day of August 1729

F Pace B Hale.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at DURHAM,

Was built, as appears by the date over the door, in 1634. Being on the side of a hill, the rooms are airy. No court: no water: the late keeper Watson had a garden which he let for a guinea a year. He lived at the high gaol; and put in a woman to take care of this prison. But the justices now have very properly put in a keeper who relides in the prison j at my last visit the house was clean, the prisoners were at work, and their looks bespoke the attention of a good keeper. Salary, £30, and ten guineas from the rents of the adjoining houses.

1775. Jan. 6, Prisoners 5.

1776, Jan. 14, — 7*

— Oct. 25, — 6.

1779, June 29, — 9, and three lunatics.

NEWCASTLE

Durham County Gaol.

Bridewell.

NEWCASTLE upon TYNE. Northern Circuit.

Newcastle.

Remarks.

NEWCASTLE TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Salary, Fees,

Transports. Licence,

John Crafter, now Thomas Hark,

£50, and £2 gown-money. Debtors, £0 z 10: 8.

Felons, o: 14: 4. only expense. now Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, two pence a day, on petition.

Felons, two pence a day.

Garnish, lately cancelled.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1774, Mar. 21, 6, 2. 1776, Jan. 15, 14, 3.

- 1775* Jan- 8* 12* 4- *779> June 3°> J3> 4-

CHAPLAINS, Rev. Mr. Brunt on, and Rev. Mr. Brand.

Duty, On Sunday none; but on two other days

prayers: and once a month sermon. None of the days fixed. The chaplains officiate alternately a month each.

Salary, v £\o the corporation, and Sir W. Blacket.

SURGEON, Mr. Ba, now Mr. Salary, none: he makes a bill.

IN this Newgate, which is the gate at the upper end of the town, all the rooms except the condemned room are up stairs, and airy: I always found them remarkably clean, strewed with sand &c. The corporation allow both debtors and felons firing and candles in plenty: and every prisoner has a chaff bed, two blankets, and a coverlet: debtors and felons are not thus accommodated in any other prison in England. They also allow brooms, mops, and all such necessaries. The sums generously allowed for those articles, amount to £45 11: 4 per annum. This is one of the very few gaols that have what is called in London the rules. Part of two streets near the gaol is in the prison-liberty.

Northern Circuit. NEWCASTLE.

The debtors walk on the battery at the top of the gaol, which is 38 feet by 34. There is no court: but one might be made of the vacant ground that lies west of the gaol. The debtors beds are in closets: if on iron bedstead9 and in the wards (as in some hospitals) it would be more salutary. - No prisoners here have fetters, unless they be riotous. For some years past, prisoners acquitted have been discharged in court; the corporation paid the gaoler's fees if the prisoners were poor. — Gaol delivery once a year.

I was concerned to find that the humane gaoler Crafter was dead. But his successor Mr. Harle is equally worthy of the trust.

Dr. Rotheram, a physician in this town, visits the prisoners very assiduously without fee or reward. This is the only instance of the kind I have met with.

The act for preserving the health of prisoners was hung up, both on the debtors and felons side. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

A palisaded wall is erected at a little distance from the felons window, to prevent files &c. being conveyed to them.

An exact Copy of the Rates and Fees to be from henceforth received by — the Gaoler or Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol — called Newgate within this Town of Newcastle upon Tyne — settled — at the General Quarter Sessions held at Guild-hall in Newcastle aforesaid, on the 15 of July Anno* Domn‘l 1730/ And approved of at the Assize following by Francis Page and John Fortescue A two of his said Majesty's Judges of Assize According to an Act of Parliament lately made

(viz)

Every prisoner upon any civil aGion shall pay to the keeper at his first coming in- - 03*

Every prisoner charged by process or processes out of the court of record held before the mayor and (tariff of the said town of Newcastle upon Tyne respectively shall pay to the said keeper upon his discharge from the said process or processes only - o 6 S

Every prisoner charged upon any execution or executions out of the court of conscience held within the said town shall pay to the said keeper upon his discharge from the said execution or executions - 0

Every prisoner on any criminal account or accounts whatsoever shall pay unto the said keeper upon his discharge only - 0 13 4

383

Newcastle.

NEWCASTLE. Northern Circuit.

£.s. D.

Every person appearing upon a recognizance at the assizes and afterwards tried upon any indictment or indictments whatsoever and shall be committed thereon shall pay to the said keeper upon his discharge - o 6 8

Every prisoner shall pay to the turnkey of the said gaol or prison upon

his discharge - oio

Confirmed by us

Henry Re ay. Mayor. John Isaacson, Recorder.

Richard Ridley, Wm Ellison, Francis Rudfion, i

Nathanael Clayton, Stephen Coulson, 3 ermen.

We do approve of this Table of Fees July 27. 1730

Francis Page 1 John Fortescue a 3

There are also at Newcastle,

A Bridewell. A room for men;another for women. A new building is now added, confiding of fix rooms. Three of them on the ground floor, are 17 feet by 12, and arched with brick. The walls of the court not being secure, the prisoners have no access to it. Their allowance is two pence a day, and firing. The keeper is a sergeant at mace. He has no salary, but the profit of the prisoners work. The water is lately brought near the prison.*

1775, Jan* Prisoner 1.

1776, — 15, — 5-

1779, June 3°, — 7.

A small Gaol, the Tower of the,confiding of three rooms over the gate-way. No court: no water. Allowance, two pence a day.

1775, Jan* 8, Prisoners 2.

1776, — 15, — 1.

1779, June 30, — 1.

Where prisoners are always locked up, there should be water laid in to each ward, as I have seen in foreign houses of correction.

NORTHUM-

Northern Circuit. NORTHUMBERLAND.

3«S

COUNTY GAOL at MORPETH.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports. Licence,

John Kent. none.

Debtors, £o: : 6.

Felons, I: 3: 0. only expenses.

Beer.

Morpeth*

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on applying to justices.

Felons, two penceaday each,

Garnish, £0: 1: 4.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1774, Mar. 22, 8, 8. 1776, Jan. 16, 9, 11.

1775, Ja«- 9> 6> 7- 1779, July r> I0> 6-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Nicholson.

Duty, Sunday, Tuesday, Friday.

Salary, £*0* and £5 for condemned felons; lately

raised to £30.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Leidman. none: he makes a bill.

THE debtors have six sizeable rooms which are out of repair. Remarks, Some commodious rooms lately built are occupied by the gaoler.

Only one court, which is for debtors. Felons are always locked in the tower. In the women's room I saw (Jan. 1776) two; who, the gaoler said, were cast for transportation; one in Sep. 1773, the other in Nov. 1774: but at my last visit, I found they had been humanely released at the assize.

Of the other two rooms, generally appropriated to men-felons, one is a day-room, the other an offensive dungeon, the window only 18 inches by 9. In the latter were three transports (1776) who, upon fufp'tcion of intending an escape, were chained to the floor. They had not the king's allowance of 2 s. 6d. a week.

C c Gaol

386 NORTHUMBERLAND. Northern Circuit,

Morpeth Gaol delivery once a year. Assize held at Newcastle, whither County prisoners are conveyed; and men and women confined together Gaol* four or five nights in a dirty damp dungeon down 6 steps in the old castle, which having no roof, in a wet season the water is some inches deep.

The county has for some years paid the gaoler's fees for acquitted prisoners, if poor: and clothed such transports as were quite indigent.

The debtors court should be allotted to felons: and one for debtors might be taken from the gaoler's spacious garden.

Clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up. The act for preserving the health of prisoners, painted on a board, was in the debtors hall or chapel. The following table of fees is framed and glazed.

Table of Fees &c. Settled and allowed to be due to the Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol at Morpeth — by the Justices — at the Quarter Sessions — held — at Hexham 1759.

Commitment Fees.

Every debtor £0: 1: 4 Every felon £0:

Chamber-Rent s.

£. 5. D.

To the room called the green room with one bed in it and if only one person will have it to himself, to pay weekly - 0 6

If two persons therein to pay each - 016

To the room called Burton's room having two beds, and the gaoler

finding bedding and linnen, each person to pay weekly - 010

But if one will have a bed is to pay - o a o

To the little green room having one bed and if one person will have it.

to himself he is to pay weekly - o a 6

If two therein only to pay each - 0 I 6

The gaoler finding good and wholesome bedding To the room called the fencing room with three beds and the gaoler finding wholesome linen each person to pay weekly - 0 I o

To the little room called Mrs. Carr's room the gaoler finding beds and

linen each person is to pay weekly - o i o

If the prisoner finds the bedding - .006

To a room called Mr. Johnson's room; being on the same floor, the

gaoler finding bed and linen each person to pay - 010

If they find their own bedding, only -v . .006

There

£.S.D.

There is a large room that prisoners pay nothing for, which holds a

great many beds, called the middle tower - >000

Every debtor upon his discharge to pay to the gaoler - o 10 a

To the turnkey - 010

Every felon on his discharge - 0184

To the turnkey - o a o

John O

Step, W

Wm. Ward.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MORPETH.

The three lower rooms are close. That above for women is larger and more airy. The court not being secure, the prisoners are generally locked up. Over the way is a long room (72 feet) which is a warehouse and work-(hop: and above it another workshop. The keeper, a clothier, employs his prisonersj the men and boys from eight o'clock to four, at two shillings a week: women from eight to five, at one shilling and six pence a week. He gives them also firing. No county allowance. His salary, £30: no fees.

1775, Jan. 9> Prisoners 2.

1776, — 16, — 8.

1779. July — 3*

C c 2 BERWICK

38;

Morse th

County Gaol.

Bmpe-

WILL.

BERWICK upon TWEED.

Berwick.

Remarks.

BERWICK* TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

1

GAOLER, John Richardson

Salary, £16.

Fees, Debtors, Freemen, 7 f

Felons, 5

Debtors not free,:

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, Freemen, four pence a day, and coals.

Ditto, not free, jj (W0pence halfpenny a day.

Garnish, £0: 1: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c.

1776, Jan. 17, 5, 2.

1779, July 1, 2, o. Impressed Men 8*

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None; but on application to the magistrates.

THIS gaol is part of the grand town-hall, which was built in 1757, and has a fine ftceple: the only one in the town. The four rooms or cells on the ground floor are damp, and prisoners are not put into them, but over the hall, where is a long room, or gallery, and seven other rooms, sizeable, but dirty. No court: no water. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. The gaoler keeps a public house. He told me he went to the gaol thrice a day;at nine, one, and eight.

This place, though a distinct jurisdiction, in none of the circuits, is inserted here, rather than at the end of the English and Welsh counties, because its situation gives it a natural connexion with the last mentioned county, and it falls in here in the order of my journey through the northern part of the kingdom.

3*9

Northern Circuit. CUMBERLAND.

COUNTY GAOL at CARLISLE.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

Brathwaite Atkinson, now Thomas

ii: o.

Debtors, 1 r

Felons, \L

f i each to Whitehaven. Beer. The tap let.

Carlisle.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, on applying to the justices so'me

obtain a shilling a week, some nine -pence.

Felons, nine pence a week con vision;

a shilling

Garnish, so: i: o.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons&c.

1774, March 23, 49, 4. 1776, Sep. 19, 15, 2.

1776, Jan. 20, 29, 7. 1779, May 10, 32, 21.

French Prisoners 12. CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Parish.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday; first Sunday

in the month, ftrnion.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Lojh.

Salary, fi: 2: 0 for attendance. Medicines paid for by bill.

THE court spacious, 85 yards by 36: it was common to Remarks. all prisoners; but now a part is appropriated to the felons and separated by iron palisades. In the court is a chapel, built, as appears by the date, in 1734. Five rooms for master's-fnie debtors; and as many on the common-fide. Mod of the latter are large, but have windov/s to the street. Where there are so many rooms, not to separate the men and women is certainly inexcusable.

The wards for felons are two rooms down a step or two; dark and dirty. One of them, the day-room, had a window

39°

Carlisle

County Gaol*

Bridewell.

CUMBERLAND. Northern Circuit.

to the street; through which spirituous liquors and tools for mischief might be easily conveyed: but it is now bricked up. The night-room is only 11 feet by 9: at my last visit, and women were lodged together in it. Two rooms over the felons wards, which have been used as tap-rooms, seem to be intended for the women only, but in one of these I also found three men and four women lodged together. No infirmary. Transports had not the king's allowance of 2 6 a week.

CJaufcs against spirituous liquors, and act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up. Gaol delivery once a year. Few gaols have so many convenient rooms for common-side debtors. It is the more remarkable here, because there is no table signed by the magistrates to particularize the free wards. Some gaolers avail themselves of such a circumstance, and demand rent for rooms which were undoubtedly designed for common-side prisoners.

The gaol fever, which some years ago carried off many of the prisoners, did not deter Mr. Parish from visiting the sick every day.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COCKERMOUTH.

Is behind the keeper's house, and part of it his freehold. A room on the ground floor, the Strong Room. Up stairs another room; and a elofet called the Lunatic Room. All out of repair, and infccure: and so is the court, which I suppose is the reason that many for small offences are fenttothe county gaol. No allowance: no straw. Keeper's salary or rent, ^20: no fees.

1776, Sep. i8,7 1779, May io,5

No Prisoners.

Carlisle City Gaol,

Over the Scotch-gate. Only one ruinous room about 20 feet squarej with a window feet by 1 No allowance, but

a very

Northern Circuit. WESTMORLAND. '

a very small quantity of peat taken as a toll upon that com- Ca* modify, and water brought twice a day.

I was told that many a poor traveller from the north, who by some calamity had contracted an unavoidable debt of forty shillings, has been confined at a distance from his friends in this prison, where there is no provision, nor any means of procuring it.

1776, Jan. 20, Debtors 3.

— Sep. 19, — 1.

1779, May 10, — 3, two Men, one Woman.

Whitehaven Town Gaol.

Is part of the work-house. Two rooms up (fairs; and a dungeon in which they used to confine transports brought hither to be shipped. All dirty and offensive.

1779, Sep. 18, No Prisoners.

WESTMORLAND.

COUNTY GAOL at APPLEBY.

GAOLER, Benjamin Ainjley.

Salary, /io. (See Remarks.)

Transports, a shilling a mile each to Whitehaven.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, four pence a day each.

Garnish, £0: 1: 0.

Number, Debtors. FelonsAc. Debtors. Felons.

1774, Mar. 24, 7, 4. 1776, Sep. 19, 3, 3.

1776, Jan. 22, 3, 0. 1779, May 9, 8, 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

392

WESTMORLAND, Northern Circuit.

Appleby

County Gaol.

Remarks*

Bridewells*

APPLEBY.

THIS gaol was built by the county. The earl of Thanet is hereditary sheriff, and pays the gaoler his salary. Happily for the prisoners in a gaol so circumstanced, the present gaoler is a man of temper and humanity.

At page 26, I complained of this prison being within reach of floods: but in Jan. 1776, there was a new building on the highest part of the yard. It consists of four vaulted wards for felons, 15 feet by 13 j a window in each, but no chimney: and over them three good rooms with chimneys, for debtors.

Gaol delivery once a year. — No table of fees. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Appleby. Two rooms, 11' feet by 8^: no chimney: each has a small window into a liable: subject to floods. — No allowance. Keeper's salary,: no fees.

1776, Jan. 22,

— - Sep. 19, C No Prisoners.

1779, May 9,3

Kendal. Only one room for men and women, 18 feet by 13, with one window about 2 feet square: no chimney: no court: no water: no sewer. The keeper has a garden: salary, £6: 10: o. No fees. — The town sometimes commits prisoners hither, and allows them six pence a day $ the county, four pence.

1776, Jan. 23, Prisoners 3, two Men, one Woman.

— Sep. 18, — o. Deserter 1.

1779, May 11, — 0.

Kendal Town Gao

Only two dungeons under the chapch 14 steps under ground. No court: n

b;

Northern Circuit. LANCASHIRE.

Allowance, six pence a day. The two town sergeants keep the prison by turns; a week each.*

1776>

1779,

Jan. 23,7 May ii,5

No Prisoners.

LANCASHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, LANCASTER CASTLE.

GAOLER, John Dane (ftnce dead.)

Salary* none.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 8: 0.

Felons, 0: 13: 4.

Transports, £5 each. (See Remarks.)

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 7 one shilling each on Saturday Felons, 5 morning.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 7: 2.

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons See, Debtors. Felons Arc,

1774, Mar. 25, 74, 13. 1776, Sep. 17, 32, 19.

1775, Nov. 20, 48, 17. 1779, May 11, 72, 11.

Impressed Men 17.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Spicer, now Rev. Mr. Watson, Duty, Sunday twice* Wednesday and Friday once.

Salary, /50.

SURGEON, Mr Dixon.

Salary, now £10: 10: 0.

I have not censured the management of any work-houses (though highly deserving it) because foreign to my subject. But 1 will take the liberty to extol the economy, industry and cleanliness of the Kendal work-house. It makes some amends for the inconvenience of the town gaol, which occasions the fending town-prisoners to the county bridewell as above,

THE

393

Kbmdal.

Lancaster,

LANCASHIRE. Northern Circuit,

LANCASTER CASTLE.

Remarks* THE castle-yard is spacious. Master's-side debtors have many apartments. One of them which they call the is said to have been used as such in the time of John of Gaunt duke of Lancaster: the diameter, 24 feet; the height, that of an ordinary room. The free ward for debtors is large but dark. These, as well as those of the master's-side, are allowed to walk and work (spin, knit &c.) in the crown and {hire halls.* The latter is used as a chapel.

Petty offenders are sometimes sent hither, because the bridewells are distant. There is a large room for them near the gate; and they are kept separate from felons.

Men and women-felons have their day-rooms apart, at the upper end of the court. Women sleep in their day-room. Men have for their night-rooms two vaulted cells. One of them, the Low Dungeon, is 10 steps under ground, 21 feet by 9, extremely close, dark, and unwholesome j very hot even in winter. Their other cell, the High , is larger, but

close and offensive, though not under ground.

I once saw three felons sick: the recorder, Mr. Fenton, gave immediate orders for their relief by better nourishment &c. and they soon recovered. No infirmary. Transports had not the king's allowance of a week. When prisoners

are convicted at Preston or Manchester, and from thence brought hither, the gaoler has a shilling a mile condu£t-money for each.

Part of the castle-yard is an enclosed bowling-green.

One of the rooms for debtors (60 feet by 27) is called the Quakers Room\ because, it is said, when those people were so cruelly persecuted in the last century, vast numbers of them were confined in it.

If the large stable which is not much used, and the great room under the shire-hall (in which I saw only one poor lunatic; who had been there many years, and is since dead) were converted into night-rooms for felons, one small room for each;

Over the judge's bench in the shire-hall is this text; “ Let judgment run

dnon a s twaters) and right ezufntfs as a mighty Jlr cam'

395

and an infirmary were built, this would be a good gaol. From Mr. Fenton's humanity, and the regard that is justly paid him,

1 cannot but hope for some of these improvements.

These remarks were made in 1776: at my last visit in 1779? I

had the pleasure to find fix cells made in the old stable, 10 feet

2 inches by 6 feet 8 inches, each having an aperture about 2 feet by 1 i; and two good rooms fitted up for an infirmary in one of the towers. The debtors rooms were white-washed, and casements put in their windows: the castle-yard lowered and paved, which being orr a defeent, may easily be kept clean. The act for preserving the health of prisoners, and the clauses against spirituous liquors, hung up very conspicuously.

The chaplain's salary, £5°, is from the county, and from the dutchy ^4.

I will give a copy of the table of fees, though it is not authentic j and of a paper in the shire-hall containing a list of donations, though imperfect, and not vouched by any authority.

Fees taken by the Gaoler of Lancaster Castle.

£. S. D.

For every debtor's discharge when by a sup - 080

On»common discharge it. and is. Sc 6d. for the sherifff's certificate o 10 6 When a debtor is surrendered in discharge of his bail - 024

When a debtor is charged with a declaration is. Sc 4 with the rule to take the prisoner to the bar and as. Sc d.with the rmandato - 048

When a debtor takes the benefit of the insolvent act and 21. Sc 4 to bring the prisoner to the bar by rule and 21. & 4 for the flicriff's certificate - 058

Fees for all crown prisoners - 0180

Lately altered to - 0134

John Dane Gaoler.

Charity Legacies to the Debtor Prisoners in Lancaster Castle

1770.

£. S. D.

From Mrs. Henrietta Rigby's executors to twelve of the most necefljtous and well behaved prisoners five shillings each paid by Do£lor Fenton and the mayor of Lancaster about the first day of March every year 300 From Mrs. Lar.gton paid by Lawrence Rawfthorn Esq. each assize 200 From Sir Thomas Gerrard of Gartswood paid by Mr. Starkie due about the first of August - 800

Paid

Lancaster Castle.

39*

Lancaster Castle.

Bridewells.

LANCASHIRE. Northern Circuit.

£. S. D.

Paid under a decree of the court of chancery of this county out of an estate in Skermifdale called Sand late belonging to Peter Latham deceased distributed at every August assize, by the trustees of the said Peter Latham or their order paid by Mr. Ratcliffe of Ormskirk attorney at law - 600

By the will of William Edmunston of Outhwaite one pound fifteen Shillings yearly or half the rent of land in Scotforth purchased by the money left for such purpose by the said will, paid by the treasurer of the county in bread - 1150

From Mrs. Abigail Rigby's executors paid by Doctor Fenton and the mayor of Lancaster every St. Thomas's day - 200

£Qry, Jebfon's legacy.] (So the paper.)

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Preston. This prison, a little distant from the town, was a friary. On the ground floor is a large room, in which are eleven closets, called boxes, to sleep in; and another room, the Dungeon. Over these are a large working-room for men, and a less for women. The prison out of repair: but at my last visit the rooms were clean, and the prisoners were spinning worsted. A court in front (the prisoners have no use it) and a liable j and a spacious garden backwards for the keeper.

Thcfc prisoners have the other moiety of William Edmunston's legacy mentioned in the lift at Lancaster castle. The keeper receives it for them. No water accessible to prisoners: no allowance. Keeper's salary, £60: but the new keeper is obliged to pay £50 to his predecessor. Fees, from those tried at sessions, ior. 6d.-tfrom others, 7 no table. To this prison in 1778, there were committed 112 prisoners,

For felony 14, bastardy 15, misdemeanours 46, vagrants 15, deserters 18, debtors 4.

1774, March 26, Prisoners 8. 1776, Sep. 16, Prisoners 11.

1775, Nov. 18, — 19. 1779, May 12, — 17.

Impressed Men 5.

Manchester. Rebuilt as per date, in the year 1774* Separate courts and apartments for men and women. Two rooms for an infirmary. The men have work-rooms, over which

are

Northern Circuit. LANCASHIRE. 397

are chambers. Their night-rooms or cells in a passage or BriDelong room 45 feet by 6, are close;j 1 feet by 8 j 11 steps w*lI“ below the court; but not properly under ground, being on the declivity of a hill. Women have three rooms on the ground floor, and three chambers: here is a dungeon, down9steps, 14 feet by 13;but women are not put there.

The iron-grate door into each court has fastenings of a contrivance singularly curious. No allowance. Keeper's salary lately raised from £25 to 60, in lieu of fees.

At my last visit the act for preserving the health of prisoners, and the clauses against spirituous liquors, hung up.

The keeper is a chandler, and employs the prisoners in spinning candle-wick at three-halfpence a pound. In the front of the prison is a stone with an aperture into a box, having this inscription j — “ Sick, in prison,

me not.* Matt. xxv. 43.

1774, Nov. 5, Prisoners 21. 1776, Sep. 15, Prisoners 12.

1775, Nov. 16, — 6. 1779, May 12, — 11.

Out of repair. Apartments close and dirty. Seven close dungeons 10 steps under ground;each 6~ feet by 5 feet9inches, and 6 feet high. Three prisoners arc locked up in each of them at night. There is another dungeon, larger, but not secure. No infirmary. The keeper told me in Nov. 1775, that after I was there last year and said his prisoners were in danger of the gaol fever, twenty-eight of them had been ill of it at one time. What led me to think so was, the offensiveness of the dungeons, and the number of prisoners. The prison is surrounded with other buildings, and cannot be made healthy and convenient. Allowance in common on Sunday, bread 4*. beef and broth about 6s. Firing from October to May. Gaoler, Rosendale Allen, sergeant at mace, paid the widow of the late gaoler, 20 a yearand put in

The Gentlemen of this Corpontion will please to accept my grateful acknowledgments for the honour done me in presenting me with the freedom of the town.

a deputy

Impressed Men 6.

Liverpool* Borough Gaol

3$6

Lancaster Castle.

___ Circuit,

~ — zr — zr - ht. zee.. uekrrs, felons &c.

lrz_: - zcr. — Tirizrr zed Friday:

__ — x — erzn liquors not

izr curie: the prisoners

jh -'it-inir-uir. zztzn.

i: — % ru gau vis much cleaner than at my

zzcan: z'zi: tie aci for preserving the zz z.: r. He unhealthy dungeons still czertclice, whefe salary is^io, hi zr rcre id the gaol fever in 1775, than: r- r.~ mz. Tzz gaoler now is Mr. Thomas

Dride-

W*LLS.

z. rerzrs 15. Drzrar2, Imp relied 2.

- X*: ;I BlIDtWELL.

^ ~ — " - - rc eminence adjoining

.*rr — arc 1 ne men and women have - czz Hz ^zr vinca Lire fix rooms n r-zr_ % r ~t't: ne men have four rooms: _v z Tziu ire 12: eet by ic; are furnished -z vz xv c*: V, hiving no , only

;: ic zv-z c ziies lb unt, and another;r.z- rzre a Inge iv: ri-n: r.y in which ~v_r: z_- _~r-z~. in the men's court is a ~ r zrzr r? rd rry cv/f and receive zz-t > z'a with a new and d izis a fiandard for a

zx -js»?«nent of it shew % smed.

long

Northern Circuit. LANCASHIRE.

399

long pole, at the extremity of which is fattened a chair. In this all the females (not the maat their entrance, after a few questions, are placed, with a flannel ftiift on, and undergo a thorough ducking, thrice repeated — an use of a bath, which I dare say the legislature never thought of, when in their late act they ordered baths with a view to and preserving

the health of prisoners; not for the exercise of a wanton and dangerous kind of severity. The women were employed in picking oakum. Allowance, two-pennyworth of bread a day. Keeper's salary, £30. Matron, £10.

1779, Nov. 30, Prisoners 8.

Warrington Town Bridewell.

Two rooms in the work-house yard;one about9feet square, with bedstead and ttraw;the other about9feet by 5: no windows. Allowance for diet, the same as the poor, who, by their appearance, fcem to have a humane attention paid to them. Keeper, no salary for the bridewell: no fees: is matter of the work-house.

Liverpool.

1776, March 20; 1779, Dec. 30:

No Prisoners.

CHESHIRE.

CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit,

Chester.

Remarks.

COUNTY GAOL, CHESTER CASTLE.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

j Faithful!Thomas; he holds it of the constable George Nojffiter the king's patentee, to whom he pays rent £40 a year.

£ 18: 5: o from the exchequer.

£5 each, and £1 for expenses.

Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors,? a p0un(j 0fbread a day each.

Felons, J

Garnish, Debtors, £0 13: 6. Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felons&c.

1774, March 29, 22, 24. 1775, Nov. 25, 11, 6.

June 24, 12. 1776, Sep. 14, 7> 12.

1775, Feb. 1, 9* 15. 1779, Aug. 27, i9> 4-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Bofiuel, now Rev. Mr.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary> £3°-

A debtor officiates as clerk, for which the

county allows £20. year.

SURGEON, Mr. #7/ liamfon.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

THIS cattle is the property of the King. The first room is a hall or chapel: there are two staircases leading up from it to four rooms for master's-side debtors. Down 18 steps is a small court, which was common to debtors and felons. It is lately divided, but the high close pales which separate the two courts, now so very small, deprive both debtors and felons of the benefit of fresh air. The former, in their free ward, the Pope's Kitchen; the latter, in their day-room, the King's Kitchen. Both these are 6 steps below the court: each of them about

35

Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE.

401

35 feet by 22. Near the former is the condemned room.* Chest* Under the king's kitchen is the king's j quite useless. Castle. Under the pope's kitchen is a dark room or passage 24 feet by 9: the defeent to it, is by 21 steps from the court. No window: not a breath of fresh air: only two apertures with grates in the ceiling into the pope's kitchen above. On one side of it are fix cells (Jlalls)each about 8 feet by 3, with a barrack bedstead, and an aperture over the door about 8 inches by 4.

In each of these are locked up at night, sometimes three or four felons. They pitch these dungeons two or three times a year: when I was in one of them, I ordered the door to be shut; and my situation brought to mind what I had heard of the black hole at Calcutta.

The felons day-room is not secure. They escaped in 1775* by breaking through the flight floor into the king's cellar below; and through the decayed '..alls of that they made their way down the hill. The keeper, who is careful and humane, was not blameable.

No infirmary. Transports had not the king's allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. Of the seven debtors whom I saw in 1776, five were imprisoned by exchequer writs.

The county has lately built two good rooms for the gaoler, and fitted up one room for a chapel.f

There is a singularity in the manner of the treatment of the prisoners who are released by capital punishment out of their dreadful cells, which merits “ mention. They arc delivered by the constable or his deputy, at a stone called Glover t-stone, about ninety yards distant from the outward gate, into the hands “ of the Ihcriffs of the city j who receive them at that stone, which is the extreme “ limit of the castle precincts, and from thence convey them to the place of exe-u cation, which they also have the charge of.”

4 I have in two of my visits seen the places of confinement for deserters in this castle, who are not under the care of the gaoler, but of the invalids of the garrison. They are bad unhealthy cells; often productive of the gaol fever. An officer at Worcester informed me, that having sent a serjeant and two men for two deserters lodged here, three of them died a few days after they came to their quarters, and he had them buried privately, without military honours, to the surpriss of the soldiers, who knew not the reason.

Pennant's Tour in Wales, p, 163.

402

CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

A TABLE OF FEES

Chester Castle.

To be taken by the Constable of the Castle — as the County Gaol-settled — in the — Quarter Sessions — at Namptwich — 15th July 1729 and afterwards confirmed — by his Majesty's Chief Justice of Chester and Judge of Assize — and Justices of the Peace — in pnrfoance of a late Act for the Relief of Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

Commitment fee, for every prisoner ©

Chamber rent, prisoner finding his own bedding ftr week o

Bedding ftr week if found by the constable - 0

Discharging fee - 0

To the turnkey on discharge - 0

For a copy of every commitment - 0

For attendance into court with every prisoner brought there by rule of court - 0

For the stone parlour, bed and furniture if required week - o For every felon committed far week - 0

8

1

1

1

0 z

1

5

o

o

o

o

6

o

o

o

6

Signed by eight Justices. Confirmed by J. Willis Sep. 13. 1729.

We whose names are subscribed his Majesty's Justices of the Peace do approve the above Table of Fees and the additional Fee of six pence per week. Witness onr hands April 7. 1730.

Signed by five Justices.*

A List — of all Gifts Legacies &c. upon the best Examination — given for the Benefit — of poor Prisoners — within — the Cattle of Chester.

Mr. John Norney — citizen and merchant-taylor of London — by his will — loth October 1615 left — six shillings and eight pence to be distributed on Candlemas yearly for ever by the mayor &c. — to the poor prisoners — in money or bread.

Valentine Broughton — of Chester alderman — by his will 16th June 1603 left-thirteen shillings and four pence to be distributed at Michaelmas and Lady-day yearly for ever by the mayor — to the prisoners in the caftie — by equal portions, or twenty days after.

The above written Table of Fees — and Lift — of Gifts — are tree Copies —

T'bo Yagg Cl. Pacis.

The table having hung against a damp wall, the justices names are not

Ic«ible.

403 Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE.

Rules to be observed within the Gaol of the Castle of Chester.

1st. All prisoners to behave — respectfully to keeper — whoever — strike or assault any — to be punished by a justice at discretion.

2. No curling or swearing — No gaining in the hall nor in private.

3. Prisoners to retire to their respective rooms — from Lady-day to Michaelmas at nine — from Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight — to be let out in morning — Lady-day to Michaelmas at fix — Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight.

4. Friends or relations — to bring necessaries, — being — searched for instruments if required — Not to stay long — without leave, except in — sickness — nor after the hours of locking up.

5. Felons Sec. — to be in the lower court — except leave &c.

6. Whereas it is usual for the prisoners to go into the castle-yard an hour morning and afternoon for air except in time of assize sessions &c. — None to go to the castle-gate or over the pavement leading &c. — nor out of the limits — nor intermix with the soldiers on guard.

7. No prisoner to remove — the keeper's beds Sec. — nor his own bed — without gaoler's consent.

8. Prisoners may bring their own beds, and take them away. If they choose the keeper's bed — pay a shilling at the end of every week. Upon non-payment the gaoler may take the bed, and put the prisoner to lie in the pope's kitchen or any other free ward.

9. The public hall to be swept and cleaned by the prisoners daily.

At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held at Namptwich — 14th July — 4th George II. 1730

We whose names are subscribed Justices of the Peace assembled in open Sessions aforesaid do approve of the said Rules to be observed in the gaol of the said caille of Chester.

Cha DukenfeUF Poole T Cholmondeley

Three more not legible.

We do approve of these rules

J Willes W Jessop.

Chester Castle.

CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

Bkidx-

W XU.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MIDDLEWICH.

This prison has been lately much improved by the addition of a work-room j a little room at the end of it, which they call a shop; and three chambers over them. At one side of the work-room is a strong brick bench against the wall, long enough for several to fit on: and fronting the fire-place is another brick feat, almost a semicircle. Two of the four lower rooms have now a window in each: the other have only three perforations in the doors of about two inches diameter. I found at my visit in 1776 all the prisoners, but two, employed in picking oakum \ the other two were shoemakers, working at their own trade: but at my last visit all were without employment. The court is enlarged from the keeper's garden, and flagged with broad stones, which are very convenient, not only for cleanliness &c. but particularly for drying the oakum. The partition between this and the garden, is a brick wall about one third of the height, and the rest strong palisades with tenter-hooks. This is a judicious contrivance for keeping the court and house airy and healthy. Allowance to each, six pounds of bread a week. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, £50. A chaplain lately appointed, Rev. Mr. Leigh: salary, /20: duty, three times a week.

1774, Nov. 8, Prisoners 3.

1776, Sep. 14, — 9.

1779. Aug. 28, — 5.

CHESTER

Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE.

405

CHESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Samuel Waterwoods. Chester.

Salary, £10.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 8: 8.

Felons, o: 6: 6.

Transports, 6: 10: o each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a penny loaf a day. (Little more than half a pound in Feb. 1775.)

Garnish, £0: 3: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c.

1774, March 29, 8, 10.

1775, Feb. *> 6, 2.

Nov. *5> 8, 2.

1776, Sep. 14, 1,

1779,Aug* 27> 7>

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Duke. (See Remarks.) Duty

Salary, £\o.

8URGEON, (See Remarks.)

Salary

THIS gaol, called the North-gate Prison has many con- Remarks. venieilt apartments for debtors. The felons day-room is spacious: but to their dungeon, or night-room (which is 14 feet by 8) the defeent is now by 18 steps: for at my last visit, I found that the room was very injudiciously,* (not to say cruelly) funk some feet. In it is a barrack bedstead. No light, nor any communication with the external air, but by two leaden pipes of about an inch diameter laid in from the gate-way.

The prisoners in March 1774, complained of excessive heat.

There seems to have been the same neglect here of a clause in a late that is noted in page 153; which would scarcely have happened, had the act been hung up as therein directed.

The

CHESHIRE

Chester Circuit.

in a room called Upper only an aperture in the door — aczes ~ air? cce or the debtors rooms. No bedding

_ _ O

rr frzrr i re crurt is cccmea to debtors and felons: but rr. ~-rer la-e ±e pri nce of walking in the keeper's

d-reictrs !: e up stairs, wz-ch has no window.

‘a*z > rraz-zai r: the bi_e-coat school; and officiates ir ~ aa. raapa to the school. Anavi-

r~"r rra: £--m me rr ire-yard} and a foot-bridge, r art rzs rriiaoers an opportunity of

-1 a~ i_~ ar tzsirr a s rerrrenved j that is, prayers v ~ — a: a «a-r: c X'Z i n-rzih. Few prisoners in

- — -a: — a f-an rrJrcerj were ill in bed of the: ar a.a rrr-zari; yet the surgeon had not,

i irtaw aanr ctzi rren razar, or sent his assistant. - a rr a > raid raaaziy by the corporation,

: i a. zszr-r: -. a zn ±e zz^-

.: . I: 11 j in RULES.

-- ia -a: — - a Iiaixscr, acd almost io words,

— - rrr;r ia in* aii_«r, I will not transcribe

r: ~r^ zr z u rurm

Fiii.

— r 3*

2^ ?i y.zssnt urtf rccmltted to

a- t ."xr./

~ ‘^s - I

£. S. D,

o 5 io

o 4

is il».t or x Biasnacur s i frernun o 4

- 0 4°

r-rurr -c - its. iriuner, *er wrtk - 050

004

. _ . 0 o t

-rr ;,i iwn ureuLt? - o I 0

.,j -t ta-g i ra kt irons and

-016 - 2 stt «t rr" tie exchequer at

,.k.: ?iKcsas«ca - o 8*8

*j - xr;itan ar=r=r ran -

Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE. 407

£. S. D.

If any person shall be arrested by form of a writ out of any of the courts

at Westminster and be brought to the said prison the keeper's fee 063 For attending the court with every prisoner - 010

For every felon committed per week - 000

For a copy of every commitment - 010

To the turnkey on discharge - 006

Chester City Bridewell.

There is now built a workshop and a room over it 25 feet by 16. Down 10 steps are two dungeons. No water: no allowance: clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, £4: 4: 0.

Here were several leaden weights marked '30, 40, 60 pounds, with a ring and chains to each: these are fattened, as the magistrates order, or the keeper finds needful, to the legs of refractory prisoners, fothat they cannot walk without carrying the weight. The keeper said that it was extremely difficult to make prisoners behave orderly, while they were kept together. x775, Feb. 1, Prisoners 2. 1776, Sep. 14, Prisoners 12.

— Nov. 25, — o. 1779, Aug. 27, — 1.

Macclesfield Prison.

This prison for the liberty of the hundred, manor, and forest of Macclesfield, in the pinfold or pound for that hundred, is the property of Lord Derby. It has four rooms j and a dungeon which is down 7 steps, 11 feet by 9. The windows of the rooms glazed, no casements. The building is flight, and the whole of it ruinous. Keeper, John Haslehurst, is a bailiff; keeps a public house; and has a lease of the whole for sixty years at £13 clear of taxes. No salary: fees, 7 j. 6d. no table.

1776, Sep. 15, Debtors 2.

Macclesfield Town Bridewell,

Is a ruinous room behind the keeper's house. Only one window 12 inches by 6. The keeper told me he was sometimes obliged to confine men and women together in it. Salary, twenty shillings;fees, one shilling.

1776, Sep. 15, No prisoners.

407

Chester City.

408 CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

Nantwich Prison, for Debtors.

This prison for the manor or barony of Wich-Malbank, otherwiseN antwich, is the property of the earl of Cholmondeley. It consists of two or three rooms in the keeper's public house. 1779, Aug. 28, Prisoners 2.

As the table of fees is of a late date, and so comprehensive, I here give the copy.

A Table of Fees, to be taken by Sheriffs, Under-Sheriffs, Bailiffs, or other Officers within the County of Chester, made, settled and allowed, at the General Quarter Sessions--held at the Castle of Chester, in and for the said County, the Fifteenth Day of April — 1777, and in the 17th — George III. before Sir Thomas Broughton, Baronet, George Heron, John Townshend, Charles Mainwaring, Samuel Barrow, Samuel Finney, and Henry Offley Wright, Esquires; Samuel Aldersey, Robert Hill, and John Baldwin, Clerks, Justices — in pursuance of an Act — made in the 3 2d year of George II.

To the Bailiff for every Arrest, as under.

CS.

For an arrest on an attachment for contempt

For a debt of 10l. and under 20l. -

For a debt of 20l. and under 30l. -

For a debt of 30l. and under 50l. -

For a debt of 5 of. and under So/. -

For a debt of So/, and under 100l. -

For a debt of 100l. and under 200l. -

For a debt of 200l. and under 500l. -

For a debt of 500l. and under 1000l. -

For a debt of 1000l. and upwards -

Travelling charges to make such arrest, in case the arrest be made (except on an attachment for contempt) each mile

o 10 o 10

0 15 X X

5

1 11

2 2

2 12

3 3 5 5

o o

D.

o

o

o

o

o

6

o

6

o

o

6

For attendance on arrest to be taken as follows (except on an attachment for contempt.)

Where the debt does not exceed tool, for each day 21. and each night 21. Where the debt does exceed 100l. and is not 200l. for each day 31. and each

night 31.

Where the debt does exceed tool, for each day 41. and each night 4*.

Nothing to be taken for attendance unless the defendant does not offer good bail in six hours, or is not discharged in that time.

Chister Circuit*. CHESHIRE.

4*9

For executing every writ of Ca: fa: Fi: ffa: Levari and writ

of possession, or other execution, besides fticriff's poundage x 1 o

Travelling charges as in case of arrest.

For conducing every prisoner to gaol, or so far as such prisoner shall be conduced, in his way to gaol, each mile - 010

House expences whilrt in custody before carrying to gadl (but not on the road) to be allowed after the rate of at. 6el. for every twenty-four hours, and so in proportion for a less time, all expences of prisoner* and bailiffs included.

For making every dirtiefs for rent, under 20l. - 050

For 20l. and under ico/. - 0 8

For above 100l. - . o JO 6

For attending goods under dirt refs, or taken into execution, for every twenty-four hours, until the sale is finished, one person - . 2 6

if two persons - 040

Travelling charges to make such distress, and house expences, as in case of arrest. No further or other allowance to be taken on account of bailiffs followers, but every bailiff to pay his own followers out of the above fees.

Nantwich.

And it is ordered by the said Court, that this Table of Fees be printed, and immediately dispersed throughout the said County, by the Clerk of the Peace thereof. And to the end that no ffieriff, under-sheriff, bailiff, or other officer or minilier, may plead ignorance of the law, they may hereby take notice, that none of them are to take any other or greater fee or reward than what is above set forth and allowed, upon the pains contained in the said Act.

By the Court.

Haulton Castle Gaol.

I should scarcely have mentioned this prison, since for a number of years pad no person has been confined in it, had I not found that in an inscription in the court-room, dated 1737, it is dill called a gaol with a court-yard.

The earl of Cholmondeley is proprietor under the crown; and quarterly courts are held here for the manor. Two cellars in the building appear to have been used for the purpose of confining prisoners.

1777, March 19, No Prisoners.

4>o

FLINTSHIRE. Chester Circuit.

Flint.

REMARKS.

COUNTY GAOL at FLINT.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

John Williams.

None.

Debtors, f

Felons, 0: 3: 6. the expense.

Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 7 each weekly is. 6 in bread, and

Felons, 5 6 d.money: now one pound of bread a day. (See Garnish, ,£0: 1: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons See.Debtors. Felons tec.

1774. June 25> 4> I-

1776, Sep. 13, 1, o.

1779, Aug. 27> 3-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Davies.

Duty, Wednesday and Friday.

Salary, j£20*

SURGEON, Mr. Inglcby at Holywell. Salary, none: he makes a bill.

THIS gaol is also a bridewell. On the ground floor are the gaoler's apartments. For debtors there are, up stairs, a common ward; and two other rooms. They have also a court, backwards. For felons and petty r, two dark closets, the

black holes, on the same floor as the debtors rooms: they are each 5 feet by 4; and were the only receptacles for criminals till a few years ago, when a dungeon in the yard was added, which is 16 feet by 11. This is down 8 steps. A court before it about 5 yards square: water laid in When men are here, women are put in the dark closets. The clauses again!! spirituous liquors are hung up. The debtors and felons of late not being satisfied with the kind allowance from the county of is. 6 d.in bread and 6 d.in money per week, the justices very

Chester Circuit. FLINTSHIRE.

properly ordered, for the present, only a pound of bread a day to each.

Great sessions at Mold: conveyance thither at the gaoler's expense. He has a salary of £ 25 as keeper of the bridewell.

About twenty years ago, here was a debtor who infilled upon not being subject to the gaoler, nor to any orders but such as should be enjoined by the magistrates. Upon this occasion, as I was informed, the justices at the quarter sessions held at Holy-well in July 1759, made some salutary rules for the government of this prison, which are hung up in the gaol.

TABLE OF FEES.

Flintshire, to wit.At the Court of Great Session held at Flint-on — 22d of August — 5th — of our Sovereign Lord George III. — 1765 before the Honble John Morton Esq. Chief Justice of — Chester, Flint, Denbigh, and Montgomery; and Taylor White Esq. his Majesty's other Justice there assigned &c. — It is — Ordered that the Gaoler for the time being do take no more than the Fees and Allowances hereafter mentioned which the Court conceive to be sufficient and reasonable

(That is to say)

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of this County.

£. S. D.

For the receipt of every prisoner for debt - 0

For the life of the bedstead and chamber by the week the prisoner finding his own bedding - 0

If the bedding found by gaoler per week then - o For a copy of every commitment - 0

Attending every prisoner brought by rule of court t - .0

Fee on prisoner's discharge - 0

Turnkey's fee on prisoner's discharge - 0

a

1

2

1 z

2 1

6

o

o

o

o

6

o

The above Table of Fees is ratified and confirmed by

John Morton.

Rules to be observed within the Gaol of Flint.

1. All prisoners to behave — respectfully to keeper — Whoever — strike or aflanlt any — to be punished by a justice at discretion.

2. No cursing or swearing — No gaming in the hall nor in private.

Flint County Gaol.

FLINTSHIRE. CnisteR Circuit.

41&

Flint County Gaol.

Bmdk-

wxtt.

3. Prisoners to Retire to their respective roomie — from Lady-day to Michaelmas at nine — from Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight — To be let out in the morning — from Lady-day to Michaelmas at fix — Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight.

4. Friends or relations — to bring necessaries, — being — searched for instruments if required — Not to Hay long — without leave, except in — sickness — nor after the hours of locking up.

5. The prisoners for felony and misdemeatiors shall keep in the opper ward — except leave to the contrary, and then not to intermix with the debtors.

6. No prisoner to remove — the keeper's beds &c. — nor his own bed — without gaoler's consent.

7. Prisoners may bring their own beds, and take them away. If they choose the keeper's bed — pay two shillings at the end of every week. Upon non-payment the gaoler may take the bed, and put the prisoner to lie in any other room as is ufoal for prisoners who cannot bring beds or pay chamber-rent.

8. That the public-rooms — be kept and made clean daily — by the prisoners.

9. That no prisoners shall have any offensive weapons — or inftra-ments-r-that may conduce to their escape.

At the General Quarter Sessions held at Holywell — izth July — 33d George II. 1759.

We whose Names are hereunto subscribed his Majesty's Justices of the Peace assembled in open Sessions aforesaid approve of the above Rules to be observed within the Gao! of Flint.

Roger MoJ!ynt John, David,

Thomas, Thomas Thomas. William Wynne, Clerk of the Peace.

ANOTHER

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at HANMER.

Two rooms in a ruinous thatched house. No court: no water: no employment: fees, 3*. 6d< no table. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary,;out of which he pays rent for the house.

1779, Aug. 29, No Prisoners.

DENBIGH.

Chester Circuit. DENBIGHSHIRE.

41!

COUNTY GAOL at RUTHIN.

GAOLER, Joseph

Salary, £10.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 6: 0.

Ruthin,

Felons, 0: 3: 6.

Transports, £1 each to Chester. Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, is. 6 d.a week.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 6.

Felons, 0: 1: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons See.Debtors. Felons&c,

1774, June 25, 8, 5. 1779, Aug. 26, 2, 2.

1776, Sep. 13, 2, I.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Pierce.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Nicholls.

Salary, now^i2.

[Remarks.]

THE old gaol was also a county bridewell. A new gaol is almost finished. The front is for the gaoler. Backwards, on the ground floorj a day-room or kitchen for debtors 27 feet by 15 j and another as large for criminals: and for the latter, four cells 7* feet by 6[-; two on each side of a passage only 3 feet wide. The cells are arched with brick, and lined with oak planks. A window in each 3 feet by 1, which was glazed; but being found too close, is now open. In both the debtors and felons day-rooms are 8 cupboards with separate locks and keys, that each may secure his provision. Above, are nine rooms for debtors, and a neat chapel. In each of the debtors rooms is an iron bedstead, two chairs, a table, and a fender. Separate courts for debtors and criminals } in each a pump, and a bathing-room, with a copper &c.

4H

Ruthin County Gaol.

DENBIGHSHIRE. Chester Circuit.

Gentlemen To considerate, will scarcely forget an infirmary, and separating women from men, as this is still a county bridewell. If a door-way was made between the windows of the felons day-room into their court, they might be more separated from the debtors.

Great sessions, of late, at Wrexham; and conveyance thither at the gaoler's expense. He has a salary of ^20 as keeper of bridewell. The clauses against spirituous liquors arc hung up.

TABLE OF FEES.

Denbighshire, to wit. At the General Quarter Sessions — at Denbigh — on the 16th day of April in the 5 th — of our Sovereign Lord George III. — 1765 before John Edwards Junr. and John Conway Esqrs. and others — Justices — if is — -ordered that the Gaoler for the time being do take no more than the Fees and Allowance hereafter mentioned which this Court conceive to be sufficient and reasonable

(That is to say)

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of this County.

£ S.

Fees on the receipt of every prisoner - 0

For the use of the bedstead and chamber week the prisoner finding his own bedding - 0

If bedding be found by the gaoler then per week - 0

For a copy of every commitment - 0

Attending every prisoner brought up by rule of court - 0

Fee on prisoner's discharge - 0

Turnkey's fee on prisoner's discharge - 0

a

1

a

1

1

a

1

6

o

o

o

o

6

o

The above Table of Fees is ratified and confirmed by

' By the Court

Jrfi. Hc/icrClerk of the Peace.

John Morton.

OTHER

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Wrexham. This is only part of an house, the whole of which seems to have been formerly the bridewell; but most of it is now the parish poor-house. The prison has — on the

ground

ground floor the keeper's rooms and stable; and for prisoners, two dark offensive rooms, without any window: a wall within 6 feet of the doors: prisoners have, with just cause, complained of being almost suffocated; and begged to be let out for air into the keeper's garden, on the other side of the house. — Up stairs are three rooms for those who can pay. All dirty and out of repair. No pump. Keeper a sheriff's officer: salary, £8.

1774, March 30, Prisoners 2.

1776, Sep. 12, — 1.

1779, July 26, — 2.

Denbigh. A ruinous house. No court: no water: no sewer. — And under the town-hall, the Black , 24 feet by

10, is used as a prison. — Keeper's salary, £6;out of which he pays to the parish £3 rent for the house.

1779, Aug. 26, No Prisoners; 1 distracted man, 2 paupers.

MONTGOMERYSHIRE. COUNTY GAOL at MONTGOMERY.

GAOLER, William Davies.

Salary, £12: 12: 0 from the sheriff.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 8: 0.

Felons, 0: 14: 4.

Transports, about £10: 10: 0 each.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, on application, the same as Felons.

Felons, two 14 loaves a week.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons Sec.Debtors. Felons&c.

1774, June 29, 3, 4. 1779, May 4> 3-

1775, Nov. 29, 2, o. Impressed Man 1.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Powell. Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEONS, two, in quarterly rotation.

Salary, £7: 10: 0 each.

Bridewells.

Mon t 60-

Mte Y,

ie

ANGLESEY. North Wales Circuit*

Rimaiki.

Anglesey.

MONTGOMERY.

THIS gaol is finely situated on a rising ground. Here are eight rooms for debtors, and two cells 8 feet by 7, and a condemned cell for felons;all clean. No day-room. Court common. The fine dream of water running through the court is turned off. A large brew-house is built for the gaoler. There might be a room over it much more convenient for a chapel than that now used. Great sections always at Welsh Pool; whither prisoners are conveyed at the gaoler's expense.

The table of fees not legible.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MONTGOMERY.

Two rooms in the keeper's house, and down eight steps a dungeon, with flocks: out of repair: not secure. No materials for work. Keeper's salary, £13: 13: 4: no fees. No allowance.

IT]Si Nov. 29, Prisoner 0.

1779, May 16, — 1.

NORTH WALES CIRCUIT.

ANGLESEY. COUNTY GAOL at BEAUMARIS.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

William Thomas, now John

£$ from the sheriff.

Debtors,

Felons,

o.

Transports, the expense.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a shilling loaf a week, and one pound of butter.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1774, June 27, 2, 0. 1779, July 24, 4, 1.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

THIS

North Wales Circuit. CARNARVONSHIRE. 417

BEAUMARIS.

[Remarks.]

THIS gaol is also the county bridewell. There are five rooms for debtors, and two for felons. A court, but no water.

Another court adjoins, in which formerly was the house of correction. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

The gaoler has £5 a year as keeper of bridewell. No table of fees.

CARNARVONSHIRE. COUNTY GAOL at CARNARVON.

GAOLER, Thomas Prichard.

Salary, £5 from the sheriff.

Fees, Debtors, £0 1 3: 6 entrance.

0: 2: 6 discharge,

Felons, none.

Transports, the expen fe.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, 2 s.4 d.a week each. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, a shilling.

Number, Debtors, Felons &c.Debtors. Felons&c.

1774, June 27, 2, 1. 1779, July 24, 5, 1.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

THIS gaol, which is also the bridewell, in a ruinous Remarks. condition. Two rooms for debtors, and two for felons: one of the latter down 11 steps, with an aperture 18 inches by 3; the other under the stairs only9feet by 7, with no window: both dirty and offensive. Joining to the gaol is a large room* formerly a house of correction, but now used only by strolling players. Court not secure: no water: no sewer. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Great sessions at

4*8

Carnarvon,

Dolgelly.

Remarks,

MERIONETHSHIRE. North Wales Circuit.

Conway. The Gaoler has £5 a year as keeper of bridewell. He flops from each felon's allowance six pence a week for, what he calls, his trouble of weekly payments. No table of fees.

MERIONETHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at DOLGELLY.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

Rice Edwards.

the expense.

Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, *5 now 31. a week for each, paid to the Felons, 5 gaoler.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors, Felons

1774. June 28, 1, 1. 1779, Aug. 25, 3, 2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. John

Duty, twice a week.

Salary, £10.

SURGEON, Mr. Owen.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

THIS gaol was repaired about twelve years ago. It con-fists of five rooms on the first floor, and four rooms over them. The windows were all close glazed, but now have casements. The court not secure: no water. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up. No table of fees. Great Sessions in Lent at Bala.

Carmarthen Circuit. CARDIGANSHIRE.

419

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Dolgelly. Two rooms under the town-hall. No court: no water. Keeper, the county gaoler. Salary,

1779, Aug. 25, No Prisoners.

Bala. Two rooms adjoining to the town-hall, 11 feet square. Allowance, three shillings a week for each, paid to the keeper. No court: no water. Keeper's salary,

1779, Aug. 26, No Prisoners.

CARMARTHEN CIRCUIT.

CARDIGANSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at CARDIGAN.

GAOLER, Charles Thomas.

Salary, formerly £12, but not fixed.

Transports, the expen fe.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two shillings a week.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1774. Aug. 13, 4, o. 1779, June 4,2, o.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Davies, now Rev. Mr.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £16.

SURGEON, Mr. Davies.

Salary, £10.

THIS gaol, which is also the bridewell, was just (inished when I was first there. Too (light a building. The rooms are lows and close glazed: no casements: a dungeon down 11 steps: all very dirty, and abounds with vermin, as is often the case where there is no water. C. Thomas has 2 a year as bridewell keeper. No table of fees.

Eez PEMBROKE-

Briok-

WELLS.

Car pi-cam.

Remarks.

HAVERFORDWEST.

COUNTY GAOL at HAVERFORDWEST.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees*

Richard

none.

Debtors,

Felons,

13

4-

Transports Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance,' Debtors, certified from}

their parish, > a penny a day. Felons, )

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons&c.

1774, Aug. 14, 4, 1. 1779, June 5, 1, 2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Jones, now Rev. Mr.

Duty, Wednesday and Friday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Davies.

Salary, £20.

Remarks. THIS gaol is also the bridewell. Six rooms. The two lowest are very damp dungeons: in one of these, as I was informed, a prisoner loft, first the use of his limbs, and then his life: since that time, none have been confined in either of them. The upper rooms were dirty and offensive, with small windows. No sewers: no court: clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. No table of fees." R. Griffith has /8 a year as bridewell keeper. At my last visit, the gaol was clean and white-washed. An act is pasted for building a new gaol; which, I am informed, is to be where the old castle now stands.

At Haverfordwest is also the Town and County Gaol; which is likewise the bridewell. Two rooms below, one for debtors, the other for felons;the latter has no windows. The bridewell, a room above. No court: no water. Gaoler, R. Griffith the county gaoler. No salary.

1774, Aug. 14, No Prisoners.

1779. June 5, One Debtor.

Pembroke

Carmarthen Circuit. CARMARTHENSHIRE. 421

Pembroke Town Gaol.

Two rooms j no court, no water, no sewer. ( French Prisoners, page 158.)

CARMARTHENSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, CARMARTHEN CASTLE.

GAOLER, John

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 13: 4.

Felons, 0: 3: 4.

Transports, £$ each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a shilling a week.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c.

1774, Aug. 15, 16, 10.

1776, Sep. 8, 4, 7. (See Remarks.)

1779, June 4, 14, 8.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Davies*

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £12: 12: o.

SURGEON, Mr. Price* Salary,

Car mar. THEN.

THIS gaol is also the county bridewell. Both the old Rimaeks. and new cells for criminals are too close, about 7 feet by 6: apertures in the doors only9inches square: earth floors.

The day-room is used as a chapel. Over it is a free ward: and over that a room for the sick. The condemned dungeon is damp j a small window. One court-yard j but it is spacious.

A house for the gaoler, lately built in the court; but he (till lives distant, as before. It has convenient rooms for master's-

422 Carmarthen Castle.

CARMARTHENSHIRE. Carmarthen Circuit^

side debtors; and an alarm-bell at top: by ringing it, a debtor lately prevented an escape of the felons. No water: the well is useless; and the gaol offensive. Water might be laid in from a conduit at a little distance. Transports had not the king's allowance of 2 s.6 d.a week. Clauses of the ad against spirituous liquors not hung up. No table of fees. J. Williams has ^12: 12: o a year as keeper of bridewell. To this prison there are rules or bounds, which extend near a mile round.

Two of the offenders, whom I saw in 1776, were for fines which they could not pay. They had not the county allowance, and were almost starved.

The gaoler was desirous of farming the allowance: but the abuse of such a trust by the gaoler at Brecon had been detected; and the request of this gaoler was not granted.

At two of my visits, here were a number of idle and profane people playing at tennis.*

At Carmarthen is also the County-Borough-Gaol.

To the four rooms of this gaol at the gate, you afeend by stone Heps on the outlidc. No court: no water. Keeper, one of the town sheriffs, lives distant. At my first visit, a young creature committed for a petty theft had been there four months, and was sick on the floor. At another visit, a debtor sick in bed. Bcfldcs the four prisoners whom I saw, the sheriff told me he had one in the rules, which are of finall extent. Food &c. for the prisoners is put through an aperture at bottom of the door: a little girl, the daughter of a prisoner, could just get through it to fetch water &c. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. — At my last visit, very dirty, and full of vermin.

1774, Aug. 15, Debtors o. Felon &c. 1.

1776. Sep. 8,-3. — 1.

1779, June 4, — o. — 1.

See pages 17 and 31.

South Wales Circuit. RADNORSHIRE. 423

COUNTY GAOL at PRESTEIGN.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on application.

Felons, a three-penny loaf for two days.

Garnish, £o: i: o.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons ic.

1774, June 30, 4, 3. 1779, May 17, 2, 2.

1775, Nov. 30, 3, 1.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

John Thomas.

£10 from the sheriff; now ^5: 5: o.

the treasurer has £5 each.

Beer.

THIS gaol is the county bridewell. Out of repair: the Remarks. walls propped up. Only one court. Felons night-rooms down 3 Heps, and not secure: earth floor; no straw. Keeper's house distant; but his garden, contiguous, is a proper spot on which to enlarge the gaol. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up: no table of fees. J. Thomas has 2 a year as bridewell keeper.

BRECONSHIRE. South Wales Circuit.

Brecon,

Remarks.

COUNTY GAOL at BRECON.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Tran sports, Licence,

Magdalen TPllliams.

none: but £31: 10: 0 a year to supply felons with necessary food.

Debtors, ? /.,

Felons, S 7

£5 each.

Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on applying to justices.

Felons, farmed as above.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felons&c.

1774, Aug. 11, 7, 3.

1776, Sep. 9, 4, 1.

1779, June 3, 3, 3.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Hugh.Duty, Wednesday or Friday.

Salary, £10.

SURGEON, Mr. Wiliams. Salary, £5.

THIS gaol is out of repair. Two courts common to debtors and felons: they also lodge together. Some of the rooms dole glazed. A dark dungeon: the door of it repairing; yet the gaoler's son told me it was never used. At my first visit the prisoners almost starved by the gaoler. Two gentlemen of the county, who were then in the gaol with me, seemed to resent the abuse. — No draw. — No clauses of act against: spirituous liquors: no table of fees. Transports had not the king's allowance of is. 6 a week.

At my last visit, a new gaol and bridewell was building out of the town, near the river. The situation is too low, so that sometimes it may be exposed to floods.

425

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BRECON,

In 1779, discontinued, and the prisoners sent to the county gaol.

Brecon Town Gaol,

1 w

Over the gate-way. Out of repair: no court: no water. Sergeant at mace is keeper: he fells beer.

1776, Sep. 9,7 No prisoners-1779, June 3,3

GLAMORGANSHIRE. COUNTY GAOL at CARDIFF.

J

GAOLER, Thomas Lewis,now

Salary, none: but he farms the allowance. See Remarks,

Fees, Debtors,: 14: 4.

Felons, 0: 7: 8./

Transports, £5 each.

Licence, of late none.

PRISONERS

Allowance,

Garnish,

Debtors, none but on application to the justices. Felons, ten pence halfpenny each on Saturday. £0 .: 2: 6. ‘

Cardiff,

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors, Felons&c«

1774, Aug. 19, 14, 2. 1779, June 8, 3, o.

1776, Sep. 6, 2, 2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr.

Duty, Sunday and Wednesday.n

Salary, £30.

SURGEON, Mr. Williams. Salary, 10, now ^30.

GLAMORGANSHIRE. South Wales Circuit.

Remarks.

CARDIFF.

THE new gaol, not finished, is to consist of three separate houses, with courts between them. The old gaol to be taken down; and in front (where it now stands) is to be the house for debtors: a court behind it — Then the gaoler's house: this is built j two rooms on a floor. Behind it, the felons court; and beyond that, their house or wards; which are also built: on the ground floor, a small room for the turnkey; and three vaulted rooms: above them three chambers, I2y feet by 10.

The gaoler's house being in the middle, he will have both debtors and felons in view: but his passing to the street through the debtors house, may be dangerous to him when they prove riotous. — He undertakes for ^40 a year to pay felons ten pence halfpenny a week, and a shilling a week to such debtors as the justices shall appoint.* — Great sessions always at Cowbridge. — Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

In not one of the gaols in the four Wclch circuits was the act for preserving the health of prisoners hung up.

At my last visit I found a table of fees hung up, but signed only by the justices.

Glamorganshire. A Table of Fees and Chamber. Rent to be taken by the Gaoler and also the Rates he shall impose on each Prisoner that makes use of the Gaoler's Bed and Bedding, and Directions for his Government of the Prison and Prisoners in his Custody, made in pursuance of the Statute in that case made and provided.

£. S. D.

To the gaoler or turnkey at the receiving each prisoner into his custody,

and which shall be paid by such prisoner before he is discharged 010 To the gaoler upon the discharge of each prisoner - 068

For the lodging of each prisoner in either of the fore-street chambers (the largest of tohich shall contain no more than three beds and the other two beds) such prisoner finding his own bedding and bed cloathes each night, seven farthings - o o: j

For the lodging of each prisoner in either of the fore-street chambers when the gaoler finds such prisoner with a sufficient featherbed, bolder and bed cloathes, three pence half-penny fernight - 0 o 31

The late gaoler informed me, that an debtor confined ten years for seven pounds, died in the gaol just before I was there.

£ s- d.

For the lodging of each prisoner in either of such fore-street rooms at the gaoler's finding a flock bed, dust bed, or other coarse ordinary bed and bed cloathes, two pence halfpenny per night - 0 For the lodging of each prisoner in any or either of the other chambers or rooms in the gaol, when the gaoler finds such prisoner with a sufficient feather bed, bolster and bed cloathes, two pence per night o For a flock, dust, or other ordinary bed and bedding, one penny night o

That all the prisoners in his custody shall be at liberty to fend oat of the gaol for what victuals and drink they think fit,; and

that the gaoler for the time being shall not by compulsion or otherwise oblige any prisoner in his custody to buy any meat or drink of him, but if the prisoners or any or either of them shall out of choice deal with such gaoler for their provision or other thing, that then such gaoler shall supply such prisoners with sufficient provisions and drink at reasonable rates.

That if any difference should happen to arise between the gaoler and prisoners with regard to the goodness of the beds or bed cloathes or the goodness and price of the provisions the gaoler shall find such prisoners with, that then such difference shall be fabmitted to the arbitration of the treasurer of the said county for the time being, who is hereby desired, and as far as we can, empowered, to settle and adjust such differences and give such relief therein as shall be reasonable and just to the party grieved, and if it shall happen that either party shall think himself aggrieved by such adjustment, he may appeal from such order or determination as such treasurer shall make in the matter to the next General Quarter Sessions of the Peace to be holden for the said county.

In order to enforce the prisoners in the said gaol to pay duly and regularly for such chambers as they shall take, or such beds, bed cloathes, meat and drink as such gaoler shall find them with at the prices and in manner aforesaid, We do hereby give the gaoler, upon their neglect and refusal of payment for one whole month together, liberty to turn them out of their said rooms and chambers into the common rooms, until such time that they shall have fully and paid what shall be so due from them to the said gaoler.

Casdiff

County o a*. Caoi“

o % o s

Micl1.Richards, Wm. Morgan, Roger Po-ivell,

Michaelmas Quarter Sessions, 1739. A Copy.

COUNTY

GLAMORGANSHIRE. South Wales Circuit.

Bridewell.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COWBRIDGE.

Besides the old room, there are two rooms lately built in the back court; each 15 feet square. In them provision is made for the circulation of air; for besides the window, there are 5 apertures of about a foot diameter in each room; and there is now little danger of the gaol fever; of which the keeper told me, at my first visit, many had died: a man and woman about a year before; when himself and his daughter were alfoill of it. No water: court not secure. No allowance. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, 25;12: 0.

Two rooms arched with brick, under the town-hall. No court: no sewer: no water.

1774, Aug. 19, 1776, Sep. 6,

1779, June 7>

Prisoners 0.

0.

2.

Cardiff Town Gaol.

1779, June 8, Debtor 1.

Swansey Town Gaol.

One room in the castle for debtors: and a dark room for felons &c. under the town-hall.

1779, June 7, No prisoners.

HULKS

HULKS.

429

HULKS on the THAMES.

In my former edition, page 75, I ventured to pass some censures on the management of convicts committed to hard labour on the Thames; and in a subsequent visit I was still more convinced of the faults I had observed. The effects of these became so alarming, as to attract the notice of parliament. A public inquiry was instituted, by which it appeared, that from August 1776, when the convicts were first put on board the Justitia, to March 26, 1778, out of six hundred and thirty-two prisoners who had been received, one hundred and seventy-six had died. — It is with pleasure that I can now give an account, which will shew in a striking light the beneficial effects of this Parliamentary Inquiry, and the obligations the public are under to the committee appointed on this occasion, and particularly to its chairman, Sir Charles Bunbury. -At my last visit, Nov. 16, 1779, there were at Woolwich, for the reception of convicts, an old India-man, called the Justitia; and a frigate, the Censor. In the former were two hundred and fifty-six; and in the latter, two hundred and fifty. That which was first called the Justitia, is now converted into an hospital ftiip, in which were twenty patients. — Another, called the Reception, was empty: in this, convicts are examined by the surgeon, and continue four days, before they are sent either to the hulks, or to the hospital ship.*

The prisoners on board the Justitia looked healthy and well; the decks were clean. They had bedding; their provisions were good of the fort; and there were not any (as at my former visits) without shoes and stockings. — I found the Censor, below deck, cleaner than the Justitia; yet, on carefully viewing the convicts, they had not so healthy and contented an

By the late act 19th Geo. III. Cap. LXXIV. p. 1418.

afpe&

Hulks.

430

Hulks.

Gaol

Flyer.

HULKS tic.

afpe& as those in the other; and a much greater proportion of this ship's company was sent to the hospital. This created in me a suspicion that something was wrong. I examined all their provisions, bedding &c. and found that they were the same as on board the Justitia. It would be highly proper that a table of their stated allowance should be hung up, and feales, weights, and measures assigned them,* to check the purfers who give out their provision.f — In the hospital ship, on the two decks (one of which is for recovering patients) were twenty-five cradles with beds similar to those in the royal hof-pitals at Hafiar and Plymouth, where all lie single. Of the few who were very sick, I found their irons were off. The cleanliness and quietness of the hospital do honour to the conductor. It is to be wished that the patients had better nourishment, as that in many cases would be more salutary than medical prescriptions.

There were about one hundred and fifty at work in the warren \ most of them clothed in a brown uniform.

The situation of these unhappy people is greatly altered for the better. Yet their bread allowance should be half a pound more; for one pound a day is too little, especially for those who work, although they have an extra allowance of beer. There should also be to each bed, in winter, an additional blanket.

REMARKS on the GAOL FEVER.

I shall take the liberty here to subjoin a few additional remarks on the gaol fever; in which, if I shall appear to have invaded the province of the gentlemen of the faculty, I hope to be pardoned, from the consideration that my experience in this matter may in some respect supply my want of other means of knowledge.

See a good regulation for the prisoners of war. Article IX.

f Pursers weights are known on board ships to be two ounces in a pound /hort, their measures in proportion,

431

GAOL FEVER.

If it were asked, what is the cause of the gaol fever ? it would in general be readily replied, “ the want of fresh air and cleanliness.” But as I have found in a few prisons abroad, cells and dungeons as offensive and dirty as any I have observed in this country, where, however, this distemper was unknown, I am obliged to look out for some additional cause for its production. I am of opinion, that the sudden change of diet and lodging so affc&s the spirits of new convicts, that the general causes of putrid fevers exert an immediate effect upon them. Hence it is common to fee them sicken and die in a short time, with very little apparent illness. Convicts are generally stout robust young men, who have been accustomed to free diet, tolerable lodgings, and vigorous exercise. These are ironed, and thrust into close offensive dungeons, some of them without straw or other bedding;in which they continue, in winter, sixteen or eighteen hours out of the twenty-four, in utter inactivity, and immersed in the noxious effluvia of their own bodies. On this account, the gaol distemper is always observed to reign more in our prisons during winter than summer; contrary, I presume, to the nature of other putrid diseases. Their diet is at the same time low and scanty; they are generally- without firing; and the powers of life soon become incapable of refilling so many causes of sickness and despair.*

I have been frequently afleed what precautions I use, to preserve myself from infection in the prisons and hospitals which 1 visit. I here answer, that next to the free gadness and mercy of the Author of my being, temperance and

cleanliness are my preservatives. Trusting in Divine Providence, and believing myself in the way of my duty, I visit the most noxious cells; and while thus employed, “ I fear no evil." — I never enter a prison or hospital before breakfast, and in an offensive room I seldom draw my breath deeply,

Gaol Fever,

CONCLUSION.

43*

HAVING thus, according to my ability, completed the design I had engaged in, it was my intention immediately to have retired to the tranquil enjoyment of that easy competence a kind Providence has bestowed upon me: — happy in the reflection, that I had been, in some degree, an instrument in alleviating the sufferings of a numerous and unhappy set of people; and of exciting the attention of my countrymen to an important object of civil policy. Nor can I rvrcvur expressing the additional satisfaction I have felt in rvdvCrrg, that I have avoided giving any possible occasion to injure what I had done to self-intercitei views; for, as nothing, >uc a f.m persuasion that it was my duty, could have enabled ‘r*t to -o through all the disagreeable seenes which lay before: c I had the happiness of being placed out of the reach of.ether incitements.

h' re: eIu: ;ons, however, were broken in upon by the urgent v u: on> of some, who were pleased to think me a proper*it tv xiiil in superintending one of those great and useful i> I had recommended to the notice of the public: and I^> ix-.cvd more readily to comply with their solicitations, i vv h-erce that those who were to be associated with me h-v tv ..av general ideas with myself respecting the execution -v r wvivi plan, and would co-operate in it with zeal

ov.: row to be tried, how far the wife and humane

-cu> c» the legislature can be accomplished in this country; v. 't'.ic 4 c cm be made of those lights, which it was the

O 7

- ;*v- ;.v.w ot my foreign journeys to collet.

TABLES.

433

TABLES.

TABLE I.

Regulations for Prisoners of War in England.

De par les Commissaires pour le Soin des Malades & des Blesses de la Marine, et pour l'Echange des Prisonniers de Guerre.

Reg les questous les Prisonniers de Guerre, dans la Grande Bretagne, et l'lrlande, doivent observer.

I. T ES ordres donnes par 1'Agent, aiant foin des prisonniers, doivent etre^observes fans replique ou dispute. Qu'aucun des prisonniers ofe insulter, menacer, maltraiter, Sc encore moins frapper le guichetier, ni personne par l'Agent employe aux affaires de la prison, sous peine de la punition qu'ordonne-ront Messieurs les Commissaires, et de perdre leur tour d'etre echangesj detre etroitement enfermes, et prives de la moitie de leur vivres.

II. Tous les prisonniers, lors que 1'agent en fera la revue, repondront a leurs noms; et fi dans la liste donnee a 1'agent quelque erreur fe trouve, ils l'indique-ront, afin de la corriger j et ainsi prevoir la confusion qui resulteroit des meprises des noms.

III. Tous les prisonniers refufants de repondre a leurs noms a la revue, feront punls par la privation de leurs vivres, jufqu' a ce qu'ils s'y foumettent.

IV. S'il arrive du dommage aux lieu oii les prisonniers feront gardes, foil cn voulant s'cchapper, ou autrement, de propos delibere; les frais de la reparation feront payes des vivres de ceux qui auront ainsi contrevenu;et fi les coupables fie peuvent etre decouverts, tous les prisonniers ensemble contribueront de leurs vivres, aux frais de cette reparation.

V. Quiconque s'echappcra de prison, ctnnt repris, y-fera mis au cachotj et n'y aura que demi-ration de vivres, jufqu' a ce qu'il aura ainsi paye les frais faits pour le saisir et le ramener j et de plus il perdra son tour d'echange; un officier ainsi contrevenant, fera des-lors regarde et traite comme simple matclot.

VI. 11 efVcsfendu de fe battre, fe qucreller, ou faire defordre dans les prisons, ou aux endroits ou il fera permis aux prisonniers de prendre l'air, sous peine ale punition felon que 1‘offence l'exigera.

VII. Les prisons feront tenues nettes & propres par les matclots, et cela tour a tour, comme 1'agent l'ordonncra} & tout matelot qui refusera ce service a son

434 TABLES

tour, & qui en aura etc avert!, fera prive de fes vivres jusque' a ce qu'il s'y foumette.

VIII. Les prisonniers doivent informer 1'agent, des hardes, ou autres chose* dont ils peuvent avoir besoin, et pour lesquels ils auront dequoi payer; et l'agent a ordre non feulement de permettre qu'ils enfoient fournis, mais aussi d'avoir un foin tout particuiier, qu'on ne leur en impose dans les prix.

IX. Dans chaque prison les prisonniers pourront nommer trois, ou cing d'entre eux, et les changer quand il leur plaira, pour rexamen des vivres; afin de voir s'ils font bons, & s'ils ont leur ration, soit' pour le poids, soit pour la mesure; suivant la table d'avituailiement ci-deflous. Et s'il fe trouve quelque sujet de plainte, soit fur la maniere de les appreter, servir, ou dans quelqu'autre chose j ils doivent, avec bienfeance, le faire savoir a 1'agent j qui, trouvant la plainte fondee, doit immediatement y mettre ordre. S'il le neglige, ils doivent en avertir Metfieurs les Commissaires, qui ne manqueront pas de leur rendre justice, a tous egards.

X. Les boutiquiers (exceptc ceux qui trafiquent dans des choses qu'il ne convicnt pas de vendre a des prisonniers) feront permis de rester a la grande porte, depuis dix heures du matin jufqu' a trois heures de l'apres midi, pour vendre leur merchandises, a tels prisonniers, qui font en fonds pour les payer fur le champ.

XI. Celui d'entre les prisonniers qui ofera par ce moyen procurer des liqueurs, ou autre choses &ca. qui ne conviennnent pas a un prisonnier d'avoir, ou qui recevra, ou livrera aucune lettre, fera puni de l'abus qu'il aura salt de cette indulgence.

TABLE D'AVITUAILLEMENT.

Jours. Bierre. Pain. Boeuf. Beurre. Fromage. Pois.* Sel.

Quartes. Livres# Livres, Onces. Onces. Pintcs. Onces.

Dimanche z 3 i I

"4 a y

Lundi 1 4 3 T - T T

Mardi i 11 3 X f

4 a T

Mecredi z 4 3 4 - i T

Jeudi 1 4 3 4 - i a i T

Vendredi z 4 1 - i T

Samedi I 4 ou 6 X Y i T

Total 7 i°I- 1 i 4 6 % 2j

Ou un livre de bon chou chacun.

The allowance of salt, and the note to pease, I saw once only, In a table that seemed newly printed off.

TABLE

435

tables.

TABLE II.

A List of Fees due to the Clerks of Assize of the several Circuits in England, and their Offices, from Prisoners charged with Felony — Burnt in the Hand — Whipped — Acquitted — Discharged by Proclamation — or against whom Bills are returned by the Grand Jury not true Bills.

£. S. D.

HOME CIRCUIT,

Burnt in the hand - . O 4 8

Whipped - O 4 8

Acquitted - O 8 4

Discharged by proclamation O 8 4

According every ignoramus in felony O 6 4

NORFOLK. CIRCUIT,

Acquitted and Order of Delivery in Murder — 1 8 0

The like in all other Felons — 1 1 4

Order on Delivery on Proclamation — 0 15 8

Ditto on Ignoramus Bill — 0 13 4

MIDLAND CIRCUIT,

---

Acquitted and Discharge Fee in Murder — 1 7 8

The like in other Felons — 1 6 8

Discharge Fee according — 1 0 0

Discharge Fee or Proclamation — 0 13 4

---

OXFORD CIRCUIT, For every prisoner acquitted of felony on one indictment discharged 0 17 4

For every acquittal after the first - 0 8 8

For every prisoner discharged by proclamation - 0 9 0

Cuilty burnt in the hand or whipped and discharged - 0 >4 0

WESTERN CIRCUIT,

Acquitted including plea and discharge - X JO 8

Ignoramus 131.4 d.and discharge 13*. 4 - I 6 8

Discharge by proclamation - 0 *3 4

Conviction in man-daughter - 0 *7 4

NORTHERN CIRCUIT,

Not guilty discharged - I 5 4

Discharged by proclamation - 0 14 8

Ff a TABLE

TABLES,

436

TABLE III.

Abstract of Sir Stephen Theodore Janssen's Table of Criminals Condemnedj Execu; and,at the

Old Bailey, London, from the Year 1749 to 1771, inclusive.

Condemned. Executed. Pardoned &c.

Peace 1749 61 44 >7

175° 84 56 28

,7SI 8S 63 ' 22

1752 52 47 5

175 3 57 4* 16

1754 5° 34 16

1755 39 21 18

428 306 — 122

& f 1756 3° 13 *7

tf'ar J

War 1757 37 26 11

1758 32 20 12

1759 >5 6 9

1760 14 10 4

1761 22 >7 5

1762 25 15 10

Wdr }

^ c *763 61 32 29

/W J 236 >39 -T“ 97

Peace 1764 52 3> 21

1765 41 26 >5

1766 39 20 >9

1767 49 22 27

00 VO 54 27 27

1769 7i 24 47

177° 91 49 42

177* 60 34 26

457 233 224

1121 678 443

The

TABLES.

437

The respective

3 a K g M O

Murdei § S* 0* 3 3 d5‘ =r 0 A S; Forgery, Coining. |S fl ciq a Defraudir Creditori X O ± S- ? n 3# Total,

' 5* w 5* 3 ? 3 09 3 2 2 2

Sentenced to Death 81 208 362 90 95 II 31 3 240 1121

Executed 72 Il8 251 22 71 IO 22 3 109 678

Pardoned, Transported,or died in Gaol b 90 III 68 24 1 9 0 131 443

Of 120 Sessions in the 15 Years of Peace (8 in a Year) only one was Maiden;in 1749. Of the 64 Sessions in the 8 Years of War, nine were Maiden.

Sir Stephen intending a list only of those who were condemned to die, has not in his table a column for transport convidb. But at the bottom of the street he notes that there were

Transported for seven or fourteen years - 5199

To which number he adds

Transported by the king'smercy after receiving? sentence of death - 5

Total Transports 5600

The second number of transports 401 is, doubtless, part of the number 443, the last of the three totals above.

Ff3

TABLE

43®

TABLE*

TABLE IV.

Number of Convicts Executed, for London and Middlesex,

during the last Eight Years.

Murder. Coiners. Various Crimes.

Men, Women. Men. Women. Men. Women.

FromDec. 1771 to Dec. 1772, 3 2 32 37

Dec. 1772 to Dec. 1773, i 1 burnt I 29 - 3*

Dec. 1773 to Dec. 1774, 1 - 3* 32

Dec. *774 to f)ec. 1775, 1 1 3 40 1 46

Dec. 1775 to Dec. 1776, 6 8 24 38

Dec. 1776 to Dec. 1777, 2 1 29 - 3*

Dec. 1777 to Dec. 1778, 1 I 31 33

Dec. 1778 to Dec. 1779, 2 1 burnt '9 1 -2

H 3 18 I 233 2 273

TABLE

TABLES.

439

TABLE V.

HOME CIRCUIT.

Total Account of Prisoners Burnt in the Hand — Whipped — Acquitted- — Discharged by Proclamation — or against whom Bills have been returned Not found — in the Counties of Hertford, Essex, Kent, Sussex and Surry, for seven Years, from the Year 1764 to 1770 Inclusive.

ttf C ~I P r* H* D r X Whipped. Acquitted. Discharged 1 Proclamatio: Bills not four 1 ? s.

P P CU CL.

Hertford 9 12 56 47 32 *3

Essex 24 35 71 62 3* 223

Kent 75 20 132 91 34 352

Sussex 11 >5 23 16 4 69

Surry 40 >4 124 77 24 279

Total *59 96 386 293 125 io59

Ff

TABLE

An Account of the Number of Prisoners Tried and of

v®

*8 t

8 2

a s

5 2

C/3 o X

2*0) <u

II

I 3

1°

^2 U

O

c

o

o o

M Discharged by Proclamation. in 00 N n i VO tO

M S - Whipped and Discharged. m 4 1 I i m

N “ S5 Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. i m H 1 -1 tr\

O i4 o Not Guilty Discharged. N IN. vO O N O 0 5 1 VO O

u Discharged by Proclamation. i 1 i 1 1 N

M U-. u, © U Whipped and Discharged. 1 1 ' ' 1 I ‘ 1 1

£5 o g Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. 1 i 1 ' 1 1 1

Not Guilty Discharged. N ft M " 1 C\

« K Discharged by Proclamation. N VO N o tN

M *" M 2 Whipped and Discharged. N 1 to 1 1 " 1 VO

N^ *5 Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. N t N 1 M " 1 N

O £ Not Guilty Discharged. 00 N N tN C* , in GO

M Discharged by Proclamation. to W\ to VO *-n O M

X IA Q Whipped and Discharged. m 1 N 1 1 1 -

X o frfc Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. 1 1 I i ' 1 1

H o Not Guilty Discharged. VO 00 VO In. "1 VO

M Discharged by Proclamation. to On N N *4 " 1 00 t*

« X Whipped and Discharged. 1 N m l i 1 1 to

M 01 Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. N M I 1 1 ' 1 m

« Not Guilty Discharged. O fr* o to *1 VO

LO VO in VO VO m VO r- 00 VO 1^ VO I-. O 1^

I

o

CJ

Prisoners Convicted and Sentenced to be Burnt in the Hand and and of Prisoners Discharged by Proclama at the several Assizes and within the Oxford Circuit for Seven Years ending at Michaelmas 1771*

VO* tx. VO VO VO 00 VO O« r>*. tv. 3

I Discharged by Proclamation. so 00 N 00 ro so [^1

Q K O M Whipped and Discharged. 1 1 ro m 1 l n Ln

(ft f* < 5 Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. tn I m " I

C/3 Not Guilty Discharged. N N O N N M O 7 20 112

M Discharged by Proclamation. 00 to Th ~ I Os«1

fit X 0 Whipped and Discharged. 1 1 1 N N 1 rx.

ft* 0 X Burrtt in the Hand and Discharged. I . ro pm

X CO Not Guilty Discharged. 0 VO O H t *1

1 0 Discharged by Proclamation. NO ro O N CO ij- 1 1 CO

cx.0 N (* Whipped and Discharged. f- » 1 I 1

w u x w Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. 1 1 1 n to

X Not Guilty Discharged. O c* SO 89 8, Si

X Discharged by Proclamation. pm N N CO 10 1 8

1: Whipped and Discharged. 1 ' I 1 ' 1 1 1

a*I *< Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. m 1 4 pm 1 co

1 Not Guilty Discharged. N m SO *0

m m Discharged by Proclamation. t* M 1 to 1

,*s£ Whipped and Discharged. ( I 1 1 V 1 1 '1 ‘

£* u 3 S Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. 1 l 1 1 1 *'I '

a O Not Guilty Discharged. M t «- c» I so

61

a

H

«o 00 2*

Q

An Account of theiJumber of Criminals Condemned to Death

ei

? O

V M *5

Sentenced to to VO ON M- VO VO rs. ON N oo to rs. On N l/N N to to to to i

Transportation. to CO 4- N to co to to N N pm pm N M to lx to co to N l£r

Seven other Crimes. I f N 1 H 1 pm N I pm - N N pm I N N 1 N - 1 IS

Petty Larceny. co 1 1 tm N 1 1 pm pm - 1 1 M 1 1 1 1 1 r

&rand Larceny. N Th N oo W OO pm ON N o M 00 pm Th tn pm to M Pm to CO o. pm Os pm VO pm OS N is. N co to co N N 00 o to 1 JT

Reprieved for CO N *0 o o Os VO N to to CO VO o Os r^ 00 VO mm IS* pm r^. to 1 *5

Transportation. pm N m pm N pm mm pm CO pm pm 1 1 & CO

Executed. O N VO try N pm VO to to CO ft to to pm *4- to to VO rs to 1 1

Condemned to Death. VO OO N pm N try co pm tv. rs N H- N to z 00 00 to OS O N o co O co VO OO M VO 1 1 it

Six other Crimes. i i CO N Pm VO N pm I 1 N *m ~ N 1 N VO pm tm " 1 1 1

Returning from 1

Transportation. i i ( I 1 1 1 ' 1 CO l 1 i i H pm i ' 1 1 'O

Forgery. i Pm ' pm 1 1 1 1 1 H 1 1 I 1 i I 1 i 1 1 rJ-

Horse-stealing &c. 00 VO to pm pm pm IS. tX is* pm to 00 CO M tm to 00 pm O N VO *1 1 s

Robbery in Highway & Dwelling. 00 CO N N N to VO to to N c - N N N pm - to - 1 IvT

Burglary and House-breaking to VO to * ON N N 00 N w to pm tm to 00 VO pm ON to - 1 1 s

Petty Treason N f ro N 1 i l M 1 pm to 1 i N N t N 1 H i 1 1

and Murder. 1 1 N

O M N to rf* to VO ix 00 o o pm N to VO |S* 00 ON O tm N 1 1

IA U"t try to to *o to to to VO VO VO VO vo VO o O VO VO Is. rx Cj

Is rv is. r^ N is* N In Pv rv K rv tv* is* IN N lx IN 1

o

X Z3 U

® *5 'o £2

*5 <s Q r . *>> 55 < i-4

Q

5«1 -2

s,

o g

<J 3 o

S <§- *?.£

a s' " *5

*5 ? n C S k w -

«-i

rj^cj

U*Jg <3

*m o

O c/i

v-^g a

o vj c 4-1

-£4«P G C £ 3

§ 5 ...9

l-i

I 5 ...-.

Hr CO^U r+ O

a -o g 2

— 04 lO

O O

*J w w <J

8 § <g .5

8

Transported, v/as. Capital Offences reprieved) Offences made transportable,

Grand and Petty Larceny.

Executed.

Condemned to Death.

Six other Crimes.

Returning from Transportation.

Forgery.

Stealing Horses and other Cattle.

House-breaking in Day-time.

Burglary.,

Robbery.

Murder and Petty Treason.

Treason.

o U-N 00 co O M- CO d 00 CO to co N co to Ov IV to VO 1 1

to LO VO rt- vo to CO d d ^\o VO VO co CO "1 1°

to co CO mm 4 6 VO to Ov H 5 4 pm r-N 4 6 d VO N d VO

N co co Ov OV IA o d to mm to to mm CO to N VO CO CO co Ov O 00

CO w d d d m d CO CO M mm d N d d d d d d to

M I CO M 1 CO mm mm 1 CO mm to 9 to pm d

1 1 i 1 1 1 d d 1 mm [SO

i mm 1 1 mm 1 m 1 I CO i i < m I c 1 i 1 00

VO co vo IV o N o Cv + * M ON VO pm mm d VO 00 on * m Ov 12 11 tv mm 9 OI VO = 1 l?

m I pm 1 CO mm m 1 m 1 mm 1 mm . m i m i 1 1 8

to . pm tm d 'H- CO to 1 1 mm 1 mm to 9 z d - CO 1 1

VO «- N 00 CO mm N to <- CO I Th vo *- d to CO 1 "1 15

V M* P* 1 m* d' 1 1 pm Th pm d d mm CO CO ' d d d 1 - 1 1

M 1 I 1 N 1 l 1 l H 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 I 1

o W d co to VO tv oo CN O pm d CO to vo oo Ov O pm N I 1 *s

v> tn to «o to to to vo VO so VO VO vo VO VC VO vo tv §

tv rv 1 % . tv N tv iv N iv tv tv. tv r> rv tv IV tv tv tv IV tv ^1 1

c?

o

(J

_Q

444

Tables.

V.

TABLE IX.

Felons delivered from Newgate to be

g a s

O SI B* 53 8*3 J30 5? 5

Sessions. 3 O. ? D. f a to 3. 3 $ & % H ?E

F

1773. January 10 *9 3 6 - 38

February 8 24 9 - 41

April 16 24 *9 H - 20 93

May 10 29 >4 - 53

July *4 49 6 5 - 74

September 11 24 9 - . - 44

October 10 *7 8 6 - 41

December 10 *5 9 - *7 51

89 2or 77 31 37 435

1774. January 4 18 3 . - 25

February 16- 33 . 7 3 1 - 60

April <5 24 *7 >3 1 - 7o

May 6 22 2 - 30

July *4 22 12 8 4 30 90

September 22 *6 10 - 2. 1 5*

October 8 8 6 5 1 - 23

December *4 22 16 1 *3 66

99 165 73 29 10 44 420

1775. January 9 29 *4 9 . - 61

February 9 20 7 - 2 _ - 38

April *9 *7 12 4 -; - 52

May 5 9 2 - 16

July 6 11 7 5 - 20 49

September *4 20 6 - 40

October 9 10 7 4 2 - 32

December 8* 9 7 - 1 11 36

79 125 62 22 5 3* 324

Great Total 1179

TABLE

TABLE X. 445

An Account of the Number of Prisoners convicted of Capital Crimes in Scotland, from ift January 1768 to lft July 1779.

S This mark denotes a person pardoned; the rejl were

Northern Circuit. Southern Circuit. WeAem Circuit.

Edinburgh. Aberdeen. Perth. Inverness. Jedburgh. Dumfries. > n' Glasgow. Stirling. Crimes.

17 62 1 Forgery.

1769 1 Horse-Aealing.

- - 1 - Murder and Robbery.

1 I - Murder.

1 - Street-robbery.

*77° 1 Forgery.

2 I - House-breaking and Theft.

- - 1 - Sheep-Aealing.

I - Robbery.

1771 Murder.

- - l - House-breaking and Theft.

- - l - Theft.

- l - Child-murder.

1772 - I - Horse-Aealing.

- - *2 - House-breaking and Theft.

I House-breaking and Theft.

2 - Sheep-Aealing.

2 Murder and Robbery.

- I - . - i Horse-Aealing.

1773 . I i I - Murder.

- - I - Robbing the Mail.

- - 2 - Theft, Robbery, &c.

- - 2 - Robbery.

I House-breaking and Robbery.

*3 - . - Murder.

1 Returning from Transportation.

1 - Horse-Aealing.

1774 1 Sheep-Aealing.

- 1 - House-breaking and Theft.

- #I - ' - Theft of Cattle.

- - l - Rape.

1775 - I - Murder.

Theft.

2 Robbery.

I Child-murder.

1776 - I - Shop-breaking and Theft.

- I - Murder.

- - 1 - Theft.

- - 1 - Stealing a Letter from PoA Office

1777 I Child-murder.

1778 - 1 - Theft of Cattle.

1779 *1 _ Murder.

- - I - Murder and Robbery.

2 3 5 7 5 5 I I 7 3 57 Total Condemned.

6 - 3 2 I - 2 2 18 Pardoned.

*7 3 7 2 3 - I 5 ' 39 Executed.

TABLE

446

TABLES.

TABLE XI.

An Account of the Number of Prisoners in the Gaols and Prisons of England and Wales, at the Time they were visited in 1779.

As some county gaols are also the county bridewells, where petty offenders are not always separated from felons', in those places 1 include petty offenders under the article felons &c. The reason of my distinguishing the women debtors, ig to shew that a room or two in the gaoler's house may probably be sufficient for them, instead of a separate ward, as proposed in my general plan for a county gaol (edit. 1.) — I have omitted mentioning all those prisons in which, at the time of my visiting, there were no persons confined.

a O

<r O*

S? S

tn f? n *4 1

y o

% 9?

2 ll

Men.' Worn. 0 r Men. Worn. p

Abingdon I 0 O 0 Bodmin 0 O 0 *3

Bridewell O O 0 5 Sher. Ward 12 1 0 0

Appleby 7 I 2 0 Boston 0 O 2 0

Aylesbury 6 0 12 0 Bradford 11 I 0 0

Bridewell 0 0 O 3 Brecon 3 O 3 0

Aylsham 0 O O 4 Bristol 41 6 9 0

Barking 0 0 O 1 Bridewell 0 0 0 8

Basford 2 O O 0 Laws. gate 0 0 0 5

Bath 10 O O 2 Buntingford 0 a 0 1

Batley 17 1 O 0 Bury St. Edmunds 18 0 5 0

Beaumaris 4 O 1 0 Bridewell O 0 0 2

Becdcs 0 O O 9 Cambridge 20 1 2 0

Bedford 7 O 2 0 Bridewell O 0 0 7

Bridewell 0 0 O 2 Town 1 0 2 0

Berkhamsted 0 O O 1 Bridewell 0 0 0 6

Berwick z O O 0 Canterbury 2 0 2 0

Beverley 0 0 O i. Bridewell 0 0 0 4

Town 2 0 O 0 Cardiff 2 1 0 0

Hall-garth 1 0 O 0 Town 1 0 0 0

Birmingham 0 0 O 8 Cardigan 1 1 0 0

59 2 17 34 112 11 25 46

Carlisle

TABLES.

447

Debtors,. g S ►n 0 3 M 0 g.a Debtor* a 3 a

Vom, J? ?* Men. Worn. 0 $<< cn

Carlisle 32 O 21 0 Gloucester City l O 1 O

City 2 1 O 0 Gosport 0 O 0 9

Carmarthen 13 I 8 0 Guildford 0 O 0 3

Town O 0 I 0 Halifax 5 O 0 0

Carnarvon 5 0 1 0 Hal fled 0 O 0 5

Chelmsford 34 O 7 0 Haverfordwest i O 2 0

Bridewell 0 O 0 27 Town O I 0 0

Chester . 18 I 4 0 Hereford 18 I 9 0

City 6 I 5 0 City 4 O 0 0

Bridewell 0 O 0 1 Hertford 1 O *7 0

Chesterfield Bridew. o O 0 1 Bridewell 0 O 0 1

Cirencester O 0 0 6 Horsham 12 O 6 0

Clare O 0 0 1 Hull 8 O 1 0

Colchester O 0 4 0 Bridewell 0 O 0 IK

Bridewell O O 0 1 Huntingdon 10 I *4 O

Coventry 5 0 4 0 Ipswich 22 2 23 O

Bridewell 0 0 0 1 Ivelchester 32 I *5 O

Cowbridge 0 O 0 2 Kettering 0 O 0 2

Dartford 0 O 0 5 Kingston 3 O 0 O

Derby 12 O 6 0 Bridewell 0 O 0 6

Devizes 1 O 0 *4 Lancaster 67 5 11 0

Dolgelly 3 0 2 0 Launceston 0 0 4 0

Dorchester H 0 6 0 Lavenham 0 0 0 3

Dover Castle 3 0 0 0 Leicester 22 1 10 0

Town 1 0 1 0 Bridewell 0 0 0 8

Durham 12 2 22 0 Town 3 0 to 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 9 Lewes 0 0 0 8

Ely 7 0 1 6 Lincoln 22 0 *4 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 2 City 1 0 0 0

Exeter 0 O 33 O Litchfield 3 0 1 0

Sher. Ward 35 I 0 O Liverpool 22 3 0 0

City 2 O 2 O Bridewell 0 0 0 8

Bridewell 0 O 0 27 London Bridewell 0 0 0 13

Flint 1 O 3 O BoroughCompt. 13 3 2 0

Folkingham 0 O 0 2 Clerkenwell 0 0 45 0

Gainsborough 0 O 0 5 Bridewell 0 0 0 171

Gloucester J5 1 24 0 Fleet *77 7 0 . 0

221 8 *55 104 4*7 25 177 248

King'*

448

1* A

B L t 8.

O cr 0 0 3 0 if? Q, r-» < 5 0 a 2

2 0 'C ! 2 ft* r*

Men. Worn. r ? Men. Worn 0 w

King's Bench . 4-73 2S 0 O Peterborough Br . O 0 O I

Marshalsea 88 4 0 0 Petworth O 0 O 2

Newgate 46 5 i4i 0 Plymouth 1 0 O O

New Ludgate >5 0 0 0 Portsmouth 6 0 1 O

Poultry Compt. 43 3 5 0 Presteign 2 0 2 O

Savoy 0 0 0 98 Preston 0 0 O *7

Tothill-fields Br. 0 0 0 74 Reading 8 1 9 0

Whitechapel 5 0 0 0 Bridewell 0 0 0 7

WoodftreetCom.32 6 11 0 Richmond 6 0 0 1

Ludlow 0 0 2 0 Rippon Liberty 3 0 0 0

Lynn Regis 3 0 2 0 Town 1 0 0 1

Maidstone !5 0 23 0 Rochester 2 0 0 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 13 Ruthin 2 0 2 0

Manchester 0 0 0 11 St. Alban's Liberty 0 0 1 0

Marlborough 0 0 0 4 Bridewell O 0 0 3

Middlewich 0 0 0 5 St. Geor. Fields Br. 0 0 0 44

Monmouth 6 0 12 0 Salisbury 16 1 >5 0

Montgomery 4 0 3 0 City 1 0 1 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 1 Sheffield 8 0 0 0

Morpeth 9 1 6 0 Shepton-Mallet 0 0 0 *9

Bridewell 0 0 0 3 Sherborn 0 0 0 2

Nantwich 2 0 0 0 Shrewsbury J9 4 10 0

Newcastle 12 1 4 0 Town 1 0 0 0

small Gaol 0 0 0 1 Bridewell 0 0 0 8

Bridewell 0 0 0 7 Southampton I , A

Newport, Essex 0 0 0 9 Sher. Ward . J 3 u

Northampton H 1 >5 0 Town 0 O 1 0

Town 1 0 0 0 Bridewell 0 O 0 1

Norwich 23 1 29 0 Southwark 20 3 *4 0

City l9 0 5 0 Southwell 0 0 0 >7

Bridewell 0 0 0 7 Spalding 0 0 0 2

Nottingham 12 0 5 0 Stafford 40 0 *4 0

Town 2 0 0 0 Bridewell 0 0 0 9

Oakham 3 0 1 0 Swaffham 0 0 0 10

Odiam 0 0 0 5 Taunton 0 0 0 10

Oxford 12 1 4 0 Thetford 0 0 1 0

Peterborough 1 0 0 0 Thirik 0 0 0 2

840 48 268 Ui OO 1 139 9 71 !56

TABLE

2 o

o S'?

3 RS

^ O'-;

s.

419

I? o

rT ?^o re Jr

sr

Ulk 0 007 Woodbridge 0 O O 1

Wakefield 0 0 0 20 Worcester 18 I 8 0

Walsingham 0 002 Bridewell 0 O 0 6

Warwick 21 1 28 0 City 5 I 4 0

Bridewell 0 O 0 12 Wrexham 0 O 0 2

Winchester 12 0 26 0 Wymundham 0 O 0 5

Bridewell 0 0 Oil Yarmouth 4 O 4 0

Windsor Cattle 1 0 00 York 64 9 16 0

Town 0 010 City 9 3 2 0

Witbeach 1 0 1 0 St. Peter's 5 0 1 0

Witness0 0 0 7 Bridewell 0 0 0 8

Wolverhampton 0 002

35 1 56 61 105 '4 35 22

Debtors. Felons Petty Offenders,

Men. Women.

59 2 >7 34

112 II 25 46

221 8 *55 104

447 25 177 248

84.0 48 268 238

*39 9 7* 156

35 1 56 61

lo5 *4 35 22

958 118 804 909

Total, Men Debtors 1958

Women Debtors - ns

Felons &c. - 804

Petty Offenders - 909

Supposed omitted - 60

Add /* thefey Prisoners in the Hulks

Total Number of Prisoners

3849

526

4375

Though I have visited all the county gaols, and I think all the county bridewells, as also many of the corporation and private-property prisons, yet as there are some few of the two latter which 1 did not fee in 1779, we may add more prisoners on their account j and then probably we shall have nearly the average number of persons confined at one time in the prisons of this kingdom.

INDEX.

A.

Abingdon Bridewell 300

Town Gaol 301

Acle 253

Acquitted prisoners detained for fees ao, 167

not detained for fees 144, 164

seldom employed 25

Act for preserving the health of prisoners, its effects 2, 3 hung up 234, 236, 238, 275, 280, 289, 299, 307, 314, 331, 359,

367* 374* 383* 386, 395 Irish and English compared 16S Act against frivolous and vexatious arrests, its efteft 199 Acts of French parliament respecting prisons 150 Aikin, Mr. his Thoughts on referred to 151 Air 162

Air, frerti, the necessity of in prisons 8 malignity of in gaols9

Aix-la-Chapelle 123 Alarm-bell 43, 225, 299, 422

Aldsworth, Mrs. her legacy 359 Aliment for debtors, difficulty in obtaining 7 ordered by the will of a creditor 355 Allnut, Mr. his legacy 213

Allowance to prisoners, dtfefts respect-nS 5

quantity proposed 40, 47

Allowance, tables of should be hung up 4a

In foreign prisons 55, 56, 63, 65, 66, 68, 69, 71, 72, 73, 76, 78, 79, 81, 82, 86, 87, 88, 99, 101, 104,106,109, no, 111, 113,117, 119,120,121,122, 123, 125,126, 128,130,131, 134, 139,142

to Prussian slaves 74, 78 galley-slaves 85, 90, 97, 99, 102 to sick, fourteen pence a day 130 in English prisons fixed by weight 216,219,229, 231, 240, 254, 264, 267,285,338, 344,400,410 but half to those committed a second time 193 farmed, inffances of 216,285,320, 336, 339* 3 > 36b,424

none to felons 248, 369

to felons paid only monthly 385

Alms-house at Florence 89

- Naples 99

Vienna 83

Amiens 136

Amsterdam 62

Anglesey 416

Antwerp 125

Apertures in the ceiling for foul air 70, 151, 259

Appleby County Gaol 391

was within reach of floods 26 Bridewell 392

Apprentices, faulty, rooms for 192, 196, 202, 236, 237

Anas

INDEX.

Arras 136

Arundel, lord, proprietor 354

Assassinations frequent in Italy too Assizes, judges to remain six days at 163 held too seldom in feme places 19 where no prison 230, 234, 356, 386

Augsburg 114

Axminster, gaol distemper brought there 12

Aylesbury County Gaol 239 Bridewell 240 Ayljban 253

B.

Bacon, lord, his opinion of the gaol distemper 12 Bailiff's, disorders arising from their keeping public houses 7 extortion of 7

keepers of prisons 199, 214, 228, 236,249, 259, 297, 333, 358, 363, 368,371,372 Bakers, punishment of 84 Bala, great fe'Tions there 418 Bridewell 419 Bankrupts and insolvents, severe law against 107 Bark and cordials prescribed to prisoners 130, 242 Barking Bridewell 223 Barrack beds, what 225 Barford 284 Baftl 112 BaJingJUit 335 Bastille 146 Bath City Gaol 360 Baths, necessary in a gaol 28 improper use of 398 Barley 375 Battle 232 Bayreuth 118

Beaufort, duke of, clothes prisoners 320 Beaumaris 416

Beccaria, marquis of, his opinion of confinement before trial 19 on speedy punishment 19 on prevention of crimes 49 remark on executions 100

Beetles Bridewell 260 Bedding, want of, in prisons 10 necessary 39, 85 Bedding and straw, instances where none in prisons 187, 139, 195, 197, 202,218,219,234, 236, 238, 253, 260,261,262,263, 268, 277, 278, 284,288, 290,297, 299, 302, 305, 312,318,332,333, 335, 340, 350, 359,361, 366, 370, 371, 374, 390, 392, 406 Bedfordshire 241 Bedford County Gaol 241 Bridewell 242 Town Gaol 242 Benedi&ines, their prison 131

Berguet 153

Berkeley 326

Betkeley, lord, proprietor 327

Berkhamsted Bridewell 218

Berkshire 298

Berlin 78

Bern 109 Berwick 388 Beverley Bridewell 366 Hall-Garth 370 Town Gaol 370 Bicitre 144 t

Bien venu on admission to a prison 121 Birmingham Town Gaol 269 Black assize at Oxford 11 Blacket, Sir Walter, hisbenefadHon 3S2 Bodmin Bridewell 352

Sheriff's Ward 353 Bologna 87 Borough Compter 214 Boston 291

Bounty to prisoners of war, French and English 159, 160 Bowes, Mr, his charity 365 Boys should be fepa rated from other prisoners 46 Bradley 298 Bradford 373 Bread, short weight of 7

account, should be kept exact 40 assize of f 69, So, 84, 111 inspector of 251, 363

INDEX.

Bread and water, diet, designed as a punishment 71, 76 debtors living a long time upon 341,

379

Breconshire 424 Brecon County Gaol 424 Bridewell 425 Town Gaol 425 Breda 7 3 Bremen 77

Breton, Abbe, founder of a charity for supplying prisoners with linen 140

Bridewell 191

Bridewells, defers and proposed improvements in should be separate from gaols 45 not supported by their work 4?, 67, 63, 116, 121 deiivation of the word 191 Bridges, William, his legacy 317, 318 Bridgi-water 361

Bristol Newgate 358 Bridewell 360 Brome, Mr. chaplain, commended 259 Broughton, Valentine, his legacy 402 Bruges 130 Brunswick 7 5 Buffets I2S Buck inciiamshibi 239 Buckingham 240 Buntingford 218 Burlington, earl of, his charity 365 Bury Gaol 262

Bridewell 263 Butler, bishop, quoted 27

C.

Calais 153

Calcutta, fatal for want of air 8

Call, John, Esq. his assiduity 353

Camhm idceshire 245

Cambridge Gallic 245

County Bridewell 246

Town Gaol 246

Bridewell 247

Canterbury Bridewell 226

City C..ol 227

Cardiff County Gaol 425

Town 428

Cardiganshire 419

Cardigan County Gaol 419

Carlisle County Gaol 389

City 390

Carmarthenshire 421

Carmarthen Castle 421

Borough Gaol 422

Carnarvon, marquis of, proprietor 370

Carnarvonshire 417

Carnarvon County Gaol 417

Caroline, princess, her charity 190

Carr, William, committed from ecclesiastical court 375

Cafftl 120

Cattle, act in Ireland against keeping inprisons 39

Cellar to pump or drown, a fiflion 65

Certificate from parish for debtor's county allowance 286, 362

CrJJiobonorum, process of, 162

Chamber-rents and furniture to be fixed 36

of French prisons 140

Clamberry 106

Chandos, duke of, his charity 332,334

Chapel, necessary in a gaol 31

improper time for service in 34

decent attendance at 57 in foreign houses of correction 80

Chaplain, his character and duty 34

instructs prisoners 53, 58, 91, no, 113

resides in the prison 79, 88, 117, 119, 125, 130 to each galley 99 reads regulations 12

T, 127, 141

discharged 243

Charitable societies, foreign 86,90,106,

139

Charity-box, broke open, method to prevent it 345

Charity-service in France 140

Chelmsford County Gaol 219

Bridewell 221

Cheney Court, for the Soke 334

Cheshire 400

INDEX.

Chester Castle 400

City Gaol 405

Bridewell 407

Chesterjitld Bridewell 277

Gaol 17s Chichester City Gaol 232

Children, profligate, sent to prison at their parents request 55, 71 of malefactors educated 63

Cholmondeley, lord, proprietor Cinque Ports 228

Cirencester 327

Circuit, Home 216

Norfolk *39

Midland 264

Oxford 298

Western 33°

Northern 362

Chester 400

North Wales 416

Carmarthen 419

South Wales 4*3

Crvita-veecbia 96

Clare Bridewell 262

Clauses of act against spirituous liquors to be hung up 41

instances where not hung up 187, 420, 222, 223, 227, 238, 240, 241, 247, 249, 232, 253, 257, 260, 262, 264,268,269,273, 282, 296, 297,

*99> 3°5» 3°7> 3C9> 3I2> 3j8> 3*9* 323,325,327,333,339,341,352,

357* 359* 36i» 3^6* 3S3* 388* 39°» 398,404,412,417,420, 422, 423, 424,426,428

Clause6 of act that prisoners may send out for neccfiaries 32

Cleanliness, its benefits 36

always promoted by the 89,

136, 150, 151 of the utmost importance 121

Clerkenzutll Bridewell 196

Clerks of assize, prisoners detained for their fees 20 their new demand for certificate 20 charge made by one, on a pardoned transport 280

Clerks of the peace, prisoners detained for their fees 20 fees demanded by some of them 20 their demand on sailors fined a shilling 344

Clothes tainted by foul air, how to be 1 purified 29, 39 for galley-slaves 85, 90, 97 to be worn in gaol 90, 113, 119,

*35» *99 of felons should be buried 235 for prisoners to be tried in 265,

280, 363

Clubs in prisons, an abuse 32

one for wine and beer 179, 206

Coals allowed 192, 222, 225, 241, 250, 257,260, 263,275, 310, 366, 369,

382, 388, 397

Cockermouth 390

Colchester Bridewell 221

Town Gaol 223

Collar, iron, on galley-slaves 109

on prisoners taken after escapes 80,81

Collection for town prisoners 283 through the county, annual 271,

276, 280

Colleges at Cambridge, charitable 245,

*47

Oxford 303

Winchester, donation 331

Collings, Abel, his charity 281

Collyer, James, Esq. his complaint to the king of a bad gaol 249

C'Jogn 123

Combinations prevented 55, 64, 137

Commissaire dc la prison in France 144

Commissioners of sick and wounded, their Attention 161

Common-side debtors should have allowance 36

Concicrgcric at Paris 36 late fire there 141

Condemned prisoners, money paid for seeing 27 not left alone 62

liberal allowance to, abroad 74, 93, icS,111 1

Condemned

INDEX.

Condemned prisoners attended and buried

byafociety 93 fen t to a separate prison in France 138 cells for in Newgate 174

Confinement, terms of 54, 68, 84, 90, 96,119,133

Consumption thought contagious 98

Contempts, prisoners so called 324

Conveyance to alDze at keeper's expense 411,414, 416 to quarter sessions ditto 277, 288, 289

Conway, great sessions at 417

Cook, captain, on etf'e&of cleanliness on the behaviour of his ship's crew 38

Copper and bath 28

Cornwall 351

Cornwall, duke of, proprietor 355

Court military of archbi shop of York 371

Court of conscience debtors, confined with criminals 197, 203, 339 cleared at different periods 197, 309,

36r> 373» 374 sent to bridewell 197, 203

Courts of justice held in prisons 47

Courts of French gaols paved, and often*washed 137

Coventry City Gaol 267

Bridewell 269

Cowlridge 428 great sessions there 426

Crafler, John, a late gaoler commended 383

Crib bedsteads 39, 46, 238

Criminals not ungovernable 47

Crowded rooms, bad effects of 9, 10

Crown debtors, not cleared by insolvent arts 7

Croydon, assize there, no prison 234

Cumberland 389

Cupboards for criminals 413

Cutaneous distemper in a prison 252

D.

Dagge, Abel, a gaoler commended 31

Damp rooms under fortifications unhealthy 136

Dartfori Bridewell 227

Daventry Town Gaol 297

Davers, Sir Charles, proprietor 262

Dean of York, proprietor 369

Dean and Chapter of Borough St. Peter, their prison 297

Dean and Chapter, proprietors 371

Debtors, why not permitted to work 6 few have their groats 6 to be separated from felons by ad Charles II. 29 alimented abroad 53,62,71, 77, 79, 81, 87,106, 120; 130, 142, 162 few in foreign countries, the reafoo why 53, 77, 106, 142 few at Milan 103 not confined when they hare no efforts 123, 162

French, how cleared by parliament

43

allowed as felons 173, 186, 189, 196, ao2, 214, 219,233,240, 248, 250, »54, 270, 273»275»279»*93» 310, 388, 393, 400, 410, 418 confined with felons 197, 203

fewer in England, cause of 199 make garters, purses c. 259, 286,

344* 36l> 367 work in the crown and shire-halls

394

refuting to submit to gaolers commands 411

Delays of trial in France, corrected by parliament 143

Delft 60

Denbighshire 413

Denbigh Bridewell 415

Derbyshire 275

Derby County Gaol 275

Town Gaol 277

Derby, John, his legacy 34J Derby, lord, proprietor 407

Deventer 72 ,

Devizes 338

Devonshire 344

Devonshire, duke of, proprietor 374

Diet, tables of 56, 65, 66,117,127,154* 434 (See Allowance and Food)

INDEX

Diet, hot every day In houses of correction 68, 117 ftifcipline should be gentle in bridewells 47

exact in French gaols 141

Dispensary, general, their charity 190

Divine service at Rotterdam 57 on the (lairs 224

Dolgelly 418

Bridewell 419

Del-bun at Amsterdam 68

Donations, lifts of, wanting 41

Done after 373

Dorsetshire 341

Dorchester County Gaol 341

Dover Castle 228

Town Gaol 228

Dresden 81

Drunkenness, how punished in a sheriff's officer 70

Dublin gaoler non-resident 34

Dublin 166

Ducking-ftcol 84

Dungeons, to force cor.session 72 in no new prisons abroad 74 foreign, horrid 82,114, u 5*124, 142, 145, 150 daily visited in France 142 great numbers confined in one 150, 256

©flagonal, very deep 265 for debtor* 270

deep, circular, aired by hand-ventilator 306 funk lower 405

In a new bridewell 407

Dungeons, other instances of in prisons 72, 123, 126, 136, 166, 216, 217, 225,241,243,250, 252, 254, 256, 257,260,263, 265, 268, 269, 270, 273,275,279,282, 283, 286, 290, 295,299, 301, 302, 304, 306, 309, 310» 3r3» 33°> 344> 35»> 359> 367> 379> 3s 5>39392> 394» 397. 4°°r 405,407,410,417, 420,424

Dunghills Sec. to be removed 39

Dunkirk 15a

Duntze, Dr. and his friend catch the gaol distemper in London 78

Durham 378

County Gaol 378

Bridewell 381

Durham, bishop of, proprietor 378

Dutch and English money compared 55

E.

Ecclesiastical court debtors, no bail for 7 warrant, part of the form 375

Edinburgh 162

Edmtmfton, William, his legacy 596

Edward VI. his grant to lord Wentworth 198"

Ely Gaol 248

Bridewell 249

Ely, bishop of, proprietor 249

Employment of prisoners 55, 76, 77, 81,113 — 191,2iS, 231, 251, 282, 284,286,295,305, 307, 326, 369, 387

necessary 45, no in (pinning &c. 55, 59, 67, 7s, 78, So, 82, 95, 105,109,118,126--221,223,261,295,305,307,396 in woollen manufactory 60, 71, 118, 125

in various trades 60,63,71,83,103, 113, 116, 121, 128 in linen cloth manufactory 68, 104, 121, 135 in picking oakum 68 — 197, 374, 399, 404

in weaving sacking for East India Company 72 in weaving coarse carpeting 73, 78 of (laves 74, 78, 84, 89, 97, 98, 99, joi, 103, 119 in attending silk-worms 78, So in grinding corn 80, 122, 145 in sawing wood 81, 97 in cleaning streets 103, 109, 119 in weaving gauze 104 in grinding spectacle-glasses 116 in making lace 116, 126, 129

INDEX

Employment of prisoners in working on marble 118 in pounding stone 120, 123 on paper-hangings 728 in polishing plate-glades 145 in beating hemp 192,237,307,395 in chopping rags 218 in making whiting 231 in pounding tile-fherds 366, 369, 374

Employment, none in bridewells 217, 227,231,236,238,240,253,269, m> 3*> 3Z5* 3*7* 333* 339* 3+°» 343>348» 357. 358>36o»4°4

Escapes punished 91, 97, 99, 104 not punished 109 expedient to prevent 144

Essex 219

Ethiopia, India tec. written on doors 74

Etty, Mr. lelTee, lets 302

Exchequer debtors, no bail for 7 one ten years in gaol 426

Exchequer writs, part of the form of 324 suspicions concerning 324

Executions, few in Holland 52 solemnity of abroad 52 not frequent 63, 71, 76, 120, 124 better, if less frequent 100 soon after sentence 108, 164 number cf, at Amsterdam 63 in Scotland 163, 445 in London and Middlesex 436, 43S Exeter, lord, proprietor 297

Exeter High Gaol 344

Sheriff's Ward 345

Bi idewell 347

City Caol 348

Extra-work, prisoners should have profit of 49

F.

Falrr.ciith 354

Famished, almost, by negls£t of keeper, three prisoners -231 fix prisoners 319

Farming provision, a cause of distress 5 refused on detection of abuse elsewhere 422

E X.

Parish, Mr. chaplain, visited those sick of gaol fever 390

Fastenings of curious contrivance 397

Fees, should be abolished 36, 47 tables of should be hung up 41

Scotch table of 164 detention for 167,280 what are legal 170 raised by justices 195,197 paid by the magistrates 225, 227, 229,231, 383, 3S6 abolishc*.' 227,229, 231 a table of, dated 1603 23S

lowered by judges 259, 381 table of 176, i8o, 183, 188, 197, 195,19S, 203, 209, 213, 215, 217, 220, 225, 230, 235, 236, 238,246, 247, *51, 255, 259, 267, 266,268, 271, 273, 276, 280, 287, 290, 292,295, 303, 307, 309,311,

3*5* 3i8> 3zi> 3z4> 329> 331* 338* 342, 346, 349, 357, 360, 364, 368,

376* 3?°> 383> 386* 4°* 4°&> 408, 4J», 414, 426 signed by gaoler 242, 244, 395

Feet of prisoners fore and black 197

Felons, their allowance fcar.ty 6 chained at night to bedsteads 263 lately escaped 299,401 beg in the streets at Christmas 337, 345

sick, relieved by recorder 394

Fenelon, quotation from Fenton, Mr. recorder, his humanity 394

Fighting in gaols to be punished 41

Fines, what prisoners called so 170 very miserable 324, 422 no county allowance to 324

Fire, sheriff's officer to attend at 70 precautions against 84, 92,166,230 escape from on the leads 187

Fire-place necessary in a bridewell 46

Firing given by gaoler to common-fida debtors 346

Firing and candles allowed in plenty 382

Firmian, count de, his kind assistance 104

Firmin, Mr, his employment of poor 48

INDEX.

Fisherton-Anger Gaol 336

Flanders 125, 135

Fleet Prison 177

Flintshire 410

Flint County Gaol 410

Florence 87

Folkingham Bridewell 2S9

Food, want of in bridewells 5

In county gaols 6 regulation of 40, 47

Fothergill, Dr. on employment of prisoners 11S Francs 135

Francfort 120

Free ward, necessary for common-side debtors 36 none 239, 299, 302, 318, 359, 371 a thorough-fare to other rooms 286

Frey burg 109

Friars, their hospitals 83, 88, 96, 100, 105, 115

Fumigation, method of 38

G.

Cabricl, John, his donation and legacy 321

C air.Jborough Bridewell 2S8

Galleys, none sent founder twenty 97

Galley-Haves 86, 89, 96, 99, 101, 105, 138

lie on Ihore 89 expense of 97 in Bern, so called 109

Jlonnctes and Dejhonr.tus 119 in France, commencement of their term 138

Gaming, a bad custom in psifons 17 prohibited 69,101,110,134,403,411 practised 179, 199, 206, 42a Gaol, County, proposed plan of 26 similar 88

professedly not for punishment 71 new, commended '230, 353 a County Bridewell 243, 246, 275,

293» 295> 323. 336* 4IO»4I3>4J7> 419, 420, 421

Gaol-Committee, their report of opinion of judges against ironing 18 their disapprobation of taps in a prison 32 their list of charities to the Fleet 179

Gaol delivery, but once a year 19, 255,

379* 383> 3g6, 390, 392 once in three years 374

Gaol distemper, Stow's account of 2 destroys more than are executed 11

Spreads beyond the prison 11 not found in Italy 93 unknown in some countries abroad 108

instances of in English gaols 190, 201,216,220,221, 227, 239, 241, 247,265,282, 307, 314, 320, 322,

323> 33°> 332> 339* 348* 352> 357* 390, 397, 401, 428 remarks concerning 430

Gaoler, his duty 31

non-resident, a grievance 34 should not be a sheriff's officer 34 his salary 56, 72, 142 or keeper, rules for 64, 69, 72 exempted from taxes abroad 13 r, 142

French, hanged for suffering a prisoner to starve 141 care in choice of 142 pays for water 197, 202 pays rent 187, 190, 199, 240, 250, 254, 273, 278, 294, 326, 327, 328,

340* 344. 367» 370. 377>40O>4°7* 412

pays window-tax 100, 197, 199,

202, 214,297, 3°7» 337* 353* 355 signs table of fees 199,242,244, 395 pays land-tax 214, 285 of two gaols thirty-eight years 2S6 four successions of in the same family 294 fifty years in office, signs rules and orders, and requires glirniffi 342 by patent from bishop 378 paid by hereditary sheriff 392

Garnish explained 16

INDEX.

r

Garnish, prisoners condemned for extort* ing 16 forbidden in France 139 a paper hung up demanding it 199, 220, 277 forbidden by justices 3(4 required by a gaoler 34a required in an old table of fees 371

Garnish-room 258

Gate-house, Westminster 103

Geneva 106

Genoa 101*

Germany 73, 114

Gerrard, Sir Thomas, his charity 395

Ghent 131

Gilpin, Bernard, preaches inprisons 34

Glamorganshire 425

Glasgow 162, 166

gaoler there ordered to fee every room daily 33 politeness of the magistrates 33

Class windows, improper in gaols 2S, 45

Glass-grinding, unwholesome 116

Gloucestershire 323

Gloucester Castle 323

City Gaol 328

Godolphin, earl of, proprietor 35$

G effort 333

Gouda 59

Gould, judge, fines a gaoler for detaining acquitted prisoners ai

Grand-Chatelet at Parit 139

Grate in floors 29

Gratz 84

Groats of debtors 6, 40

Groningen 70

Guildford Bridewell 2 38

Gwynn, Eleanor, her charity 213, 215,

H.

Hague 69

Halifax 377

Hallamshire (See Sheffield)

Haller, Dr. his opinion of our gaol fever 111

Unified Bridewell 222

Hamburgh 76

Hammocks hung to the ceiling 196

Hampshire 330

Hanau 119

Uanmcr 412

Hanover 7 5

Hanway, Mr. on separate confinement 27

Harle, Thomas, gaoler, commended 383

Harlem 60

Harwich 223

Hafiedine, Thomas, his charities 286

Hafiar Hospital, gaol fever there n Haverfordwest County Gaol 420

Town Gaol 420

Haulton Castle 409

Heberden, Dr. on wet rooms 37

Herefordshire 317

Hereford County Gaol 317

Bridewell 319

City Gaol 319

Herris, Elizabeth, her charity 220

Hertfordshire 216

Hertford County Gaol 216

Bridewell 217

Heydon, John, his legacy 359

Hinkley Bridewell 272

Hit chin 218

Hobson, Thomas, his charity 248

Hodgefton, Dr. his charity 365

Holderness, earl of, constable 228 proprietor 370

Holland 52

Hope, Mr. John, his kindness 64

Hofital General near Paris 146

Horde, Thomas, his charity not fully-paid 303

Horfhamt felons there near escaping 27

Gaol 229

Hospital at Harlem 60

Bologna 87

Florence 88

Naples loo

Genoa 102

Milan 10;

Turin 106

Lille 136

Hospital

INDEX

Hospital of S. Micbile at Rome 94

Hospitals at Rome 96

Paris 149

Hospital*, patients kept too warm in 68 for convalescents 83, 89, 96 for children 83, 94,102,106, 149 for galley-slaves 91, 98, 100, iox for orphans 94, 105 for lunatics 102, 106, 145, 149 loftiness of 100

Houses of correction not to be expected to maintain themselves (See Bridewells)

Huish, George, town-clerk, signs table of fees 335

Hulks on the Thames 429

Hull, murderer there cleared by delay of trial 20

Gaol 373

Bridewell 374

HUNTINGDONSHIRE 243

Huntingdon Gaol and Bridewell 243

Huffey, Rebecca, her charity 285, 286

Hutchinson, — Esq. his charity loft 2? r

I.

Janitor appointed by constable appoints a deputy 301

Idiots and lunatics in gaols 10 ldlenefi, ill effects of in prisons 13, no,

*39> *45> *39 not permitted in Dutch houses of correction 53, 71 lamented by a keeper 326

Idler,quotation from 15

Jews allowed a different diet 55 excused from working on their fab-bath 122

Jews ward, one abroad 92 in Poultry Compter 186 111 language punished in sheriff'a officers 70

Implements and materials required in bridewells by act of parliament 46

Industry, house of inlfle of Wight 334

Infection, precautions against 9, 431

Infirmaries necessary in gaols 29

in French gaols how situated 139

Infirmary for galley-slaves onfhore (See Hospitals) of a prison, spacious 92, 98 one room, inconvenience of it 363

Inspectors or regents, their office (See Regents) necessary 43, 159 should have no salaries 44, 64, 113

John of Gaunt's grant from Edward 111. 372

JpftuUb Gaol 25S

Bridewell 260

Ireland 166

Irish acts concerning prisons 9, 28, 33, 39,40,45, 167, 168

Iron bedsteads 87, 88,413

Irons, used by some gaolers from avarice 17

not used in foreign prisons 58, 72, 86, 87, 92, 99, 107, 125, 136,137

used at Hamburgh 76

on two French prisoners 136 used in bridewells 252,-153, 261, 262, 2-2, 300, 312, 327, 357 on women disused 265 ordered to be tiken off for a weekly payment 288

Iron-grate doors 83, 230

Italy 86

Justice, speedy, good effects of 108

Justices, bound to inspect bridewells 43 fineable if a fcridewell with a court be not provided 45

Ivelchester Counry Gaol 356

K.

Keeper (See Gaoler)

Keeper's freehold, a bridewell 327, 39c shop in a bridewell 327

Kempe, Frances, her charity loft 231

Kendal County Bridewell 702

Town Gaol 392

Kent 224

Ki'tUiing 2.06

INDEX.

Kideott, gaol so called 367

Kidderminster 309

Kiltr.air.ham 167

King, proprietor 284,285,301,400 his benefaction at Salisbury 337 bounty to Cornwall 352

King's evidence should be confined separate 138

King, Lord Chancellor, his declaration against severity 18

Kings Bench Prison 204

allowances, from Lincoln Castle 286

Kingston Bridewell 237

Town Gaol 238

Kingston upon Hull (Sec Hull) Knartjbcrcugh Honour and Forest 372

Town Debtors 372

Gaol 372

Knights, esquires, gentlemen, yeomen, different rates of board and lodging 364, 380

L.

Ladbroke, Sir Robert, letter to him quoted9Lancashire 393

Lane after Castle 393

Langton, Mrs. her charity 395

Latham, Peter, his charity 396

Laubach 84

Launceston 351

Lausanne 108

LavenhamBridewell 261

Lawford' s-gate, Bristol 325

Laws made by prisoners 182, an, 265

Lawson, Mrs. her charity 365 t acts 373

Leeds, duke of, proprietor 377

Legacies, lifts of necessary 41

care of required by the ail 32d George 11. 41 care of at Bruges 131 no memorial of 187, 190, 213, 215, 245, 259, 263, 265, 286,318,32T, 3l8» 337. 34»> 349. 359* 3^8, 379 loft 190,251,281,328,368 ancient table of 349

Leghorn 89

Leicestershire 270

Leicester County Gaol 270

Bridewell 272

- Town Gaol. 273

Bridewell 274

Lettfom, Dr. on fresh air 29

Lewardtn 71

Lewes Bridewell 230

Licences to fell liquor, pernicious effects of in gaols 31, 179, 199, 442 none in Ireland 33

Liege 124

Lille 136

Lincolnshire 285

Lincoln Castle 285

City Gaol 290

Lind, Dr. on spread of gaol fever in the navy 12 on purifying infected shipc 38

Linen, clean, weekly, to prisoners abroad 79, 103, 122, 126, 128, 129,131, 133, 139,152

charity of to prisoners in Paris 140

Litchfield 312

Litter tec. a nuisance in prisons 39,269

Liverpool 397

politeness of the magistrates 397

Bridewell 398

London 172

Lostwithiel 355

Lucca 100

Ludgate, New 182

Ludlow 317

Lukau -80

Lumley, lady, her charity 365

Lunatics kept with prisoners 167, 252,

289, 339. 343. 366> 374» 38*. 4* 5 should not go in common with prisoners 167

Lunenburg 76

Lynn 257

Lyons, bad dungeons at 150

- excellent hospital at 151

M.

Macclesfield Prison 407

Macclesfield Bridewell 407

INDEX.

Maclaine, Dr. his communications 6x

Magdeburg 78

Magistrates, faulty in not inspecting pru Tons 44, 261, 262 have a room in houses of correction 126

inspect weekly 131

Maidstone Gaol 224

Bridewell 226

Malt ground in a prison 326

Manchester 396

Manbtim 121

Mann, Sir Horace, his kindness 89

Marlborough 339

Marshalsea 211

allowance to, from Lincoln Castle 286

M after of work-house, keeper of a bride-.

well 272, 305, 399

Matron at bridewells 192, 399 to the Tick 192,251

Mats to deep on 270 on bedsteads 55, 272

Mead, Dr. on pestilential contagion 37

Measurements, minuteness of, apology for 70

Mechlin 128

Medicines, cordial better than Sudorific in gaol fever 242

Melton-Mowbray Bridewell 272

Mentx 122

Merionethshire 418

Middleburg 72

Middleton, lord, steward 284

Middlewich 404

Milan 103

Mildenhall 262

Minister of parish in Ireland to take care of allowance 40

Mon MOUTHSHIRE 32O

Monmouth County Gaol 320

Town Gaol 321

Montague, duke of, constable 301

Montgomeryshire 415

Montgomery County Gaol 415

Bridewell 416

Mops, brooms &c. allowed 382

Morpeth County Gaol 385

Bridewell 387

Mortality, bill of at Amsterdam 62

Mounfey, Dr. found no gaol fever in Russia 108

Munich 114

N.

Nannul: b 408

Naples 98

Newark 284

Newcastle upon Tyne Newgate 382

Bridewell 384 ,

Tower Gaol 384 ,

Newgate 173

Newport Bridewell 222

Gaol (IJ 333

Bridewell (ditto) 333

Newport-Pagnel 240

New Prison, Clerkenwell 193

Night charges 187, 190, 194, 196

Nimeguen 71

Norfolk 250

Norfolk, duke of, proprietor 374

Norman, Francis, four years list of his prisoners 326

Nomey, John, his legacy 402

North, lord, constable 228

Northamptonshire 294

Northampton County Gaol 294

Town Gaol 296

Northumberland 385

Norwich Castle 250

City Gaol 254

Bridewell 256

Nottinghamshire 279

Nottingham County Gaol 279

Town Gaol 283

Bridewell 284

Number of inhabitants at Amsterdam 62

Naples 98

Number of prisoners in England and Wales 22, 446 150

in a town gaol 269 387

Sent to a bridewell in nine years 289

572 ditto in eight years and a half 326

Number of petty offenders in three years

*3*> 3°5> 3*6, 347

INDEX

Nunnery, infant min and aged women Petty offenders in gaols, because bride-

maintairftd in one 131

Nurenburg 115

O.

Oakham County Gaol 293

Oakum, picking, a healthy employment *97

Oath, solemn form of in Odiam 333

Octagonal house of correction 132

Officer a keeper (See Sheriff's officer) Ofnabrug 75

Oar die 296

Oxfc-bridge Gaol 367

Oven, necessary in a gaol 29

Oven, room called so 394

OxroapstfiRE 302

Oxford Castle 302

City Gaol 302

P.

Padua 87

Paris 136

Parliament, French, takes care of prisons 143

Tatroncfsto French prisons 140

Peacock, Mr. his legacy, no memorial 368

Peat, the only allowance 391

Pelham, Charles Anderson, tfq. proprietor 370

Pemberton, John, his charity 259

Pembroke, lord, pays a legacy 337

Pembrokeshire 420

Pembroke Town Gaol 421

Pennant, Mr. his Tour quoted 401

Perryn 355

Penzance Town Gaol 3 54

Prison for Penwith 354

Perjury uncommon 111, 16a rerth 162

Peterborough Gaol 297

Bridewell 297

Petersburgh, prisons at, visited 3 5

Petty, Sir William, quoted 62

wells insecure 45

Petworth Bridewell 231

Peverelcourt of record 284

Physician for Newgate and the two Compters proposed 36

Pitt, Moses, his Cry of the Oppressed quoted 270

Plymouth 350

Police good 80

PortefraEl, Liberty of the Honour 375

Pool Town Gaol 343 > Bridewell 343

Popham, Mr. his two bills 2

Portland, duke of, proprietor 278

Portsmouth 335

Poultry Compter 186

Prague 81

Prangint, Baron de, his prison 107

Prayers daily in houses of correction 79

Prefeign 423

Prefon 396

Pringle, Sir John, notes the spread of gaol distemper 12

Prison for boys 94

none where assize 234, 356, 386

quarter sessions 237

Prisons, not designed for punishment 7*

foreign, arched 84, 92 permission to visit at Aated times 114

Prisoners of different forts not separated 10

weakened by confinement 25 checked In fending out for liquor.and necessaries 33

in bridewells, stripped for fees 47

refractory punished 56, 65, 72, 90, 125, 127, 194» *47, a86» 363> 37 5> 407

separated according to their crimes 67, 71, 72, 103, 109, 117, 119

sick, care of 92, 98, 100, 130

irons taken off from 225, 430

released 247

neglected by surgeon 259, 406

INDEX.

Prisoners, sick, 7 s.a week allowed to gaoler for their diet 280

6d.a day allowed them 305

supplied by county infirmary 311

proper diet allowed them 314 in bridewells, an act for their relief 6

said not to be included in late act 343 en pension 125, 141 few in Switzerland 108 in Scotland 163 tried out of irons 164 discharged in open court 264 numerous in Ireland 166

obliged to wash before they have allowance 202

almost starved by gaoler's farming allowance 424

Prisoners of War, liberal allowance to 14 how treated by the French last war 14

English, at Dunkirk 152

Bergues 153

Bourbturg 153

At dm 153

Calais 153

regulations for 152

sick, in military hospitals 152, 155

security given by, for parole 154

trnch, at Plymouth 156

Bristol 156

fPincLefler 156

Forton *57

Deal 158

Carlisle J58

Pembroke 158

Chester *59

Liverpool *59

Edinburgh 160

Belfafi 160

Dublin 160

regulations for 157

sick, in naval hospital 158 inspector of, proper 159

American) at Plymouth i6i Forton 161

Pembroke 161

Prisoners, American, regulations for t6s

Prison-uniform recommended 38

Private property of gaols bad 22

Profit of work in bridewells, to common flock 49 one seventh to keeper 56 to prisoners 76, 78, 97, 99, 116,126.one third to ditto 82 all to ditto 82 ore fifth to ditto 135 half to ditto 260, 300, 316 three quarters to ditto 289 to keeper 218, 231, 237, 32* to the county 221 but a secondary object no for three years not twenty shillings a year 23!

Proprietors of gaols 198, 203,218, 221, 228,248,262,278, 284,297, 301, 3a7, 334* 34o» 344* 354* 355* 3*9i 37o, 37'* 37a» 374* 375* 377* 378, 4°7, 408, 409

Protestants excused from mass J22,138

Provinces, French, prisons in 150

Public diversions taxed for support of prisons 67

Public houses not to be frequented by sheriff's officers 70

Punishment the second time of confinement 78, 193

Quakers room 394

Quarrels, how to be decided 41

Quarter sessions, crowded with prisoners 237

Question (See Torture)

R.

Radnorshire 423

Raikes, Mr. relieves distressed fines 324

RjtiJbon 115

Reading County Gaol 298

- Bridewell 300

- Town Gaol 300

Recruiting from prisons, danger of 167

INDEX

Reed, Hester, her legacy 350 \

Regents of prisons, privileges of 64 room for in prisons 126

Rent paid by keeper (See Gaoler) and refunded 187, 190

Richmond, duke of, aflive in building a new gaol 230 doubles allowance at a bridewell 231

Richmond (Yorkshire) 370

Rigby, Henrietta, her legacy 395

Abigail, ditto 396

Rippon 371

Liberty Gaol 371

Rivers, German prisons built near 73

Rochester City Gaol 228

Rome 91

Rotheram, Dr. physician, commended

383

Rothnatll 375

Rotterdam 55

Pest-houfo 59

Rouquet, Rev. Mr. commended 359

Rules should be hung up 42

hung at every door in a prison 121

in the chapel 127

in French prisons, how made known

Rules and orders of prisons,

Foreign 64, 65, 69, 70, 72, 89, 92, 101, 116, 1x6,121,127,131,133, 141, 143

English 180, 184, 206, 208, 209, *66, 347* 3CS

Rules or Liberty of a Prison 177, 206,

355* 38*. 4*

Ruthin County Gaol 413

Rutlandshire 293

Rye 232

S.

St. Albans Borough Gaol 218

- Liberty 218

- Bridewell 219

St. Briavel's Gaol 327

St. Catharine's Prison 200

St. Cross's hospital, dole of bread 331

St. George's Fields Bridewell 236

St. Omer's 152

St. Peter's Gaol, York 369

Salary raised for abolished fees 227

receipts given for more than received 327

Salisbury, lord, proprietor 218

Salisbury County Gaol 336

City 340

Salisbury, bishop of, proprietor 340

Savile, Sir George, his charity 365

Savoy 201

Scarsdale Hundred 278

Schaffhausen 113

Schools, parish, in Scotland 163

Schwabach 116

S cor but, a disease in French prisons 139,145

Scotch acts concerning prisons 162,163,164

prisoners, hard condition of at Carlisle 391

Scotland 162

Secrete chambers 87, 91, 103 described 103

Seldon, Laurence, and wife, their legacies 349

Separation of men and women necessary 28

of debtors and felons necessary 29

Sewer, want of in gaols 9

uncovered through a gaol 372

Sheffield, for Hallamshire 374

Town Gaol 375

Shepton-Mallet 358

Sherborn 343

Sheriff's officer keeper 236, 249, 259,

333* 358* 36,» 363> 368, 415

Sheriff of town, keeper 422

Sherwin, John, Esq. his charity 281

Shew,part of a prison so called 3 50

Shropshire 313

Shrewsbury County Gaol 313

Bridewell 316

Town Gaol 316

Situation proper for a prison 26 a good one rejected 268

Skeleton with chains, found 303

Slaves, humanity to 85

Tick, great attention 91, 9?,

ICO

INDEX

Small pox, fatal in gaols 163, 270, 30a, 3*3

Smith, Mr. his legacy 337

Soke, liberty, its extent 297

Gaol for 297

Solitude beneficial in prisons 27

Solitary cells, their effect on male* factors 174

Solo! burn III

SOMERSETSHIRE 356

Southampton Bar-gate 334

- Gaol 334

Bridewell 334

Southwark, Surry Gaol 233

Southwell Bridewell 282

Spalding Bridewell 289

Spandau 80

Spectator, quotation from 38

Spirituous liquors, fine on gaolers who sell them 41

fine on any who bring them 41

fine for not hanging up clauses against 42

not permitted, abroad 72, no, 123, 134

nfiances of clauses against not hung up (See Clauses]^ permitted in Scotch prisons 162

in Irish 16S

Stable should be made a day-room 254,

337. 356

Staffordshire 310

Stafford County Gaol 310

Bridewell 312

Staircase remarkable 96

Stamfori1 ?Q 1

Star-chambei prisoners, whither sent 177

State prisoners 80, 86, 93, 150

State-house, so called in King's Bench prison 205

Stepney manor, its extent 19S Stirling 162

Stone of disgrace- 87

Stove to every room in a prison 79,123

Stow's account (See Gaol distemper) Stra/burg,debtors aliment there 122

Straw, want of in prisons 10

paid for per load by county 251, 311 ordered by matron 251

Straw, plenty because not farmed 311 a legacy for it 365

Straw and bedding (See Bedding) Stream of water, beneficial in gaols 26,2S

Sudbury 263

Suffocation by brimstone pra&ifed 126

Suffolk 258

Sunday dinner, an encouragement 40

Sunday, no visiters admitted on 110 allowance on, to prevent working 248

Surgeon, his duty 35

excused from attending gaol fever in dungeons 344

Surry 233

Sussex 229

Swaffham Bridewell 252

Swanfiy 428

Switzerland 107

T.

Table, of regulations for French prisoners 433

fees due to clerks of assize 435

convicts, Janssen's 436

executions from Newgate during the last eight years 438 acquitted and discharged prisoners. Home Circuit 439

Oxford Circuit 440 condemned criminals,

Norfolk Circuit 442

Midland Circuit 443 transports delivered from Nc\vgatC444 convicts in Scotland 445 number of prisoners in England and Wales in 1779 446

Tap, should not be held by gaoler or turnkey 31 not held by gaolers in Ireland 33

Tapster holds rooms which he lets to prisoners 17S Tarras less retentive of feents than wood 88

floors 275, 285

Taunton County Bridewell 357 fatal alEze there 12

Taylor, Elizabeth, her legacy lofi 368

li

INDEX.

Tennis-court, improper in gaols 179, 206, 422

Thame Bridewell 304

Thanet, earl of, hereditary sheriff 392

Thetford 256

Thirsk 366

Thomson quoted in praise of Gaol-Commute 18

Thornhill, Mrs. her charity 365

Thynne, Thomas, Esq. his legacy 337

Tiffot, Dr. his opinion of our gaol distemper 108

Toes mortified in gaol 25, 197, 239

Torture disused 72, 75, 107 suffered 75, 124 a vile engine for 76 not practised in the Prussian dominions 78 rooms '87, 92, 109, 112, 114,115, 124, 126 described 114 dress for 126

Tothill-fieldt Bridewell 202

owel clean daily 331

Tower 172

Tower Hamlett Gaol 202

Town-clerk signs table of fees 335

Town-hall used by debtors 218

Transportation, Mr. Eden's opinion on 50

Transports, the contradors property 170 numerous in the Savoy, and occasioning disease 2C1 their fees paid by the county 225 had county bread, and king's allowance 225, 280 from quarter sessions allowed by county, a6 from assize by the king 229, 3x4 not the king's allowance 234, 299,

352> 379> 3S5» 39°> 394> 4C*» 42* kept long in prison 324, 385 almost stifled 350 chained to the floor for attempting escape 379 ditto for suspicion 385 clothed by county 386

Tiiefle 84

Truro 354

Tub, inconvenient to bathe in 279

Turfs, part of keeper's pay 374

---

Turin 105

Turnkeys, their number should be increased 19

- should not be prisoners 33

- numerous in French prisons 137

- have no fees in France 137

Turnstiles and low gates at French prisons 137

U.

Unhealthiness, a cause of 85

Usk County Bridewell 322

Utrecht 71

V.

Vagrant act 17th George II. quoted 43, 46

Varying towns where assizes are held, a grievance 19

Venice 86

Ventilators necessary in gaols 29

in gaols 192, 225, 242, 306,310, 313

- salary for keeping in order 306

Vermin, a prisoner disfigured by 372

Verses over debtors grate 299

Vienna 82

Vilain, Count, his book 135

Vilforde large prison there 129

Visitants keep prisoners from chape) 35

- not admitted on Sunday (See Sunday)

W.

Wakefield 366

Wall, distant from the prison 88, 93, 103, 206, 217

Wallingford 301

Walsingham 253

Walter, John Rolle, Esq. proprietor 344

Warrington Bridewell 399

Warwickshire 264

Warwick County Gaol 264

- Bridewell 267

Washing wards daily, not dangerous 37

Water, want of in prisons 8

- cold, effect of in gaol fever 28, 216

- should be freely accessible 38

- paid for by keeper (See Gaoler)

- instances where not accessible 217, 218, 219, 222, 223, 226, 228, 231, 232, 240, 242, 248, 249, 252, 253, 256, 257, 260, 261, 262, 264, 267, 272, 277, 278, 284, 286, 288, 289, 290, 291, 296, 297, 298, 300, 301, 305, 312, 317, 319, 322, 325, 327, 334, 339, 340, 343, 348, 351, 354, 360, 363, 369, 370, 371, 372, 373, 374, 375, 381, 384, 385, 388, 389, 392, 396, 407, 412, 415, 417, 418, 419, 420, 421, 422, 425, 428

Weights, leaden, fastened to refractory prisoners 407

Well, grand one in a French prison 146

Wells, assize, no prison 356

Westminster 201

- charity, applied to prisoners 187

Westmorland 391

West-Wycomb 240

Weymouth, lord, pays a legacy 337

White, Sir Thomas, his legacy 318

White, alderman of York, his charity 365

Whitechapel Prison 198

Whitehaven Town Gaol 391

White Lion Prison, an ancient name 234

White-washing in foreign houses of correction 52, 55, 83

White-washing &c. before late act 359

- practised 338, 359, 395

Wickedness in prisons, and spread from them 13, 44

Wild beasts drawing a waggon, bas relief of 63, 122

Williamson, Sir Hedworth, perpetual sheriff 378

Wiltshire 336

Winchcomb 327

Winchester County Gaol 330

- Bridewell 332

- Prison for debtors 334

- College allowance 331

- bishop of, proprietor 334

Windows, high ones proper 45, 104, 194, 367

- gaoler's, looking to felons court 222, 276

- to the street improper 260

Window-tax, one cause of close rooms 9

Windsor Castle Prison 301

- Town Gaol 301

Wisbeach Bridewell 249

Witches, dungeons for 114, 226

Witney Bridewell 305

Wives and children in prisons 21

- in no foreign prisons 53, 77, 128

- in the Fleet 179

- in Poultry Compter 187

- in Wood-street Compter 189

- in King's Bench 206

Wolverhampton Bridewell 312

Women-debtors, in separate rooms 375

- not separated from men though many rooms 389

Women-felons should be separate from men 28

- in foreign houses of correction cleanly 55,68

- ironed 81

- keep foreign prisons clean 122

- separated from men in French prisons 139

- separated from men in Bridewell 191, 196, 230, 236, 237.

- modest, complain of bad companions 212

- many, yet prison dirty 347

Woodbridge Bridewell 260

Wooden bars, obstruct air 224

Wood-street Compter 189

Woollen manufacture in Dutch houses of correction 53

- manufacturer keeper of Bridewell 305, 347, 387

Worcestershire 306

Worcester Castle 306

- Bridewell 307

- City Gaol 308

Work in bridewells necessary (See Employment)

- not ordered by warrant 45, 237

- constant, yet prison not maintained by it (See Bridewells)

Work-house at Amsterdam 67

- commended 262, 272, 393, 398

Work-house &c. farmed 305

Work-rooms, two for men in a bridewell 222

- 1s. a week for use of 262

Work-shop in gaols 30

Wrexham County Bridewell 414

Wurtzburg 118

Wymundham Bridewell 252

Y.

Yarmouth Gaol 256

Yarmouth Bridewell 257

Yorkshire 362

York Castle 362

York City Gaol 367

York City Bridewell 369

York, St. Peter's Gaol (See St. Peter's)

York, archbishop of, prison for his manors in Nottinghamshire 282

York, archbishop of, proprietor 371

Yorke, Sir Joseph, his polite assistance 69, 73

Z.

Zell 76

Zurich 112

THE END.

DIRECTIONS to the BOOK-BINDER.

The Plates are to be inserted as follows:

Page

General Plan of a County Gaol, — to face 27.

Plan of Window Blinds, — 45.

Breda, House of Correction, — 73.

Rome, Front of the Prison — 91.

Rome, House of Correction, — 95.

Milan, House of Correction, — 104.

Bern, Employment of Criminals, two Plates, — 109.

Ghent, La Maison de Force, — 132.

Bastille, — 147.

Newgate, — 173.

