AN

ACCOUNT

OF THE PRINCIPAL

LAZARETTOS

IN

EUROPE &c.

AN

ACCOUNT

OF THE PRINCIPAL

LAZARETTOS

IN

EUROPE;

WITH VARIOUS PAPERS RELATIVE TO THE

PLAGUE:

TOGETHER WITH FURTHER OBSERVATIONS ON SOME

FOREIGN PRISONS and HOSPITALS;

AND ADDITIONAL REMARKS

ON THE PRESENT STATE OF THOSE IN

GREAT BRITAIN and IRELAND.

By JOHN HOWARD, F. R. S.

"O let the sorrowful sighing of the PRISONERS come before thee."

WARRINGTON,

PRINTED BY WILLIAM EYRES;

AND SOLD BY T. CADELL, J. JOHNSON, C. DILLY, AND J. TAYLOR, IN LONDON.

MDCCLXXXIX.

NIHIL EST TAM REGIUM, TAM LIBERALE, TAMQUE MUNIFICUM,

QUAM OPEM FERRE SUPPLICIBUS,

EXCITARE AFFLICTOS, DARE SALUTEM,

LIBERARE PERICULIS HOMINES.

CICERO.

CONTENTS.

Page

Introduction - 1

SECTION I.

AN ACCOUNT OF THE PRINCIPAL LAZARETTOS IN EUROPE - 3

SECT. II.

PROPOSED REGULATIONS AND A NEW PLAN FOR A LAZARETTO - 23

SECT. III.

PAPERS RELATIVE TO THE PLAGUE - 32

SECT. IV.

AN ACCOUNT OF FOREIGN PRISONS AND HOSPITALS - 52.

SECT. V.

SCOTCH PRISONS AND HOSPITALS - 75.

SECT. VI.

IRISH PRISONS AND HOSPITALS - 78.

SECT. VII.

CHARTER SCHOOLS IN IRELAND - 101.

CONTENTS

SECT. VIII.

Page

ENGLISH PRISONS AND HOSPITALS - 124.

HULKS ON THE THAMES - 216.

REMARKS ON PENITENTIARY HOUSES - 220.

REMARKS ON THE GAOL-FEVER - 231.

CONCLUSION - 233.

TABLES - 239.

I take the liberty of suggesting, that if I should be spared to finish another foreign journey, which I have in view, I propose then to publish an Appendix to this work; which I here mention, as some Gentlemen may choose to bind them up together.

INTRODUCTION.

---

IN my latest tours, I had with pain observed, that notwithstanding the regulations which had been made in our own country, and elsewhere, for preserving health in prisons and hospitals, yet that infectious diseases continued occasionally to arise and spread in them. I had also been led, by the view of several lazarettos in my travels, to consider how much all trading nations are exposed to that dreadful scourge of mankind which those struftures are intended to prevent, and to reflect how very rude and imperfect our own police was with respect to this object. It likewift (truck me, that establishments, effectual for the prevention of the most infectious of all dileafes, must afford many useful hints for guarding against the propagation of contagious distempers in general. These various considerations induced me, in the last edition of I’he State of the Prtfons &c. to express a wilh, “ that some future traveller would give us plans of the lazarettos at Leghorn, Ancona and other places.” At length I determined to procure these plans, and acquire all the necessary information respecting them, myself: and towards the end of the year 1785, I went abroad for the purpose of visiting the principal lazarettos in France and Italy. To the physicians employed in them, I proposed a set of queries respecting the nature and prevention of the plague; but their answers not affording satisfactory instruction, I proceeded to Smyrna and Constantinople. For, although the subjects of the Turkish empire be little enlightened by the modern improvements in arts and sciences, I conceived that from their intimate acquaintance with the disease in question, and from the great difference between their customs and manners, and ours, some practices might be found among them, and some information gained, not unworthy the notice of more polished nations. I also pleased myself with the idea, not only of learning, but of being able to communicate somewhat to the inhabitants of these distant regions, if they should

INTRODUCTION.

have curiosity enough to inquire, and liberality to adopt the methods of treating and of preventing contagious diseases which had been found most successful among ourselves.

Such were my views. That merciful Providence which had hitherto preserved me, was pleased to extend its protection to me in this journey also.

One consequence of my inquiries has been a full conviction of the importance, to this country, of properly-constituted lazarettos; and this, too, for commercial realbns, of which, I confeis, I had before no idea. The circumstances from which I drew this conclusion will be found in their proper places in the narrative; for I shall in this publication, as I did in my former ones, confine myself chiefly to the narration of fasts. What attention these facts deserve, and what measures it may be adviseable to adopt in consequence of them, I leave to the determination of the proper judges.

Upon my return from the Levant, I was solicitous to know what improvements had been made in our prisons during my absence, and how far the numerous abuses and defects which I had laid before the public had been redressed. Therefore, after visiting the X.ondon prisons and the Hulks, I went to Ireland, and, returning by way of Scotland, travelled over a great part of England.

It is not my intention to transcribe my whole journal, and minutely relate all I saw. When I first printed my review of prisons, a particular and explicit account seemed necessary, on a subject so new to the public, and where so many things wanted alteration. Many changes for the better have been made, and are still making, of which I shall gladly give the reader an account; and it will be my duty also to note what I have found still needing reformation. Of thele two parts of my business, I beg it may be believed, that with reluctance I censure, but commend with pleasure.

LAZARETTOS.

LAZARETTOS.

SECTION I.

AN ACCOUNT OF THE

PRINCIPAL LAZARETTOS IN EUROPE.

1 HE first Lazaretto I visited was at Marseilles. The Health-office, Le Bureau de Sante, is in the city at the end of the port. It has an outer room and two council chambers. In the outer room, the depositions of captains of ships are taken, who come in their boats to an iron grate. At two feet distance there is an iron lattice with a door, which is opened only by the servants of the intendants, or directors, who are here in waiting, in a blue livery trimmed with white lace. Here also letters, or orders for supplies, from the captains who are performing quarantine in their ships, are received with a pair of iron tongs, and dipped in a bucket of vinegar Handing ready for that purpose. Over the book in which the depositions of the captains are inserted for public view, there is hung up an advertisement, to desire that the leaves may not be torn, and if they be torn, that information may be given to the office. In this room were hung up also orders, that when captains are examined, none but those who belong to the office shall be present; and that captains of merchant-ships, who have no bills of health, shall be obliged themselves to perform quarantine in the lazaretto.

In the first of the two council chambers, there were hung up a flan of the lazaretto, and the piflure of a person dying of the plague} also the names of the directors, and the weeks of their attendance. Two or more of them are present every day to take the depositions of the captains as they arrive, to fix the guards and porters, and for the other business of this extensive lazaretto.

The lazaretto is on an elevated rock near the city, at the end of the bay, fronting the south-wefi, and commands the entrance of the harbour. It is very spacious, and its

B i situation

Mar-

seilles

Health-

Office.

Laza-

retto.

situation renders it very commodious for the great trade which tire French carry on in the Levant. Among other apartments for passengers, there are twenty-four large rooms, of which some are above stairs, and open into a spacious gallery enclosed by lattice. In these rooms are clolets for beds, which the passengers and guards are required to bring with them. The guards are sent by the Health-office, and their number is regulated by the number of passengers of each ship who perform quarantine. A number of passengers not exceeding three, are allowed one guard, the expenfo of whom (namely twenty foils per day and his victuals) they are obliged to bear. A passenger, therefore, who has no companion, has no assistance in bearing this expense. To four, five, or fix passengers, two guards are assigned; and to seven, three guards. Thefo guards perform the offices of servants; and will cook for passengers, if they do not choose to have their victuals from the tavern.

Within the lazaretto, is the governor’s house; and a chapel, in which divine forvice is regularly performed; as also a tavern, from which persons under quarantine may have their dinners and flippers sent them, and which has likewise the exclusive privilege of supplying them with wine. Two days before the quarantine is finiflted, the bills are sent in, which being paid to tire cashier, they receive a clean patent.*

The quarantine of passengers who come with a foul bill, or in one of the two first ships from the same place with a clean bill, is thirty-one days, including the day they go out. If any account arrive of the plague having broke out in the place from which they came with a clean bill, after they left it, they are allowed no advantage from their clean bill; for, in this case, they must be confined fifteen days, and also fumigated j- before they come down stairs, and are permitted to go to the parloirs. In case any of the company to which they belong die, their quarantine recommences.

The parloirs are long galleries with feats in them, situated between the gates, and foparated by wooden balustrades and wire lattice, beyond which there are other balustrades, distant about ten feet, at which the persons in quarantine may fee and converse with such friends as may choofo to viflt them. The wires are intended to prevent any thing from being handed to them, or from them. And that nothing may be thrown over, and no escapes be made, there is a double wall round the lazaretto.

At the gate there is a bell to call any person in this enclosure; and by the number and other modifications of the strokes, every individual knows when he is called.

The ships are moored at the isle of Pomeque, where a governor resides, and other officers to keep the crews of ships in order, and prevent them from having any

* If bills are overcharged, there are magistrates in the city who fhculd examine and tax them: but these ma-giilrares do r.ot always tlifeharge their duty. The chaplain of the Dutch consul at Smyrna applied to them, as many others have done, without obtaining redress.

f The fumigation is three times repeated, at the expense of nine livres, and by many is thought unnecessary. It was not used in the lazarettos at Vtnht.

communication.

Sect. I.

LAZARETTOS.

S

communication.* From thence, goods are conveyed to the lazaretto in large boats kept for that purpose. Cottons with a foul bill must remain on deck six days; and the next six days, the first bales mull remain on the bridge in the lazaretto, before any others can be received by the porters; after this, the cargo of that ship is brought in. But if the ship have a clean bill, it is unloaded much quicker, and subject only to twenty days quarantine: unless it be one of the two first ships, or there have been an account that the plague had broke out after it had failed from the port where it was loaded, in which case, it is obliged to perform quarantine as before said of passengers. And if the plague be in other cities of the Levant, five days are added to the twenty days of the quarantine: this the French call pied de mouche. The bales of cotton are exposed to the open air; and every ten days, a seam of the bags is opened. Precious goods are placed in ware-houses with open balustrades for the air to pass freely.J

At Genoa, the lazaretto is situated on the sea Ihore, near the city, and detached from other buildings. The plan is regular; the centre-row equally dividing the areas, which are three hundred and ten feet by twenty-five. In the middle of one of the areas there is a little chapel, which has three fides open, that the elevation of the host may be lecn in the opposite rooms.

At the entrance there is a guard-room for ten soldiers, and a spacious bake-house. Towards the areas arc many vaulted rooms for passengers, which open into a corridor, where there are doors to separate the passengers of different ships. These rooms are

Marseilles

Lazaretto.

GEfTOA

Lazaretto.

* Sometimes the governor is obliged to fend some of the French sailors to the prison in the lazaretto, because, having no pay during their quarantine, they are often quarrelsome.

f The porters are, in like manner with the guards, sent by the office, as ships arrive. Their number is proportioned to the cargo; and four are allowed to a common ship.

X The French in every ship have a secretary, who always performs his quarantine on (bore, and fees that none of the effects of different persons are mixed or embezzled by the porters. He some times acts as dottor, and is otherwise useful on board. Such a secretary I also found in a Triejle ship.

The admission of persons to id fit the lazaretto at Marfeilks is jiriftly prohibited: but I have the pleasure of giving the first engraved plan of it. See plate I. The scale is of French feet. And as I shall have occasion in other plans to mention the feet of different countries, I here give their proportions.

If the French foot be divided into 1440 equal parts;

The foot

in England ^S1

at Amsterdam IZ58

Bern 0 0 ro

Florence Z44O.95

in Greece' is 1360

at Rome I306

in Spain Iz4°

at Venice 1540

Vienna 1401.3

fifteen

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. I.

fifteen feet and seven inches, by fourteen feet, three inches, and eleven feet and a half high. The corridor is ten feet and nine inches wide, and is separated from the areas by high wooden palifides. Above stairs there are thirty-six rooms in front, besides twelve be-

longing to the prior or governor. On one fide there are eleven, and on the other, ten rooms. All the rooms are nearly similar in length and breadth, about sixteen feet, nine inches, by fourteen feet, nine, and eleven feet, fix inches high; with two opposite windows, about four feet by three, and fix feet above the floor. The windows of all the rooms are too small. The floors are brick, and the roofs vaulted. Each room has in one corner, a chimney, and in another, a fewer shut in like a closet. These rooms open into a corridor eleven feet wide, which has spacious windows towards the areas, and doors which can Ihut up three or four rooms according to the number of passengers from each ship. All the windows have iron bars and flutters, but none are glazed. Adjoining to the back of the governor’s apartments is a neat and convenient chapel. When a considerable number are confined by sickness, the chaplain resides in the governor’s apartments; and then the physician and surgeon are also obliged to reside in their rooms, at the corner of one of the areas.

On the second floor there are ranges of warehouses. These are too narrow, being only sixteen feet and a half wide; and the windows are too small, being, on one fide, only two feet square; and on the other, three feet, by two feet, nine inches. The floors are of Hone; but such floors are improper; white bricks, well burnt, being best for goods, because less apt to become damp. To these warehouses there are spacious brick afeents on the outside, on which bales of cotton are opened and aired. The doors are Angle; but large folding doors would have been better; and there should have been a small partition in each of the warehouses, that the porters might pass with less danger of infection. The tlaircafes in the inside leading to these warehouses, and to those on the first floor, are likewise too narrow, being only three feet and a half wide.

In the centre, behind the chapel, there are two spacious rooms, one hundred and twenty-five feet by twenty-five. The afeent for bales is good, being ten feet wide; but the door way is only four feet wide. These would make good rooms for the sick; being fresh and airy, and having each twenty windows, with shutters to them, and without glass.

There are in the front three towers, or elevated rooms. That in the middle is called the governor’s, because it adjoins to his apartments. From the windows he has a full view of both the areas and corridors. But this lazaretto derives a peculiar advantage from a fine spring of water which comes from the mountains, and contributes much to its falutarinefs. The channel is full fix feet wide at its entrance into the area, and this renders it very convenient for walhing linen. Being also properly conducted through all the sewers, it prevents the rooms from being olFenfive.

There are three prison-rooms, intended for riotous sailors who may be sent from the quarantine ships, and for the guards and porters, should they happen to be disorderly,

or

Sect. 1. LAZARETTOS.

or guilty of embezzlement. The chief punishment is solitary confinement; and these rooms are not ill suited to this purpose.* See plates 11. III.-f-

Another lazaretto, belonging to the Genoese, is fituatedon a rising ground at Varignano, near the gulf or noble port of Spezia. Here ships ride safe in fourteen feet of water, and have every convenience for landing their cargoes. Having been minute in my account of the lazaretto at Genoa, 1 will give no description of this. The plan and views of it will give sufficient information concerning it.J See plates IV. V. VI.

At Leghorn there are three lazarettos. One of them is new. I was there in 1778, and saw forty-seven fiaves employed in building it. || Ships which have the plague on board are now received here, and not chafed away or burnt, as is practised in too many places. The greatest attention is given both to the health and convenience of the passengers, and the merchandise is kept in the exafteft order. This lazaretto is called San Leopoldo, in compliment to the present Grand Duke; and at the upper end of one of the courts is placed his statue. The repeated visits I have paid to his prisons, hospitals, &c. have given me the fulleft conviction that he is the true father and friend of his country.

The very worthy governor of the city, Federigo Bariolaiii, did me the favour to accompany me to this new lazaretto, and to that of San Rocco. He also favoured me with the plans of the three lazarettos (two of which 1 have copied, plates VII. Vlll.) and with the regulations, &c. which He published in quarto 1785, entitled, Ordini di Sanita. The Grand Duke, hefore the publication of these regulations, had sent a person to the Levant, on purpose to gain information by returning from thence and performing quarantine at Marseilles, and there making the most careful observations. Our

ambassador at Constantinople, Sir Robert Ainflie,% told me, that the lazarettos at Leghorn are the bell in Europe. This was confirmed to me by two gentlemen who had

performed quarantine both there, and at Marseilles,

* This lazaretto has a double wall like that at Marseilles. Between the walls there is a burying-ground for Protestants, but no tomb-stones or inferiptions are allowed. Here our late consul Mr. Halford was interred. And while I was at Genoa, a Scotch sailor died in the great hospital, who continuing to the last Heady in his religious principles, was buried here.

Adjoining to this lazaretto there is a Ipacious garden which formerly belonged to it, but was sold by the magi (bates on the condition, that if any epidemical sickness should happen to prevail in the city, and the ground be wanted for tents, &c. it shall be returned to the lazaretto.

t This plate and the remaining ones referred to in this page, as they could not all be conveniently inserted here, will be found at the end of the book.

I My peculiar thanks are justly due to the very worthy magistrates of Genoa, for their kind permission to fee their lazarettos, and to copy the plans; and for the regulations which they gave me.

fl See State of Prisons, third edit. p. ing.

f I cannot mention the name of Sir Robert Ainflic without expressing the sense I have of my obligations to him for his kind adiilance, and the generous offer he made me of a residence at his house, when I was at Coijlantinople.

Genoa.

Spezia

Laza-

retto.

Leghorn

Laza-

rettos.

The

wfZ

s

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. I.

Naples.

Malta

Quaran-

tine.

Lazaretto.

The lazaretto at N aples is very small, and I am informed that too little attention is paid there to passengers and shipping, under quarantine. I have therefore only given a view of the health-office.* See plate IX.

At Malta there are two kinds of quarantine performed: one by ships with clean bilk of health, and the other by ships with foul bills. The first, called the petty quarantine, lasts eighteen days, and the ships which perform it lie at the entrance of the port near the health-office. In order to enable the passengers and crews, without producing danger, to buy provisions and converse with their friends, there are enclosures separated by Hone polls, with rails and palilades; and two soldiers Rationed to prevent any improper communication.

Here, forne of the ships from the Morea, and other places, unload their grain. At a little distance there is a church, situated on high ground, and intended for the accommodation of tire persons who perform this quarantine. A letter brought by a strip just arrived from Turkey, was, I saw, received with a pair of iron tongs, dipped in vinegar, and then put into a case, and laid for about a quarter of an hour on wire grates, under which draw and perfumes had been burnt: after which the case was opened, and the letter taken out by one of the directors of the office. And this is the usual method of receiving letters here.

The other, called the great quarantine, is performed at a lazaretto which is situated on a peninsula near the city. On the most elevated part of this peninsula is Fort Manuel: the lazaretto, being on the shore, is less airy. Additions have been made to it at different times. The old part is inconvenient, and too close to admit of a proper ventilation of cottons and other merchandise. It has sixteen rooms on two floors. On the higher floor there are eight, which open into a balcony, and have opposite windows: but all were very dirty.

In the other part of this building there are two courts, with rooms and sheds much more convenient for passengers, and airy for merchandise. Both these courts are one hundred and one feet by sixty-three. Two other buildings and a chapel were just begun; and these erections, when finished, will make the lazaretto capable of allowing a proper separation of the cargoes of six or seven ships on quarantine together.

At the end of the lazaretto there is a large court, with stone troughs for beads, which often come from the Barbary coast. At the upper part of this court, on a pleasant rising ground, there are several large and good sheds, with stone mangers, and two or three rooms over them.

There is here a burying ground, where there seemed to have been some recent burials; and also a place for burning the bodies of such as die of the plague.

• The lazaretto at Mejfnta is on an island near the city, of which I had a full view at Sea. I did not visit it, because this city is almoll depopulated, and its trade destroyed by the late dreadful earthquakes: but being formerly a place of great trade, I was glad of an opportunity, by favour of our consul Mr. Green, to copy the plan of the lazaretto, which I found hung up in the health-office at Trie/te. See plates X. XI.

The

Sect. I.

LAZARETTOS.

9

The greatest care is taken to destroy infection should there be any. Ships with foul Malta. bills are required to perform quarantine eighty days: but at the end of forty days they may change their station, and the captains are allowed to come on shore. The different kinds of goods are separated, and placed in proper order under cover. The cottons are taken out of the bags containing them, and placed in rows of piles, upon boards laid on stone pillars about eighteen inches from the floors; and in repacking they are flung over a man who gets into the bags, in order to tread down the cotton; the consequence of which mull be exposing him to great danger should any infection remain. This, though the surest way of expelling infection from cotton, is not the most agreeable to merchants, not only because more expensive, but also for the following reason. The bales of cotton, in conveying them on camels to the sea-ports, are often taken off on the roads, and laid in wet and dirty places where their outsides are injured. In consequence of being taken to pieces and repacked in the lazaretto in the manner now described, the injured parts get among the inner parts, and the cotton acquires the appearance of being wholly damaged; and, therefore, is rendered less marketable. — These are observations which three large English ships performing quarantine while I was here gave me an opportunity of making.

The health-office at Zante is in the city at die water fide. In this office the depofi- Zanti. tions are taken from the captains as they arrive. If they come from the Levant, or from the Barbary coast, they perform forty-two days quarantine; if from the Morea, only twenty-one days; if from any other part, they and the passengers are generally permitted to pass through the office into the city, as I did when I arrived here from Malta. Three gentlemen in this office give daily attendance for one year without salary or emolument.

The old lazaretto * is distant about half a mile from the city, and situated on a rising ground near the sea. The merchandise is brought hither in a large boat belonging to the office, and rowed by the crew of the ffiip under quarantine; a smaller boat of the office attending at some distance. The entrance is by a covered gate-way ten feet wide, and convenient for the admission of packages. On one fide there is a room for the guard confiding of a corporal and four soldiers, on the other, a room for the fub-prior. The prior himself resides in the rooms over the gate-way, and is appointed by the directors of the health-office at Venice.

Between the outer and inner-gate one of the guards at night commands the middle court, the gate into it being palifaded. This Cc. -t is about one hundred and thirty feet long and thirty-five wide. The doors of the other courts (three on each fide) open into this. On one fide they are chiefly designed for passengers, and in each there are four

* There is another called the nciv lazaretto, which is appropriated to a numerous body of peasants, who pass over to the Morea to work in harveli time: on their return they perform here a seven days quarantine; and at this time, other persons from the Morea perform only fourteen days quarantine in the old lazaretto.

c

rooms.

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. I.

rooms, one of which having a fire-place is called the kitchen *. On the other fide there are large, deep, open Iheds for goods, with a partition wall. In each of these courts there is a well of water.

At the farther end there is a finall paved court, a little elevated above the other courts. On one fide of it, there is a neat enclosed garden belonging to Roman Catholic friars, who have a convent at a little distance; and on the other fide, a chapel in which three of the friars officiate,- and also a Greek chapel. — I am the more particular in the description of this lazaretto, as its situation and general plan (truck me as affording some good ideas for the construction of a house of correction.

The lazaretto at Corfu is finely situated on a rock surrounded with water, about a league from the city. The lazaretto of Castel-Novo in Dalmatia is on the shore about two miles from the city. At the back of it there is a delightful hill, which belongs to a convent of friars. Persons in quarantine, after a few days are allowed to walk there, and divert themselves with shooting, &c. But, being in a ship with a foul bill, I could not fee either of these lazarettos. Their officers are dependent on the health-office at Venice, and their regulations are similar.

After visiting the lazarettos now described, I failed to Smyrna, and from thence to Constantinople. Here I had once intended to travel by land to Vienna. This is a journey capable of being easily performed in twenty-four days, no quarantine being now required to be performed at Semlin, the place on the confines of the Emperor’s Hungarian dominions, where formerly travellers used to be detained for this purpose. But on farther consideration I determined to leek an opportunity of performing quarantine myjelf; and with this view to submit to the inconveniences of a sea-voyage to Venice, the place where lazarettos were first established. And, in order to obtain the belt information by performing the drifted: quarantine, I farther determined to return to Smyrna, and there to take my passage in a ship with a foul bill. Contrary winds and other causes made this a tedious and dangerous voyage, and it was sixty days from the time of leaving Smyrna before I arrived at Venice.

Here, after our ship had been conducted by a pilot-boat to her proper moorings, a messenger came from the health-office for the captain t and I went with him in his boat to fee the manner in which his report was made, his letters delivered, and his examination conducted. The following morning a messenger came in a gondola to conduct me to the new lazaretto. I was placed, with my baggage, in a boat fattened by a cord ten feet long to another boat in which were fix rowers. When I came near the landing-place, the cord was loosed, and my boat was pushed with a pole to the shore, where a person met me, who Arid he had been ordered by the magistrates to be my guard. Soon after

* Here the late Mr. Montague performed his quarantine; after which he resided for some time in the convent of the friars. But there being an earthquake while he was there, he afterwards lived in a tent in the garden of these friars, and would never enter a house on the Land.

unloading

Sect. I.

LAZARETTOS.

unloading the boat, the fub-prior came and shewed me my lodging, which was a very dirty room, full of vermin, and without table, chair, or bed. That day and the next morning I employed a person to wash my room: but this did not remove the offensiveness of it, or prevent that constant head-ach which I had been used to feel in visiting other lazarettos, and some of the hospitals in Turkey. This lazaretto is chiefly assigned to Turks and soldiers, and the crews of those ships which have the plague on board. In one of the enclosures was the crew of a Ragufian ship, which had arrived a few days before me, after being driven from Ancona and Trieste. My guard sent a report of my health to the office, and on the vepresentation of our consul, I was conducted to the old lazaretto which is nearer the city. Having brought a letter to the prior from the Venetian am-baffador at Constantinople, I hoped now to have had a comfortable lodging. But I was not so happy. The apartment appointed me (confiding of an upper and a lower room) was no less disagreeable and offensive than the former. I preferred lying in the lower room on a brick floor where I was almost surrounded with water. After six days, however, the prior removed me to an apartment in some respects better, and consisting of four rooms. Here I had a pleasant view; but the rooms were without furniture, very dirty, and no less offensive than the sick wards of the worst hospital. The walls of my chamber, not having been cleaned probably for half a century, were saturated with infection. I got them washed repeatedly with boiling water, to remove the offensive smell, but without any effect. My appetite failed, and I concluded I was in danger of the flow hospital-fever. I proposed white-waflring my room with lime flacked in boiling water, but was opposed by strong prejudices. I got, however, this done one morning through the assistance of the British consul, who was so good as to supply me with a quarter of a bushel of fresh lime for the purpose. And the consequence was, that my room was immediately rendered so sweet and frelli, that I was able to drink tea in it in the afternoon, and to lie in it the following night *. On the next day the walls were dry as well as sweet, and in a few days I recovered my appetite. Thus, at a small expense, and to the admiration of the other inhabitants of this lazaretto, I provided for myself and successors, an agreeable and wholesome room, instead of a nasty and contagious one.

Over the gate-ways of two large rooms or warehouses, were carved in stone the images of three faints, (San Sebaftiano> San Marco, and San Rocco) reckoned the patrons of this lazaretto. Formerly, when persons who had the plague were brought from the city, they

‘ This room was lime-whited in November, and in a very rainy season. This 1 mention, because in the following March on complaining to the under-sheriffs in Neuigale of their inattention to the clause which orders tins in the Act of Parliament for securing the health of prisoners, their excuse was, that they were afraid of dampness, which seemed to me as reasonable as it would be not to allow towels for those whose feet, hands and face are dirty, left by washing them they should catch cold.

C i were

11

Venice.

T-

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. I.

Ven ice. were put into one of these rooms for forty days, and afterwards into the other for the same time, before they were discharged *.

Rules. The Rules and ‘Tariffs of the other lazarettos in Europe having been evidently formed from those established at Venice, I shall be more particular in my account of the regulations here for performing quarantine.

Health- office. The following account has been, for the nioft part, copied from the Jketch of an information lent to our government in 1770, the perulal of which I owe to the favour of Mr. Richie our consul at Venice. I carefully examined this Iketch during my quarantine of forty-two days, and I have here given it with a few correflions and observations. The health-office at Venice was instituted by decree of the senate in the year 1448, in the midst of a very dehruftive pestilence, and afterwards confirmed and regulated by various subsequent decrees, till reduced to the excellent order in which it {lands at present. This important office is governed by three commissioners, annually chosen by the senate, whole duty it is to attend every day to the business of the office; and to them are added two assistant commissioners, and two extraordinary, who have formerly lerved as junior commissioners, or are gentlemen of wisdom and experience: these last take their feats at the board when they think it requisite, or when cases of difficulty and danger require their counsel. The power or authority of this court is very extensive; for, when all the seven magistrates fit together, their judgments are decisive and without appeal, as well in civil as criminal affairs that relate to public health, all which fall under their cognizance; by which means this court is one of the moll respectable in the government, and accordingly is always filled by persons of approved integrity and reputation, and in easy circumstances, in order to be less exposed to corruption, as their emoluments are very small, although it is a step towards more lucrative employments. — I shall not enter into an elaborate description of every particular circumstance relative to this office, only so far as is necessary to form an idea of its regulations and order in the expurgation of merchandile, or passengers coming from places suspedled of pestilential infection. I shall therefore first take notice of the office itl'elf, the duty and authority of its magistrates, &c. and afterwards luccedively give a particular account of the lazarettos, priors of the lazarettos, guardians of health, messengers, porters, the method of receiving captains of snips from suspected parts, taking their reports, quarantine of passengers, and expurgation of goods in the lazaretto; taking notice occasionally of other circumstances of less moment, which have a relation to, or connexion with those above mentioned.

[ ' Many of the windows in these rooms, and also in some- other ancient pell-hotlfes which I have seen, are now bricked up. Tins shews, that in the last century, physicians were fenftble of the importance of fresh air, and a free circulation of it in ftek wards. A different practice, particularly in the small-poi' and the gaol-fever, was afterwards adopted by medical gentlemen; but we seem now to be returning to the ancient and more salutary practice. Formerly also, it seems probable that men did not entertain titofe absurd prejudices against the free life of water in washing thtmselves and their rooms, which are now prevalent; for, in several of the old pefi-houses, I have observed the matks of a greater attention to the means of gaining plenty of water than has been thought necessary in many of the hospitals built within these ftfty years. The

\

«3T:

Sect. I.

LAZARETTOS.

13

The court is always attended by a secretary, who is a notary public, advocate fiscal, and several clerks, who are for life or during good behaviour, and have their respective salaries. The priors of the lazarettos are l'ubje&ed to this board, as are the guardians of health, and messengers, whose particular duties I shall afterwards describe. It maintains overseers in different parts of the city to inspect the provisions fold in the public markets, drops or otherwise, who make their report of whatever they find that might have a tendency to affect the public health; their business is also to superintend beggars, to prevent loathsome and noxious distempers being derived from want and misery, or other obvious causes; they keep an exact register of deaths, and the bodies of those who die without any previous malady, are accurately examined by the physician and surgeon immediately belonging to the office; both these have a fixed salary, and are consulted by the board in cases relating to their respective pro-fe/Tions; they are allb obliged in contagious emergencies to Ihut themselves up in the lazaretto to take care of the lick *.

The city of Venice has two lazarettos appropriated to the expurgation of merchandise susceptible of infection, coming from suspected parts, and for the accommodation of passengers in performing quarantine; as also for the reception of persons and effects infected in the unhappy times of pestilence. The old lazaretto is two miles, and the new about five miles distant from the city, both on little islands, separated from all communication, not only by broad canals surrounding them, but also by high walls; they are of large extent, being about four hundred geometrical paces in circumference. They have only a ground floor and one over it, and are divided and subdivided into a great number of apartments, greater and linaller, for the reception of passengers; all these apartments have their separate entries and stairs, and every range of them has an open court in front, with plats of grass which is not fullered to grow too high, and no kind of trees 01 vegetables are permitted within this distridl, nor within a good distance from it. There are iheds again!! some of the walls, and in other proper places (but not mixed with the apartments of passengers) so contrived that the merchandise is not exposed to damage by rain or otherwise, and at the same time, that the air is not confined. A more minute description tvould be tedious, and as the plan of the old lazaretto may be seen (in flats XII.), is not necessary.

The internal government and direction of these lazarettos is committed in each to an officer called a Prior, who is chosen by the board of health, and accountable to it alone for his management; he has an afilstant chosen by himself, and confirmed by the magistrates; both these have a competent salary, and are obliged to reside in the lazaretto, where a convenient habitation is assigned them. The priorship is an office of great trust, and the ma-

* Beiides the health-office at Venice, every city or town of any note or commerce has one of its own, upon the fame plan as that of the metropolis, directed by gentlemen of the place not concerned in trade, who serve gratis, and think it an honour to watch over the health of their fellow-citizens; the necessary mini dors and clerks are paid by the respective communities; and all these courts of health are dependent on that of Venice, and accountable to it in every respect. See Zante.

Venice.

Lazaret-

tos.

Prior’s

Duty.

gistrates

'4

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. I.

Venice, gistrates are careful to confer it upon none but such as are suitably qualified; he mufl: not be related to any in the magistracy, nor to any of its ministers; rrmft have no interest or concern in shipping, nor in trade; and in tire exercise of his office he is subjected to the strictest rules, the most material of which are as follow.

Rules. He mufl: fee all the gates and doors of the different apartments locked every evening by sun-set, as well the outward gates as those of the apartments occupied by passengers, merchandise, and porters; he takes the keys into his possession, and suffers them not to be opened before sun-rise. And where there is any suspicion of infection, the gates muff be kept constantly locked, and opened only for necessary occurrences, in the presence of the prior.

Prior’s He muff not suffer dogs, cats or other domestic animals to go loose in the lazaretto.

Duty. He mlJq nejther buy nor fell, nor make bargains or contradls with passengers or others

within the lazaretto, nor permit others to do so; neither are contrafts of any kind, purchases or sales, nor even powers of attorney or other notorial acts allowed there, without express leave from the board; otherwise they are null and void.

He suffers no fishing boats, nor other small craft to come within a certain distance of the lazaretto, nor any communication between those in quarantine, and such boats.

He keeps a book wherein are regularly noted all persons who perform quarantine, together with a general inventory of their effects, and a particular distinct one of all goods and merchandise, copies of which he transmits to the health-office, at leaf: once a month.

He cannot receive persons nor effects to perform quarantine without a mandate from the * office, which mandate muff be always accompanied by a messenger, and in the fame form

at their discharge. Neither can he admit visitors to those in quarantine without such a mandate, which (for visits) is given gratis from the office*. But public brokers are excluded from these visits, even if they had obtained a mandate for that purpose.

He is to take care that quiet and good order be maintained among the passengers and porters, and muff not permit gaming, drinking, nor even such exercises and diversions as might produce a mixture of persons in different quarantines, or offend the circumspection of the place.

When a passenger or porter falls Tick, the prior by means of the respective guardian takes caie that he is separated from others in the fame apartment as much as possible, and

(immediately gives notice to the board, who fend their physician to examine diligently the

nature of the disease, and any other physician may be called jointly with him; but they are not to transgreff the cautions prescribed, or they would be detained in the fame apartment, till the quarantine ended. The prior is authorized to execute the office of notary public in cases ofneceffity, for no notary is admitted without express order from the board; he therefore may draw up wills and testaments of those within his territory, but it mufl be done in the presence of five witnesses. When any person dies there, unless the physician of the

* Adjoining to the prior’s house, there are parlm-s, where these visits are made generally in tile presence of A the pii-r, fab-prior or guardian, and sometimes of all of them.

office,

(

Sect. I.

LAZARETTOS.

15

office, together with the surgeon declare that his death proceeded not from any contagious cause, and that they are quite clear and explicit in their report, all those in his quarantine mud begin it anew, and that as often as any suspected death happens in it. There is a burial place within the lazaretto, and the dead are all buried naked, by those of their rel’pec-tive apartments, and if there is any suspicion of infection, a quantity of quick-lime is thrown upon the corpse in the grave, which is digged five or six feet deep.

It is the prior’s duty to fee that the guardians of the respective quarantines cause the passengers to expose their apparel, and other effects to the open air every day, and that they give all proper assistance to those under their guard.

He ought to visit every apartment under quarantine at lead twice a day, once in the morning, and once after noon, to fee that the passengers are properly served and supplied with necessaries, and that every thing goes on according to the rules and cautions of health. He is to take into his possession all forts of arms belonging to passengers, which are to be redored when the quarantine is finished.

No sutlers are admitted, but those appointed by the board, on purpose to supply the lazaretto with provisions and other necessaries; these are obliged to come every day, and to bring whatever the passengers order, at a fixed price; extortion is severely punished; they are not to enter the lazaretto, but have a convenient place assigned them, where the guardians and passengers can come to fee their provisions, and to give their orders; the sutlers have baskets fadened to poles of seven or eight feet long, in which they reach every thing to those within, and in presence of the prior or his fubditute, who cause the money to be dipped in vinegar or salt water, before the sutlers take it. These sutlers are subjected to the magidracy, and liable to punishment for every contravention of its rules and orders, which are hung up *.

When letters are written from the lazaretto they mud be fumigated in the usual way by the guardian who superintends the apartment, then reached to the prior by means of a cane, or other dick split in the end for that purpose, and by him sometimes perfumed and sent away. He causes the porters employed in expurgation of goods, to sweep and keep clean their respective dieds, and all around them, differing no bits of wool, cotton, or such like to fly about, or to lie on the ground when there is any passage; and attends with the mod vigilant exactness to the porters in the discharge of their daily duty, as will be more fully explained under another head.

The prior cannot be arreded, during his office, by any other magistrate but those of health, nor is subject to civil or criminal prosecution in any other court of judice: neither can persons or effects be arreded or attached in the lazaretto during quarantine. The prior is driftly enjoined not to exact money, or any other consideration whatever from the passengers, by way of recompense for his trouble or attendance, nor ought he even,

* Every morning two sutlers came in their boats with provisions, wood. &c. to the old lazaretto. The price of bread, butter, milk, fruit, and fuel, which I purchased, was about am third more than the price in the city.

(according

Venice.

Prior's

Duty.

Sutlers.

Prior’s

Duty.

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. I.

V

16

Vfnics. (according to the laws) to accept of presents from passengers who perform quarantine, or from merchants whose goods are under his inspection; only he is entitled to a small recognition for every' bale or parcel, as regulated by the magistrates. But he and his aliistants expect a gratuity *.

Prior’s The prior and his substitute must carefully avoid touching either goods or passenvers fiuTY' in quarantine, and for that end, in their walks and visits always carry a cane to keep passengers at a proper distance; but if by an unfortunate accident they should be contaminated by touch, they must perform the quarantine from whence the suspicion of infection was derived, and others would be appointed in their room, pro tempore. If they were touched by malicious design, the person offending is liable to such punishment as the nature of the offence requires, and the magistrates of health judge adequate.

Neither the prior nor his substitute must: leave the lazaretto, except when called by the magistrates, or upon business with them relative to his office; and not without express permission, on his private affairs f.

Guardi- There are sixty guardians belonging to the health-office of Venice, of whom part are ANS' appointed to inspect the quarantines of passengers, merchandise, and the porters attending it in the lazaretto, and part superintend the quarantines of ships and their companies, on board which they are sent immediately on their arrival, and continue till their discharge; all these have a fixed daily allowance, from the passengers, mailers of ships or merchants in whose service they immediately are. Their duty in the lazaretto is to attend on passengers, to assist them in their accommodation and otherwise, and strictly to observe that no mixture of different quarantines happens; as every apartment of passengers by the fame ship, or if goods and porters have their respective guardian, none of them are permitted to go without the limits of their allotted apartment, unless accompanied by the guardian, who has his cane to keep others at a due distance. On the arrival of passengers he must fee all their trunks, chests &c. opened, put his hands in every one of them, take a note of the general contents, and if he finds any thing contraband, the prior must acquaint the magistracy, who determine accordingly. They are to be very watchful about the health of their passengers, and give notice to the prior whenever they perceive lymptoms of sickness. They must keep the strictest eye over the porters, that they neglect not their daily labour in airing and moving the goods under their care, and in case of negligence, want of punftuality or difhonesty, they inform the prior who complains to the magistrates, and the porters are punished. The guardians

* To the prior I gave fix Jejuitx, to the fub-prior three, and to the guardian one, which was thought proper by those whom I consulted. (A frquin is about nine shillings.)

f On desiring the prior to Ihcw me the rules for the officers of the lazaretto, he presented me v/ith a printed copy, entitled Comtitijjioni in via d'ljlruzjtme, at nuovatttente eletto Pnore del lazaretto.

In Venezia 1726, quarto, 48 pages.

also

Sect. I.

LAZARETTOS.

»7

also are under the eye of the prior, and in cases of collusion or wilful neglect, they are punished severely and sometimes capitally*.

The duty of guardians on board ships is still more drift, and requires greater attention; for, not having the prior to direct them in any emergency, as in the lazaretto, they mull correspond directly with the office, and give an account of every thing that happens immediately. On their going aboard, they mud take an exact roll of all the ship’s crew, which they transmit to the office, and they mud lee them all mustered every day, that no sickness be concealed, nor elopement made. They mud also take a didinft and minute note of all goods and effects on board without exception, a copy of which they also transmit to the office, in order to prevent contraband goods being clandedinely retained. After this they mud on no consideration allow any thing to go out of the ship, nor mud they differ any bark or other vessel to come near without a mandate; and when visits are permitted to the captain or crew, the guardian mud always be in fight of the interview, that the due cautions of health be carefully observed. They are to take care that the sutlers appointed to serve ships in quarantine, perform their duty faithfully, and with due regard to die rules of health, in like manner as in the lazaretto. They are to permit no paflen-gers to perform quarantine on board the diip, under any pretence whatever, and if any should remain on board in bailors’ disguise, he or they mud be sent to the lazaretto, and the ship begins her quarantine anew from the day after their departure; as happens in the same manner if goods should be concealed on board, after the red of the cargo is sent to the lazaretto.

Messengers or servants are employed by the magistrates of the health-office to conduct all captains of ships to the office, to make their report, and back again on board, the captains going in their own boat, and the messengers in theirs; they mud also attend all passengers to the lazaretto, as well as every lighter of merchandise sent thither, and fee the boat's crew return on board again, without communication with others. They are obliged also (or rather the elded of them) to receive, open and perfume or smoke all letters that come by ships from suspected parts, and all captains, tailors or passengers, are driftly prohibited from keeping letters on board, or lending them ashore without this requisite formality at the health-office: they are afterwards sealed again, and distributed according to their directions. These messengers or servants (in number seven) are also employed in general on all messages from the office, whether to the lazaretto, or vessels in quarantine, or on business relating to the department of health in the city. They have no fixed salary, but are paid so much for conducting captains of ships, passengers, f or merchandise.

* Several of these guardians are old and infirm, and of no use in waiting on passengers. The daily pay of each is three lives and a half, as engraved on a ilone in the lazaretto. But my guardian was very cross till I made him an extra-allowance of a sequin a week for provisions.

f Being first sent to the new lazaretto, and afterwards conducted to the old, the demand by the inejfenger on the day I came out was fix tv lives and a half, Finding that he expected a gratuity, I gave him a sequin over and above his demand.

D All

Venice.

Guardi-

ans.

Messen-

gers.

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. I.

Venice.

Porters.

All porters employed in purging goods in the lazaretto, are immediately under the inspection and jurisdiction of the magistrates of health, so long as they remain there, being superintended by the prior and guardians, and if found deficient in doing their duty, are punished according to the rigour of the law, as indeed all other delinquents are in matters of health. Every merchant mud have his own porters, but their names muftbe given into the office, and approbation obtained; neither is it permitted to agree with them by the lump, but they must have their settled daily wages; the number of porters mud also be proportioned to the number of bales or large parcels, and for every forty bales or large parcels, there must be a porter.

Of receiving Captains of Ships from suspected Parts, and taking their Report.

It is here proper to premise, that all ships are received at Venice, even those which are known to have the plague on board; the rules of health are very exactly attended to in every' circumstance; in this they are naturally somewhat more fti i£t, but for the rest do not deviate from the established course. It is also requisite to observe, that all ships and merchan-clife coming from any part of the Ottoman dominions, are indispensably subjected to the full quarantine of foity day's; for, as the Turks take no precautions to prevent this dreadful calamity, or to preserve or deliver themselves from it; the Venetians very justly conclude that it is precarious and highly dangerous to trust to any certificates of health whatever, whether from their own consuls or others, in places where, although the contagion do not openly appear, it may lie lurking in bales of merchandise transported from other parts. Besides, ships from Zante, Zepholonia, and the other Venetian islands are always liable to a quarantine of thirty days, or three weeks at least, and frequently to forty day's; because, lying so near the Morea, and having daily communication with its inhabitants, they often neglect theftrift rules of health, or connive at the breach of them, though all of them have an office; on which communication they principally depend for their subsistence, the produce of these islands not being sufficient for a third part of their inhabitants. To prevent therefore the fatal consequences that such negligence might produce, it is an established rule, to treat all ships and merchandise on their arrival at Venice from these flifpefted places, with the fame caution and referee, as if they were actually infected; and to obviate all danger before their arrival, the pilots are strictly charged, on capital penalty, not to go on board any lliip from Turkey, or the adjacent islands, nor to mix with the people; nay, even no pilot is permitted to go on board any strip whatever till cleared at the health-office, or if necessity requires it, they are not to return to their own boats, but to remain on board, till the ship is declared free at the health-office; and in case of performing quarantine, the pilot must do the fame. They are also strictly ordered to use none but tarred ropes, and if the Jnip they attend comes from suspected parts, they arc to put the captain in mind to hoist the usual signal of such ships, that no other boats or vessels may inadvertently hold intercourse with them. When therefore the ship enters the port, or as soon as the above-mentioned signal is discovered, (and the health-office keeps a person on purpose to give notice of the approach of these and all other ships) a guardian is despatched on board, whose office and duty commences

Sect. I.

LAZARETTOS.

19

mences from that moment, and continues till the ship has performed quarantine: besides, Venice. in dangerous cases, as soon as tine ship comes to anchor in the situation appointed, a bark with a party of soldiers is sent to lie at a proper distance, and to observe that nothing is done against the established laws. Then one of the messengers goes to conduct the captain to the health-office; his boat keeps a proper distance before that of the captain, clears the way, and takes care that no communication is held between those in the suspected boat and others. When they arrive at the landing place of the office, which is so contrived that the captain and people may talk with those on shore without approaching too near, he is forthwith conducted into an enclosed entry for that purpose, adjoining to the office, where his report is taken by a clerk, from a window at due distance; the usual questions Questions are alked, such as, from whence he comes; when he left his port; whether he has a clean bill c 4P 1K, of health or not; what kind of voyage he has made; if he touched intermediate ports; if he had product in them, or not; if he met vessels at lea; and of what nation; if he were aboard of them, or they of him; how many hands he has on board, and if any passengers; if they have been all the voyage in health, or if any be dead, or sick; what his loading con-lifts of; if he took it in all in one port: this report is written down by the clerk, and then all his papers and letters are demanded. The first papers to be examined (after previous fumigation) is the bill of health, which is compared with the report given in by the captain, both in regard to the health of the place from whence he came, and to the number of seamen and passengers on board: and if any captain present himself without a bill of health, it is the unalterable rule of the office, to oblige ship and cargo to perform full quarantine. If there should be any difference between the bills of health, and the captain’s report, in the number of persons on board, it is very strictly examined into, and the ship although coming from a place without the Ieaft suspicion of infection, is kept in relerve till the matter is sufficiently cleared up; and if any malicious intention be discovered in the captain to deceive the magistracy, by giving false reports, it is a capital crime, and punished accordingly; for if the number on board be greater than that in the bills of health, there is ground to suspect that the supernumerary person or persons have been taken from on board another fin ip, or from some place, without the requisite documents of health: and if the number be less, it might have been diminished by some contagious disease; but supposing those points satisfactory, all ships with clean bills of health are at liberty to unload directly after the captain’s report, and he may return on board, without the meffen-ger. But when the ship is from any part of the Turkish dominions, or other suspected parts, the captain is re-conducted on board with the fame formality as he came. The guardian being already on board, begins immediately on the captain’s return to exercise his office, by taking an exact roll of all the crew, and a particular note of their clothes and other eflefts, both which he transmits to the office, to be compared with the captain’s report; and when permission is given to unload, he keeps an exact register of every parcel that goes out of the ship, which he transmits to the office, in order to be compared with the captain’s manifesto delivered in writing on making his report.

D 2

When

io

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. I.

I

I

\

QjJ ARANT1NE of PASSENGERS.

Venice. When there are passengers on board, as soon as the above formalities are over, a mandate is sent from the office, to remove them to the lazaretto, where they usually go in the ship’s boat, the messenger always keeping near them in his; when they arrive at the lazaretto, the messenger consigns them to the prior, and conducts the ship’s boat back again. The passengers find their guardian of health at the lazaretto before them; their apartment is assigned, their clothes and other effects lor use are visited, and noted, and they begin to count their quarantine from the day after their arrival at the lazaretto, with the precautions and regulations already described.

Wool.

Silk.

Cotton

Wool.

Unloading Merchandise, and removing it to the Lazaretto.

All goods and effects susceptible of infection from suspected parts, must go to the lazaretto to perform quarantine, none being permitted to remain in the ship; but l’uch as are not susceptible, and in bulk may be unloaded on the ship’s arrival, after obtaining a mandate, and in presence of a messenger, who must be always within fight, as well as the ship’s guardian on board. Great caution is used in transporting merchandise to the lazaretto; the lighters must have no fails, or the prior detains them along with the goods; the ropes are well tarred; the sailors belonging to the ship load them, and take them in tow with their own boats to the lazaretto, always accompanied by a messenger in going and coming. The prior receives them, as before observed, delivers them to the care of the porters and guardians, and they are accountable. One of the ship-mates or seamen remains in tire lazaretto for further guard to the goods, and to be answerable for the bills of lading, performing his quarantine there. When the whole cargo is unloaded, and properly disposed and ranged in the lazaretto, the quarantine of both ship and goods commences, and not before.

Expurgation of Goods in the Lazaretto.

Goods for expurgation are ranged under iheds for that purpose in the lazaretto, in different order according to the kinds and marks of the parcels, so that no confusion infues in distinguishing the respective properties.

Wool is taken entirely out of the bags or bales, and ranged in heaps, not above four feet high, these are all moved twice every day, turned, and the heaps mixed by the porters with their hands and arms bare, during forty days successively, and every five days are besides the usual labour, moved out of the places they were in.

Silk, flax, feathers and such like, are managed in the same manner.

Cotton wool and yarn, camel’s hair and beaver in bags are purged in a different way. The bags are all unripped at one end, and the porters are obliged every day, to thrust their naked hands and arms into them, in different places as far as the middle of the bag, for twenty days successively; then the bags are sewed up, turned over, and the other end unripped, and managed in the same manner the twenty subsequent days, which complete the quarantine; but neither of the days wherein the bags are opened, are reckoned among

the forty.

Woollen

Sect. I. LAZARETTOS.

Woollen and linen cloths, and all goods that are folded in pieees, are unloosed, and the porters turn them over sold by fold, thrusting their naked arms between the folds, and shifting them often, under and above. When there is a certainty of infection, besides this daily motion, they are unfolded, and extended on cords to the open air, as often as the weather permits. Carpets, blankets, bed covers, quilts, and other manufactures of wool and silk, flax, books, vellum, and all kinds of paper, hair bags, and such like, are continually exposed to the air, moved and turned two or three times a day.

Furs are among the most dangerous articles, and very carefully purged, kept constantly exposed to the air, and very often moved and shaken; in like manner hair, and ofirich feathers are very diligently attended to.

Tobacco, cordouans, fhcep and goats skins, dressed, and all other dry dressed skins, are ranged in heaps, and now and then moved; but being articles less subject to infection they are usually liberated in twenty days.

Bees wax and sponges, are purged by putting them in salt water (not stagnated) for forty-eight hours, and then they are free. There is a place formed in the lazaretto for this purpose, and a guardian to superintend the operation.

Wax and tallow candles are subject to full quarantine, on account of the cotton in them, but if the proprietor submits to let them be immerged as above, they are free. Animals with wool or longhair, are liable to the whole quarantine; but those with short straight hair are purged by causing them to swim ashore. The feathered animals are purged by repeated sprinkling with vinegar till well wet.

There are other articles not susceptible of infection, and of consequence not liable to quarantine, though sometimes they become liable by attendant circumstances, such as faked hides, which when fufliciently faked and moist, are free; but if dry, they mull: undergo the formalities of quarantine.

Afpher is in itself free, and may be landed, but its being wrapt or packed up in susceptible matter, subjects it to quarantine; and in like manner, other free articles which cannot be separated from their package, or if the proprietors do not choose they should be, are liable to the cautions of the lazaretto.

Many articles are always free, when they come in the lump, and others though in package, either because the package itself is free, or purified by the volatile qualities of the contents, or can be removed or rendered harmless. Of the first fort, arc all kinds of grain, Vallonia or bark, salt, flax seed, and in general all feeds, marble, minerals, wood, earths, sand, allum, vitriol, elephants’ teeth, &c. Of the second fort are sugars, cheese, butter, pignoli, fruits fresh and dried, all faked and smoked meat, &c. Bottorghi, drugs, eolours, and such like, that can be separated from the packages. Of the third fort, are liquors of all kinds, brandies, oils, wines, after pitching the bungs, left there should be canvass or any thing of that nature in them, currants, raifms and pitch, although in can-vafs packages, are free, because it is supposed their nature, or the effluvia proceeding from them prevent^contagion, only the seams and corners, are tarred.

2 I

Venice.

Woollen

Cloths.

Furs.

Tobacco,

Bees Wax.

Candles.

Animals.

Hides.

Aspher.

Articles

free.

The

22

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. I.

Venice.

Mudo.v.

Xante.

Castel-

Novo.

Molita.

The / raiet:aus were formerly one of the first commercial nations in Europe, and the regulations for performing quarantine in their lazarettos are wife and good-, but now, in almost every department into which I had opportunity to look, there is such remissness and corruption in executing these regulations, as to render the quarantine alrnoft useless, and little more than an establishment for providing for officers and infirm people.

In coming from Smyrna in a Venetian ship with a foul bill, we first anchored at Modon in the Morea, for water. Here a Turkish officer came on board, and attended us dll we were out of the port, to fee that this alone was our object*. Afterwards we anchored at Zante, where some passengers disembarked, and we were detained a day or two extraordinary, that the captain might retail coffee, &c. to the inhabitants. We next anchored at an island north of Corfu, where the captain and passengers went ashore, and the inhabitants came on board to traffic for quilts, &c. Opposite Castel-Novo, at about two miles distance is the health-office, where all ffiips that come from the Levant into that port are obliged to anchor. Here the owner of the ship lived; and the captain and passengers went almost every day into the city; and employing themselves in unloading and loading goods day and night, caused a delay of eight days. The mate openly in the day time took goods to his friends in the country, and continued with them till the next day. A Ragufian ship also, and others which anchored here with clean bills, freely associated and traded with us. I observed that a half naked man (a soldier) came to us, in a boat rowed by a boy, twice a day, and that he received biscuits and hot victuals. I at first imagined that he came for charity; but soon learnt that he was the guard for our ship, appointed by the officer who resided at the health-office. At the isle of Molita, near the coast of Dalmatia we anchored again, and the captain and two of the passengers wentdireftly ashore. Three days were l'pent here in trading with the inhabitants, and the opportunity of a fine wind was loft, to gratify the avarice of the captain.

Such occurrences convinced me of the justnefs of a remark, which was made by a Greek merchant who had considerable property on board this ship; that all captains and crews of Levant ships should be strictly prohibited from trading in their voyages. In confoquence of this practice, the goods are often detained so long as to lose a market; and the passengers and crews are exposed to more danger, should there be any infection in the ship. But above all; it exposes the inhabitants of the islands and coasts of the Mediterranean to perpetual danger of the importation of the plague. This was dreadfully verified in Dalmatia a few years ago; and I was informed that lately, in a hamlet belonging to the Ragufian state, all the inhabitants died of the plague thus imported, except two or three, who were diemselves (hot, by the order of the magistrates to the funounding guard.

* A few days after leaving Modon, we had a smart ildrmiih with a Tuniuan privateer. In this skirmish one of our cannon charged with spike-nails, &c. having accidentally done great execution, the privateer immediately, to our great joy, hoi lied its fails and made off. This i-itc.-of'vn of Providence saved us from a dreadful fate; for I underilood afterwards, that our captain, expecting that cither our immediate death, or perpetual slavery at Tunis would be the cor.fequer.ee of being taken, had determined to blow up the ship rather than surrender.

At

Sect. II.

LAZARETTOS.

23

At Trieste there are two lazarettos; one new, but both clean, and a contrail: to those I had lately seen at Venice. The plan of the new one I give in plate XIII. The floors above were boarded, those below were of white bricks; the rooms were eighteen feet and a half by fifteen, had a neat bedstead, chair and table. It is surrounded at the diltance of about twenty yards by a double wall, within which are separate burying places for Roman-Catholics, Greeks and Protestants. There is a current of water from the adjacent hills, which, were it properly conduced within the walls, might be very useful.

I am under peculiar obligations to the Director of the health-office for the rules and tariffs of this lazaretto (printed in German and Italian at Triefle, 1769) and for permission to copy its plan; and also the plans of the lazarettos at Marseilles and Venice, which I happened to discover here.

SECTION II.

PROPOSED REGULATIONS

AND

A NEW PLAN FOR A LAZARETTO.

HAVING now given the plans of the principal lazarettos in Europe, I shall in what follows take the fame liberty that I took with respect to prisons, and draw the outlines of a proper lazaretto *. —Many lazarettos are close, and have too much the aspect of prisons; and I have often heard captains in the Levant trade say, that the spirits of their passengers fink at the prospect of being confined in them. In those of them which I have visited, I have observed several pale and dejeSled persons, and many fresh graves. To prevent as much as possible these disagreeable circumstances, a lazaretto should have the moll cheerful aspect. A spacious and pleasant garden in particular, would be convenient as well as salutary. See. plate XIV.

But waving this observation, I will offer a few remarks respecting quarantines and lazarettos in general; after which I will take notice of some advantages in respect of commerce as well as health, which may accrue from such an establishment in England. I will farther, in the sequel, give the answers of some physicians abroad to a set of quellions which I was led to propose to them, by considering that should a lazaretto be erected among us, and this country be ever visited with a scourge so dreadful as the plague, the opinions of eminent physicians experienced in this calamity might be of particular service.

OBSERVATIONS upon QUARANTINES and LAZARETTOS.

r. All vessels subject to a quarantine, arriving on our coast, should be obliged to hoist a red flag, or some other signal, at the main top-gallant mall head; in order to warn all

* By the Act, 12th of Geo. III. cap. 57. certain persons were empowered to build a lazaretto. And the Act recites “ that in the fifth year of the reign of his present Majesty a sum ouas granted by Parliament, not exceeding five thousand pounds, towards building a lazaret.” But nothing has been done in consequence of this Act.

other

Trieste.

I

24

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. II.

I

other ships against ail communication with them; and all persons coming on board notwithstanding such warning, should be detained to perform the quarantine.

2. All boats belonging to any ship in quarantine, as well as all craft employed in unloading the fame, should be obliged to carry a red pendant at the mail: head, whenever lent from the lliip.

3. The ship’s hatch-ways ought not to be opened till the captain and mate have given in their depofltions; and all the passengers, the secretary, and such of the sailors who may be permitted to leave the lliip, should be landed at the lazaretto, under a very severe penalty.

4. The place appointed for receiving depositions lliould be so contrived, that the person who takes them may at all times place himself to windward of those who make them. This should also be observed as much as possible, at the barrier of the lazaretto, where people are permitted to speak with those in quarantine. But if not, they should be placed on this account at a greater distance from one another.

5. A fort of quarantine having been performed during the long voyage to England, and there being, in my opinion, a great probability that the infection cannot remain in any person without shewing itself, beyond forty-eight hours, the persons under quarantine ought to be allowed to quit the lazaretto sooner than is now customary in other countries. Perhaps a residence of twenty-two days may be fully sufficient.

6. Fumigating of passengers as practised at Marseilles is an advantage; for a person may carry the infection in his clothes, and communicate it to others, without taking it himself, as in the gaol -fever. But this implies, that it ought to be done at the end ol the quarantine, to those only who go out with the clothes which they wore when they came in.

7. Great care should be taken, to keep at a proper distance from persons performing quarantine, all sailors and passengers as well as others. My reaf n for giving this caution is, that I have seen persons just arrived in ships with foul bills, permitted at the bar of a lazaretto, to come very near to persons whose quarantine was almost over; and thus danger was produced of communicating the plague.—And here I shall take occasion to observe, that in my opinion, this distemper is not generally to be taken by the touch, any more than the gaol-fever or small-pox; but either by inoculation, or by taking in with the breath in respiration the putrid effluvia which hover round the infefted object, and which when admitted set the whole mass of blood into a fermentation, and sometimes so suddenly and violently as to destroy its whole texture, and to produce putrefaction and death in less than forty-eight hours. These effluvia are capable of being carried from one place to another, upon any subst.tnce where what is called feent can lodge, as upon wool, cotton, &c. and in the lame manner that the smell of tobacco is carried from one place to another*.

It

* I am here reminded of a singular fad, which f gladly mention in honour to the memory cf a worthy cha-radter. When the plague raged in London, in the year 1665, the infection was conveyed by means of a parcel of clothes to the remote village of Eyam near Tidefwell in the Peak of Derbyshire. fn this place it broke out in September 1665, and continued its ravages upwards of a year, when two hundred and sixty of the inhabitants had died of it. The worthy re3or. Mr. Jl Jemfejin, whose name may rank with those of cardinal Been mao! Milan, and

iff

Sect. II,

LAZARETTOS.

25

It is by these ideas of the communication of the plague that the foregoing rules have been suggested; and were the regulations for performing quarantine directed by them,some of the restrictions in lazarettos would be abolished, and more care would be taken to improve and enforce others.

It may be alked, how is it possible, if the plague be communicated by infefted air, that a whole body of men in a town where it rages should be capable of being preserved from it, as is the case with Englishmen in Turkey; and also, why every individual in such a town is not taken with it ? In anl'wer to the first of these questions, it may be observed, that the infection in the air does not extend far from the infefted object, but lurks chiefly, (like that near carrion) to the leeward of it. I am lb allured of this, that I have not fcru-pled going, in the open air, to windward of a person ill of the plague and feeling his pulse. The next question may be answered, by asking why, of a number of persons equally exposed to the infection of the small-pox, or of the gaol-fever, feme will not take it ? Perhaps physicians themselves are not capable of explaining this sufficiently. It is, however, evident in general, that it mull be owing to something in the state of the blood and the constitutions of such persons which renders them not easily susceptible of infection.—The rich are less liable to the plague than the poor, both because they are more careful to avoid infection, and have larger and more airy apartments, and because they are more cleanly and live on better food, with plenty of vegetables; and this, I suppose, is the reason why Protestants are less liable to this dillemper than Catholics during their times of falling; and, likewise, why the generality of Europeans are less liable to it than Greeks, and particularly Jews, f And would not the former be Hill more secure in this respect, were they more attentive to the qualities of dieir food, and lived more on plain and simple diet

the good bishop of Marseilles, at its breaking out, resolved not to quit his parifltioners, but used every argument to prevail with his wife to leave the infected spot. She, however, refused to forsake her hu/band, and is supposed to have died of the plague. They sent away their children. Mr. Mompefion constantly employed himself, during the dreadful visitation, in his pastoral office, and preached to his flock in a field where nature had formed a fort of alcove in a lock, which place Ji 'dl retains the appellation of a church. He survived, and the entries in the parish register relative to this calamity are in his hand-writing, •viz. 1665, in Sept. 6 died; Oft. 22; Nov. jj Dec. 7. 1666, in Jan. 5 died; Feb. 5; March 2; April 12; May 5; June 20; July 53;

Aug. 78; Sept. 24; Oct. 17; Nov. t. In the fields surrounding the town are many remains denoting the places where tents were pitched; and tombs are dill exiling of large families entirely swept away by this devouring pefiilence.

* It is remarkable, that when the corpse is cold of a person dead of the plague, it does not infect the air by any noxious exhalations. This is so much believed in Turkey, that the people there are not afraid to handle such corpses. The governor at the French hospital in Smyrna told me, that in the lad dreadful plague there, his house was rendered aim oil intolerable by an offensive feent (especially if he opened any of tliofc windows which looked towards the great burying-ground, where numbers every day were left unburied); but that it had no effect on the health either of himself or his family. An opulent merchant in this city likewise told me, that he and his family had felt the fame inconvenience, without any bad consequences.

t The poorer fort of Greeks and Jews use much oil with their food; and this I reckon a disadvantage to them. I have heard of inilances of servants in European families, who through imprudence and carelessness, have been attacked with the plague, while the red of the family have escaped it.

E

OBSERVATIONS

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. II.

26

OBSERVATIONS ON THE IMPORTANCE

OF A

LAZARETTO IN ENGLAND.

Having been led by the similarity of the subject to extend my views from prisons and hospitals to lazarettos, my chief intention in my last tour was to collect the regulations and plans of the lazarettos in Europe. On finding three English ships performing a long and tedious quarantine at Malta, it occurred to me, that a lazaretto in England might save

time and expense, and for this real'on prove an advantage to our commerce. I therefore

consulted on this subject our consuls at Zante and Smyrna, Chancellor Boddmgton, and several intelligent and respedable merchants; and requested they would give me their opinions. The relult was their unanimous recommendation of such a design. From the merchants I received the following letter at Constantinople, of which they have given me leave to make what use 1 please.

S I R,

Smyrna. “ WE flatter ourselves that no apology is necessary for troubling you with this address, calculated to convey to you every information we are mailers of, which we think Me a- may be of use to you in the attainment of the laudable end you have in view, to forward

Lette r t^ie 'nl:erects of society in general, and those of the nation in particular.

We understand that when the building of a lazaretto was agitated in England some time

ago, the chief objection to it was the great expense it would be to the nation, which did not reap anj- adequate advantages by the Turkey trade. We are as much persuaded that the want of a lazaretto in England has been the cause of the Turkey trade not being, till now, more worth the notice of government, as that the establishment of one will render it an object of great importance to the nation. It will not only be productive of the immediate advantages which flow from an extensive and flourishing trade, but will free the kingdom from the rifle it now runs of the plague being introduced into it. That a ( lazaretto will be productive of these two ends, we hope to prove to your satisfaction by what we are now going to lay before you.

It is enacted by Act of Parliament, that when any veil'd loads for England, in any of the ports of Turkey, and departs with a foul bill of health, such vessels shall perform quarantine at Malta, Leghorn or Venice:* the numberless hardlbips which this subjects

* “ And be it further enacted-That no goods or merchandizes liable to retain the infcflion of the plague,

« and coming from the Levant, without a clean bill of health, shall be landed in any part of Great Britain or

• < Ireland —unlefs it shall appear-that the said goods-have been sufficiently opened and aired in the lazarets

of Malta, Ancona, Venice, Messina, Leghorn, Genoa, and Marseilles, or one of them.” :6th Geo. II. f. 300.

our

Sect. 11.

LAZARETTOS.

our export trade to, amount almost to a total supprefilon of it. A single accident of the plague in this large city and its environs, or one brought from any other infected place, though this city may be entirely free from it, obliges the consul to ifl'ue foul bills of health. As no information, to be depended upon, can be procured from the Turks concerning the plague, and as the Greek nation is the next mold numerous one in the city, the consuls apply to the deputies of it for information, when there are any reports of the plague, and according to the answer they receive, they cither ifl'ue clean or foul bills of health. It often happens that the Greeks themselves are authors of false reports concerning the plague, and that their deputies inform the consuls of accidents having happened in their nation, when in reality there is no plague in the city or its environs. The motive which induces them to give this false information is obvious. The Greeks carry on three-fourths of the Dutch as well as Italian trade: it is therefore their interest (and unfortunately that of every other nation) to depress ours as much as possible; and there is not a more effectual method of doing this, than by obliging our vessels to go to perform a long and expensive quarantine in the ports of the Mediterranean, by which means the cottons which form their principal loading, as well as the chief article of both trades are no less than seven months on their way to London. This long interval gives the Greeks time to load their ships, and as they perform a very short quarantine in Holland (of the nature of which we {hall speak more particularly hereafter) they supply our markets by copious exportations of the cottons that were loaded here at the same time with ours, two or three months before our vessels can reach England. It is by this means that more than half the Turkey cottons confiimed in England, are supplied by the Dutch to the great support of their Turkey trade, and the ruin of ours; and it is by this means that, whilst: our trade is sacrificed by rrgorous quarantine laws, to considerations of national safety, the plague may be introduced into the kingdom by the Dutch. To prove that this risk actually exists, and in no fimall degree, we need only inform you of the method in which Dutch vessels, loaded here in the height of the plague, perform quarantine in Llolland. On their arrival at Helvoetfluys a doctor is sent on board of them to visit the crew, which he does by feeling their pulse; after which he immediately returns to the shore, and reports the slate of their healths: three or four days after this, the vessel is ordered to a place at a distance from the rest of the shipping, and two or three lighters are sent along fide, into which are only emptied the cottons that are in the ’tween decks, and the hatches are opened on pretence of airing the goods in the hold, which form the principal part of the cargo, and which remain untouched till the forty days are over; when they are unloaded into the merchants warehouses, or into the vessels destined to tranlport them to England. Thus you fee Sir, that one part of the goods perform a slovenly quarantine, and the rest may be said to perform none at all; for, as the air cannot penetrate into holds so closely flowed with cottons as they always are, the forty days they remain in the vessel after her arrival can only be considered as forty days added to her paf-sage. In this manner cottons are brought into England that have undergone no purifi-

E 2 cation

S M v R N A.

Mer-

chants’

Letter

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. II.

1o

Smyrna.

Mer-ci ii '.NTS’ Letter.

cation at all; and if it should happen that they are infefted, nothing is more easy than the infection's being introduced into England by their means. English vessels can only begin to load here direct for England, forty days after the last accident of the plague, and if any accident happen whilst they are in loading, they mult either go away immediately with the few goods they may have on board, or else they mult wait in port, on a cruel uncertainty, fort)' days after the last reported accident, whether real or invented, if they do not prefer the hard alternative of continuing their loading, and going away with a foul bill of health, to perform quarantine in feme of the lazarettos in the Mediterranean; on the contrary, Dutch vessels may be three months in loading, they may have taken the greatest part of their cargo in whilst the plague raged, and notwithstanding this, if they are in port forty days after the last accident, clean bills of health are granted them, in virtue of which they only perform twenty-one days quarantine in the slovenly manner above mentioned.

Our government, has reasonably laid a quarantine on cottons imported into England from Holland; but we understand that when this has been the case, the quarantine in Holland, such as it is, has been curtailed by the connivance of those who should regulate it: by this manteuvre, the end of our government in laying a quarantine, is entirely defeated. This total disregard of lo serious an object, as the regulation of quarantines mull be, to all nations, gives so great an advantage to the Dutch Turkey trade over ours, that it induces their government, to overlook the rilks the nation incurs by it; and when representations were made in Holland on the necessity of establishing a lazaretto to obviate this risk, and the fatal consequences which the introduction of the plague might be of to all Europe, the thrifty Elollanders, ever prefer!ing the interests of their trade, to those of humanity, would not allow lb forcible an argument to have any weight with them; but gave for answer, that it would be time enough to think of a lazaretto when the English had built one. The Dutch traders have so decided a luperiority over us at our own markets, that it is only the necessity gentlemen are in to have returns, which can induce us to ship any cottons at all during the existence of the plague here; for by arriving after our markets are supplied, loaded besides with ten per cent, extra charges, incurred in the ports where they perform quarantine, they are sold to a considerable loss. This circumstance alone is sufficient to account for the present infignilicance of our trade, and the consequent little advantage the nation reaps from it. In what a different situation would the establishment of a lazaretto put it r By depriving the Dutch of the advantages they now enjoy, we should be able to supply the whole quantity of cottons demanded at our markets; instead of only lending five thousand bales, we should fend more than double that quantity annually; and as by a fixed regulation of the Levant company, we can only purchase the products of this country with the produce of goods lent from England, the importation of our manufactures would increase in the fame proportion. The quantity of shipping employed in the trade would likewise be doubled, and by earning the freight which

Sect. II.

LAZARETTOS.

29

is now paid to the Dutch, on the cottons they send to England, it would be so much clear gain to the nation, added to tire advantages which would attend the exten-fion of its navigation, and the increase of the conliimption of its manufactures; advantages which are now enjoyed by our rivals the Dutch, the prosperity of whose trade is founded on the ruin of ours.

We are aware that the building of a lazaretto would cost the nation a considerable sum of moneybut we think the commercial advantages it would derive from it would alone be more than a compensation for such a charge. It would not only be the ships which load in the ports of Turkey, but those from all the ports in the Mediterranean, which would contribute to its support.

Admitting, however, that the Turkey trade is not so far worth the notice of government as to induce it to build a lazaretto for it, the consideration alone of its preserving the nation from the great rilk it now evidently runs of such a great calamity as the plague being introduced into it, we presume is of sufficient importance to make government determine on a measure which every state in Italy has considered so necessary, that the most insignificant amongst them have their lazarettos. The knowledge you have acquired of the plans and regulations of these, and every other lazaretto in Europe, in your present tour, is so much superior to any information we can give you, that we do not presume to trouble you on the subject.

Should your representations meet with the success they will deserve, the nation at large will experience in a new instance, the advantages that can be derived from the

pursuits of a ----- individual, who, from the noblest motives dedicates himself to the

interests of humanity, and we, as well as every other member of the Levant company, shall consider ourselves as indebted to you for the revival of our drooping trade.”

Smyrna, WILIAM BARKER, ISAAC MORIER, FREDERICK HAYES,

July 3, 1786. JOSEPH FRANEL, JAMES HICKS GRIBBLE, GEORGE PERKINS,

RICHARD LEE, jun. ANTHONY HAYES, jun. THOMAS J. BARKER. EDWARD LEE,

This letter I Shewed to the two Engiish houses at Salonica for their approbation or disfent, and received the following answer.

S I R,

“ W E have carefully read the above letter addressed to you from the Factory of Smyrna on the subj'eft of establishing a lazaretto in England, and find the reasons given by those gentlemen in favour of the fame, so strong, and so exactly our own opinion on the subject, that we have nothing to add thereto, but to alfure you that we fmcerely wish your endeavours may be crowned with success; as we are convinced the establishing a lazaretto in England will be a means of greatly increasing our trade to the Levant, and of guaranteeing the nation from the rifle it now runs (in our opinion) of the plague

being

Smyrna.

Mer-

chants’

Letter.

Salonica.

Mer-

chants’

Letter.

3°

LAZARETTOS.

Sect. II.

being introduced from the negligent manner the ships from Turkey perform quarantine in Holland. We have-----&rc.”

JOHN OLIFER,

Salonica, July 21, 1786. BARTHOLOMEW EDW. ABBOTT.

To the foregoing letters, I will add the following reasons for a lazaretto in England, which I received from a very intelligent merchant in the Levant.

First. Our cotton manufactories will then be regularly supplied with Turkey cotton directly from the place of its growth, and consequently there will no longer be any occasion for their being supplied from Holland, France and Italy, as has been too much the case since the consumption of this article in England has become lb very confrderable, to the no small prejudice of the nation: * as such cottons purchased

• Perhaps the trade to Turkey is more beneficial than to any other country; for we there receive raw materials, which we return manufactured: for cottons, by articles of agreement with the Ottoman court, are not paid for in money, (as hemp, iron See. are in Russia) but by our manufactured goods. This trade though dogged is Hill considerable, as may appear from the exports in the year 1786.

Account of Goods exported from London to Turkey in the Tear CO C\

289 Bales qt. 1590 Cloths at £‘5 0 0 per Clo. £23850 O 0

1333 Bales -- 50140 Stuffs (Shalloons) 3 0 0 - 150420 O 0

171 Bales -- 17143 Muslins and Calicoes — I 10 0 - 25714 10 0

1642 Barrels and Chests of Tin - l8 0 0 - 29556 0 0

650 Boxes Tin Plates - 2 12 0 - 1690 0 0

5330 Pieces Lead, 700 Fodder - I9 0 0 - 13300 0 0

1316" Barrels Lead Shot 230 Tons 20 0 0 - 4600 0 0

204 Parcels Cutlery and Hardware - - 40 0 0 - 8160 0 0

45 Casks Refined Sugar 450 cwi. - 3 0 0 - 1350 0 0

66 Cafes Clocks and Watches -- 200 0 0 - 13200 0 0

221 Bags Ginger 250 cwt. 2 0 0 - 500 0 0

12 Casks Cochineal 2400/A O 16 0 - 1920 0 0

83 Calks Indigo 25000 O 6 0 - 75°° 0 0

243 Bags Pepper 72900 O 1 3 - 4556 5 0

50 Barrels Gun-Powder 3 0 O I5O 0 0

37 Cafes Fire Arms - 40 0 O - I48O 0 0

12 Casks Coffee 100 cvjt. 4 0 O - 4OO 0 0

94 Parcels Earthen Ware 10 0 O - 94O 0 0

109 Coils Cordage - 10 0 O - 1O9O 0 0

62 Puncheons Rum ... - 15 0 O VO t-»j O 0 0

130 Tons Logwood - 10 0 O - I3OO 0 0

40 Tons Brazilletto Wood 12 0 O -N O 0 0

49 Casks of Pimento - 40 0 O - I960 0 0

40 Calks Copperas 10 0 O - 4OO 0 0

Total £295,446 15 o

111

Sect. 11.

LAZARETTOS.

3l

in Turkey with the manufactures of the three nations above mentioned, are generally (I believe we may say always) again purchased for the London market with bills of exchange upon London; whereas, the cottons imported by the Levant company can only be purchased with the products of goods imported from England.

2. As it is calculated that at lead one half of the cottons that are manufactured in England are purchased in Holland, France and Italy; * and as these cottons, it is presumed will, after a lazaretto is built, be imported directly from the place of their growth, there will consequently be employed near double the tonnage now employed by the Levant company, to the no small advantage of the nation, arising from the clear profit of the freights, the increase of our navigation, and the increase of our exports in goods inilead of specie. j-

3. In answer to the objection that Turkey will not take off any more of our fabrics and staple commodities, than are now consumed there, it should be observed, -that, as the importation of cotton into Holland, France and Italy, will decrease for want of the usual demand for the London market, their exports will allb decrease in proportion; and consequently make room for a greater quantity of ours. The Dutch will no longer fend our tin and lead adulterated to the Turkey markets. They and the French will fend thither a less quantity of their cloth, and this will make more room for our shalloons, which have already begun to give a fatal blow there to the French cloth trade.

We may also supply the Turks with part of those East and Well Indian commodities, which they now receive from the French, Dutch and other nations.

4. The building of a lazaretto in England, and the prohibition of the importation of any Turkey goods, any other way than directly, will be the effectual means to prevent the introduction of the plague, of which there is now very great danger, on account of the cottons that come to us by way of Holland. These, though shipped in the Levant, in time of the plague, are while under quarantine in Holland never opened and aired, as is done in all the lazarettos in the Mediterranean, but forwarded to England in their original packages, where they perform again the fame slovenly quarantine; and are then sent down to our manufacturing towns, where they are first unpacked, and where by this means the plague may very easily be introduced.

With regard to the danger of the introduction of the plague from Holland, the following mandated quotation from Dr. Hodges’s. Treatije on the Plague of London in 1665, will confirm the opinion above Hated. “ With respect to the origin of our

* I am informed, that of eighteen thousand bags of Turkey cotton used in England, six thousand only are imported from Turkey in English bottoms. The rest we owe to Holland, Marseilles and Leghorn.

f The employment of seamen is a point of importance to the public; for great numbers of those who were discharged at the conclusion of the late war, having been improvident, and not readily finding employment, fell into vices which terminated in their ruin. Of this I was convinced by my late visits to the prisons.

“ pestilence,

32

THE PLAGUE.

Sect. III.

% t,

I'"I Rs 1

“ pestilence, I do not hesitate to affirm, from the fulleft authority of undeniable testi-“ mony, that it first entered this island by means of contagion, and was brought from “ Holland in merchandise imported from that country, where it had made great ravages “ the preceding year; and if any one is desirous of inquiring further into its origin, I “ inform him, that if any credit is to be given to report, its feeds were brousht into “ Holland from the Turkish empire, along with cotton, which is a most faithful pre-“ server of contagion.” Seftien II.

I will add that a lazaretto in England would prevent the following danger. Some merchants in the Levant, when the ships mult come out with foul bills, fend the cottons to the Hands, or some other places which are clear of infection, there to perform quarantine. But this quarantine being (as I have fecn) a very flight one, of only twenty days, and yet entitling the ships to clean bills with which they come to England, is by no moans a sufficient security.

SECTION III.

PAPERS RELATIVE TO THE PLAGUE.

answers to questions concerning the plague.

ON my departure for my late tour, I was furnished by two of my medical friends, Dr. Aikhi and Dr. Jebb, with a fct of queries respeffing the plague, to be put to some of the moll: experienced praflicioners in the places which I meant to visit. I fulfilled this commUfion as -well as I was able, and brought back the result in several papers in the French and Italian languages, which Dr. Atkin, to whose assistance I am indebted for a variety of professional matter in this work, has methodized and abridged so as to form one connected article. I here give it to the public; with a view of shewing the opinions prevalent concerning that difeale in the countries where it is best known by experience, and thereby establishing some of the most important fuels relative to its frraeusim.

on i. Is the hfsitiott of the Plague frequently communicated by the ‘Touch

Raymond, Pbyftcian, Marseilles. It is lomctimes so communicated.

Demoj.lixs, Surgeon, Marseilles. There are mstances of persons in the lazaretto who touch infected things and bodies without catching the disease; which is to be attributed to their temperament of body.

Giovanelli

Sect. III.

T H E P L A G U E.

Giovanelli, Pbyjician to the Lazaretto at Leghorn. The plague cannot be communicated without very near approach or touch of an infefted body or substance; and the air cannot be the vehicle of this infection.

They, Pbyjician to the' Lazaretto at Malta. All who approach the atmosphere of a pestilential body may receive the infection by respiration; and it is almost always observed that the contagion is received before approaching or touching the sick person.

Yct it may happen that a person may inhabit the fame chamber with, and even touch a patient in the plague without being infefted; instances of which I have known,

Morandi, Pbyjician, Venice. Contact is one of the mod powerful and dangerous means of communicating the infection; but for the developement of its effects a predifposition in the receiving body is necessary.

Verdoni, Pbyjician, Trieste. It is most frequently communicated by the touch.

It has been given by a flower held and smelt at, full by two persons who remained free, then by a third, who was seized and died in twenty-four hours.

A Jew Physician of Smyrna. The infection is in reality communicated by the touch alone; for all who keep from contact of infefted persons or things remain free. To the effect of contact, however, a certain disposition of the air is necessary; for we often fee infefted persons arrive from other countries, yet the disease does not spread. But what this disposition is, can scarcely be conceived. Commonly, in this climate, the

disease appears at the end of spring, and continues to the middle of summer, with this particularity, that in cloudy weadrer, and during the firocco wind, the attacks are more frequent. Also, in the fame diathesis of the air, some receive the infection, while others exposed to the fame dangers escape it. From observation it appears, that cacheftic persons, and those of constitutions abounding in acid, do not readily take it.

The contagious miafms may lie dormant in the body for some time without doing the least harm, till set in motion by sudden fear, or the excessive heat of a bath.

Fra. Luigi di Pavia, Prior of the Hospital of San Antonia at Smyrna. The plague is communicated by contact, according to all the observations I have been able to make for eighteen years.

2. Does the Plague ever rife spontaneously ? Question

Second.

Raymond. Incontestible experience daily proves that it only proceeds from contact.

Demollins. From all ages, the plague has only been brought to Marseilles by merchandise, or persons from beyond sea.

Giovanelli. As the disease always appears with the fame symptoms, it is probably not spontaneous, but the consequence of a particular contagion.

They. Some contagious fevers come of themselves, others proceed from the communication of contagion. The plague is thought to have originated in Egypt, and spread itself from thence.

F

Morandi.

THE PLAGUE.

Sect. Ill,

34

Morandi. Contagious fevers do not arise of themselves, but are always theproduft of a peculiar poison.

Verdoni. I know no fever that can properly be called contagious, and doubt if even the plague can be considered as such. My realbns are drawn from the very different manner in which the plague appears in different years; and the different degree in which it spreads. I therefore conclude that contagious fevers come of themselves.

Jew Physician. According to the mod ancient authorities, the plague has always been brought to Smyrna by contagion, and was never produced here.

Fra, Luigi. Ancient and common observation in this city proves that the plague is derived solely from contagion.

Question j. To what dislancs is the Air round the patient infilled ? How far does aljual contaR— 1HIKD- wearing infilled clothes, or touching other things—.produce the disease

Raymond. The infefted are conversed with without danger across a barrier which separates them only a few paces.

Demollins. The air round the patient is infefted more or less according to the degree-of the poilbn which exhales. Here, in the lazaretto, they are spoken with across two barriers a few paces from each other, without fear of contagion. Hence it would appear that the plague is communicated only by the touch, or still' more by wearing infefted clothes.

Giovanelli. If one speaks of an infefted person shut up in an unventilated chamber, it may be said that the whole atmosphere is dangerous; but if one lpealcs of a patient exposed to the open air, it has been proved that the sphere of infection does not extend beyond five geometrical pacts from his body. Beyond this distance one is in safety. The actual touch of an infefted person or thing is proved to be very dangerous by fatal experience; but to what degree, is not ascertained.

They. The infection only extends forne paces; and the miafms at the chtlance of ’bout ten paces are so corrected by the air, as to lose all their activity. It may, be communicated by touching infefted things, especially of a porous nature, as cloth, wool, skins, &c.

Verdoni. From the moment of infection, to the time when nature has entirely diffi-pated the contagious principle, which usually happens in forty days, there is always a capacity of communicating infection. The degree of infection is in proportion to the volume of air surrounding the patient; the air being whatabforbs, dissipates and destroys the contagious principle. Infefted substances communicate the disease for many years, in proportion to the ventilation they have undergone, or of which they are fufeeptible.

Jew Physician. The degree of infection in the air about the sick depends upon the greater or less malignity of the disease, and other circumstances. The air about poor patients is more infectious than about the rich. These things being established, I am of

opinion,.

SrcT. III.

THE PLAGUE.

35

yi

opinion, that in the greatest contagion one may securely fee a patient at the diltance of two ells (four braccia) if the chamber windows be not all Unit.

■Fra. Luigi. The infection is greater or less in proportion to the virulence of the contagion; but I have made no observation as to the distance. The disease is communicated by contact of all infefted things, and by close inlpiration of the breath of the sick.

4. What are the Seajons in which the Plague chiefly appears; and what is the interval between the Infection and the Disease

Raymond. The plague shews itself at all seasons; but leis at the two solstices.

Demollins. Great ravages may be made in all seasons, but principally in the greatest heats of summer.

From the infection to the disease is two or three days.

Giovanelli. The plague appears at all times, in the same manner as poisons at all times produce their effects. But observation Iliews that its ravages are greater in hot seasons than in cold; and it seems that summer and the first months of autumn are most to be dreaded.

There is no certainty as to the interval between the infection and the disease, as it depends on the particular constitution of the patient.

They. Warm moist seasons contribute to the production of all contagious diseases. The interval from the infection to the seizure is various, according to the virulence of the poison and the constitution of the patient. Sometimes it acts llowly, sometimes like a stroke of lightning.

Verdoni. The spring is the principal season.

Generally the disease shews itself at the instant of the touch, like an electrical shock. Sometimes a person retains the contagious principle without any sensible effect, and after several days communicates it unknowingly to a third, in whom, if predifpoled to the disease, it becomes active; or otherwise, it may be communicated to others successively in the fame way, till it becomes dissipated and annihilated, as happened at Smyrna in 1783. In bodies predisposed it very rarely conceals itself till the third day.

Jew Physician. Answered in the first.

Fra. Luigi. The plague is most fatal in Smyrna from April to July; and it is constantly observed that great colds and heats much diminish it, and copious dews •extinguish it.

The infection shews itself in twenty-four hours, more or less, according to the difference of temperament.

5. What are the first Symptoms of the Plague—are they not frequently a swelling of the Glands of the Groin and Armpit

F 2

Question

Fourth.

Question

Fifth.

Raymond.

THE P L A G U E.

Sect. III.

i

'■)

' \

I

v | ,

Raymond. The plague often conceals itself under the form of an inflammatory, ardent, or malignant fever. Tumours of the Glands are sometimes its first symptom.

Demoi.lins. The first symptoms of the plague vary; but the most common are buboes in the armpit and groin, parotids, and carbuncles in various parts of the body.

Giovanelli. The first symptoms are, debility, fever, excessive thirst followed by great heat; after which, carbuncles or buboes appear in the parotids, armpits, and groin. This last is sooner attacked than the armpit.

They. Swellings in the armpits and groin are, indeed, the characteristics of the plague; yet they are neither the foie, nor the first symptoms; and often are not seen at all, as when the plague disguises itself under the form of other diseases.

Morandi. Glandular swellings are properly the symptom of the second stage, and are preceded by those febrile symptoms which are immediately consequent upon the reception of the contagion; such as, pain in the head, drowsiness, great prostration of strength, dryness of the tongue, vomiting, hiccough, tremor, diarrhasa.

Verdoni. Its first symptoms are relative to the constitution of the year, and of the body ieized, and the place where it was produced, or whence it came. In 1783 all the parts of Natalia were infefted; and the disease transported to Smyrna, which is in the centre, was extinguished without the death of a Angle person. Generally, the plague of Constantinople transported to Smyrna does little harm. That of Egypt causes havock as in every country. That of the Thebais is always cruel, and carried to lower Egypt is fatal. The inguinal glands are the most generally affected.

Jew Physician. The swelling of the glands is seldom the first symptom. Patients are every day seen, who, being supposed ill of another disorder, in two, three, or more days shew glandular swellings or carbuncles, by which the plague is manifested. On the contrary, many, who from the usual signs are supposed to have the plague, become well in a day or two without the least tumour or external appearance. The first symptoms are, horripilation, or actual fliivering, nausea or vomiting, loss of strength, and fever. These are common to many diseases; but the pathognomonic signs are, a difference in tire pulsations of the two fidcs, with this circunrftance, drat from this diversity a prognostic arises; it having been observed, that if the pulse on the fide of the tumour or carbuncle be greater or more frequent, it bodes well; whereas if it be smaller, it shews greater malignity, and there is more to be feared. Further, there is observed among the first iymptoms a visible pulsation in the carotids, greatest on the affetfted fide; and also a crystalline vivacity in the eyes, with a kind of contradlion and diminution of the eye on the fide affected.

Fra. Luigi. The most remarkable symptoms of the plague are, turbidnefs and spark-ling of the eyes, the tongue furred with a white mucus, and very red at its tip, frequent biting of the lips, violent pain in the head and inability to hold it up, a sense

of

Sect. III.

THE PLAGUE.

37

of great cold in the loins, vomiting, debility. Swellings of the glands are not among the first symptoms.

6. Is it true that there are two different fevers with nearly the fame symptoms, one of which is properly termed, the Plague, and is communicated from a distance by the air, and without contain; while the other, which is properly termed Contagion, is only communicated by the touch, or at leaf by near approach to infebled persons or things

Moranoi. It is certain from multiplied oblervations, that there are two forts of pefti-lential fevers, similar in appearance; one of which proceeds from the contamination of the air alone, and is communicable to any distance; the other is produced alone by contact, or near approach. The former of these is properly termed a pestilential fever, the latter a contagious one.

Verdoni. The distinction of these fevers is useless, since the fame which is communicated by the touch is that also which is conveyed by the air to a certain distance, especially in a close place.

Jew Physician. That there are two kinds of plague is absolutely to be denied; yet sometimes it happens that persons are attacked with the plague without knowing whence it came.

Fra. Luigi. I hold it for certain that there is only one species of plague, though differing in malignity.

7. What is the Method of Treatment in the first ft age — what in the more advanced periods — what is known concerning Bark, Snakeroot, Wine, Opium, pure Air, the application of cold Water

Raymond. The disease is treated as inflammatory. No specific has been discovered for it.

Demollins. At the beginning, bleeding, vomiting, purgatives, diluents, refrigerants and antiseptics are used; afterwards, antiseptics and cordials, relatively to the temperament and symptoms.

Giovanelh. The plague, causing always a disposition to inflammation, and putrefaction, it is always proper to bleed proportionally to the strength, and to use a cooling regimen, with the vegetable acids. The repeated use of emetics is also proper, both to cleanse the first passages, and to dispose the virus to pass off by the skin. In the progress, it is necessary to favour the evacuation of the virus by that issue which nature seems to point at. Thus, either antiphlogistic purgatives are to be given, if nature points that way; or suppurative plasters are to be applied to any tumours which may appear. Epifpaftics to the extremities are proper where nature wants rousing. The vitriolic acid in large doses has been found very serviceable in the plague with carbuncles, as was proved in the last plague at Moscow. When the inflammation is over, and marks of lup-

puration

Question

Sixth.

Question

Seventh.

THE PLAGUE.

Sect. III.

n

Question

Seventh.

I V

j

puration appear, the bark with wine and other cordials is proper. The surgeon’s afiidance is requiiite in the treatment of boils and anthraxes, which lad are seldom cured without the actual cautery.

They. In the beginning of pestilential fevers, bleeding is sometimes proper, and vomits almod always. In their progress, frequent subacid and cold drinks, the bark given liberally, and vitriolic acid, have been found powerful remedies when there was a diffolu-tion of the blood.

Morandi. In the first period, evacuations according to the peculiar circumstances of the case are proper. In the second, bark mixed with wine; and opium as a temporary sedative. Pure air is very necessary; and fire, as a corredtive, with the burning of antifep-tic and aromatic substances.

Verdoni. As soon as a Christian finds he has got the plague, he eats caviare, garlic and pork; drinks brandy, vinegar and the like, to raise the buboes. Upon these he applies greasy wool, caviare, honey of roses, dried figs &c. to bring them to suppuration.

The Turks and Arabs drink bezoar in powder with milk, and other sudorifics, to expel the virus. They vomit, and possibly a second time.

At Cairo they take opium, and cover themselves with mattresses in order to excite sweat; and though parched with heat and third, they drink nothing. They open the immature buboes with a red-hot iron.

At Condantinople and Smyrna they eat nothing, and drink much water and lemonade. The Jews drink a decoction of citron feeds, lemon or Seville orange peel, and their own urine. They abdain fcrupuloufiy from animal food.

In 1700 a physician in Smyrna found bleeding very useful. Another, in another year, cured the plague by bleeding and an antiphlogidic regimen.

My brother in Cairo treated it like a pituitous biliary fever, with vomits, saponaceous attenuants, and antiphlogidics, and successfully.

Some sailors in Condantinople in the phrensy of the plague, have thrown themselves into the sea; and it is said that on being taken out, they have recovered.

My opinion upon the whole is, that the treatment ought to be relative to the particular conditution of the year, and of the patient, by which the nature of the disease itself is greatly varied.

Jew Physician. Bleeding in many cases may be serviceable, as I have known patients who were bled by midake, recover; and others recovered from a mod desperate condition by a spontaneous haemorrhage. On the other hand, persons have been apparently injured by both these circumstances. The difference of effect seems to depend on the date of the blood, whether it be disposed to coagulation or dissolution. In the former, bleeding is uleful, in the latter, hurtful. Vomits according to my experience have not succeeded; yet I diould not hesitate to try ipecacuanha in fubdance, exhibiting half a scruple at two or three times, in the expectation that in this manner it would not run downwards. Bark

may

Sect. III.

THE PLAGUE.

39

may be of use in dissolutions of the blood; and also small doses of opium, and other medicines prudently administered. In excessive watchfulness I have known relief procured by anointing the temples with Ung. populeon. In a case of hiccough the Liquor Anod. Miner. Hoffmanni succeeded with me.

The Turks, in the violence of the fever, take handfuls of snow and apply it over their bodies, and also eat it; and likewise sometimes throw cold water on their feet. But whether this is of service or no, cannot be determined; as these people in other respects pay no regard to rules of diet.

Fra. Luigi. They who practise empirically in the plague use none of the recited methods, but only strong. sudorifics, and ventilation of the air; and complete the cure by proper treatment of the fores from suppuration.

8. When the Plague prevails, do the physicitms prescrihe to those who have the disorder a more generous, or a more abjlemious diet; and do they prejtribe any thing to the uninfebled

Jew Physician. In times of the plague, many are accustomed to eat no Belli; others, no fish; but I know not whether from the advice of physicians. For myself, I have been in many plague-years, but have made no alteration in- the management of myself.

Fra. Luigl In Smyrna, the plague is generally treated with a rigorous diet. They only use rice and vermicelli boiled in water; and sometimes, when the patient is too costive, juices and herbs boiled without any feafor.ing. From time to time they give some acid preserves, and raifi'ns, and in great heats feme (lender lemonade, and a dish of good coffee with a biscuit every day. For drink they only use toast and water; and they follow this abstemious regimen till the fortieth day of the disease is completed; after which they take chicken broth, lamb, and other food of easy digestion.

9. Are Convalescents fuljedt to repeated attacks from the same hfettion

Raymond. Not unless they touch something infected.

Demollins. Convalescents are sent to fumigated chambers, and there are no- instances of relapse.

Giovanelli. No infbinces of relapse after being well recovered from the first attack have come to my knowledge; but- they are liable to fail into other disorders, as consumption, hasmoptoe &c.

They. Convalescents are without doubt liable to a relapse, and authors are full-of instances of it. In the plague of Messina, M. Cotogno fays that a man had successively. fourteen buboes, and was cured at last.

Morandi. All convalescents may relapse.

Verdoni. They haye it not twice in the same year.-

Jew Physician. Convalescents are often attacked anew, and die; but this does not usually happen from a fresh infection taken elsewhere, but from some remains of their own contagion, excited by intemperance in food, or the venereal act.

Quest i ok Eighth.

Question

Nintr.

Fra.

4°

THE

PLAGUE.

Sect. III.

i

Fra. Luigi. From irregularities in eating and drinking, bodily fatigue, affections of the mind, and especially anger, they are liable to repeated and very dangerous relapses.

Question io. IVhat is the proportion of Deaths, and the usual length of the disease

Tf NTH.

Raymond. The mortality is different in different seasons and years.

Demoluks. In the plague of Marseilles in 1720 half the inhabitants periShed. The usual length of the disease is that of other acute disorders, but longer when the tumours come to suppuration.

Giovanelli. The proportion of deaths is variable and uncertain. As to duration, when the disease is very acute and fatal, the patient generally dies within five days from the first invasion of the fever, or first marks of the plague. When he recovers, no certain termination can be assigned. If the time of healing all the fores be reckoned, it may run on to three, four, five months, or more.

They. The mortality is very various. Of ten whom I treated in the lazaretto, three died. I have observed that the fever usually runs on to twenty or twenty-one days.

Morandi. The bills of mortality of places visited by the plague usually amount to about thirty per cent, sometimes they rife to fifty. (Ide seems to mean of the whole number of inhabitants.)

Verdoni. The proportion of deaths varies infinitely. It has been observed that the Jews in Constantinople and Smyrna lose only one third, which is attributed to the care they take of their sick. At Cairo, on the other hand, they are the first attacked, and lose more than three fourths. The Turks lose two thirds; other nations a little more or less: the Europeans at Cairo lose five sixths.

Sometimes it kills immediately; sometimes in twenty-four hours; commonly in three days. When the patient gets over the ninth day, there are great hopes of recovery, as the buboes are then suppurated. They may, however, die within the fortieth day, especially if they commit any irregularity, the principal of which is eating flesh, which instantly causes a return of fever, and death. It never passes beyond the fortieth day.

Jew Physician. The mortality is various, as also the duration. Some die in two, three, or four days; some hold out fix, eight or more.

Fra. Luigi. Generally more die than survive; but in our hospital of San Antonio of Smyrna, from the care taken of the sick, the number recovering has for eighteen years past exceeded that of the dead.

Question ii. IVhat are the Means to prevent the Plague, to flop its contagion, and to purify

Eleventh. infected places?

Raymond. There is no other method of preserving one’s-self from the plague, than avoiding the contadc of infected things. Goods are purified by exposing them to the open air during forty days; and furniture by a strong fumigation with aromatics and fiilphur.

Demoli.ins.

Sect. III.

THE P L A G U E.

41

Demollins. Here, in the lazaretto, infefted goods and furniture are exposed to a Question current of air for forty days. The air ofinfefted places is purified by burning all forts ELElE:>r"' of aromatic plants, and sulphur.

Giovanelli. The method of prevention is, to avoid all communication with infefted persons or goods. The means of flopping the contagion form a body of police, too extensive to be here mentioned.

They. The means of prevention, besides avoiding infefted things and persons, are, sobriety in living, the use of vinegar externally and internally, and an issue.

Infefted places are purified by fumigation and ventilation, by scraping the lime from the walls (which is then thrown into the sea) and white-washing them anew with lime and sea water, by washing the floors, windows, doors &c. first with sea water, then with vinegar; taking great care to leave nothing that is infefted. The bodies of the dead are buried in a place set apart for that purpose; and their beds and bedding are burned. As to other things, not used during the illness, the linen is waffled with soap and ley; the woollen clothes are put into sea water for two days, and then ventilated for twenty days; those which would be spoiled by water are hung on a line in the air for forty days, and fumigated from time to time according to their quality.

Morandi. A fire is to be kept constandy in the sick chamber, in all seasons. All feces &c. are to be immediately removed. Clean shirt and sheets daily. The healthy muff avoid commerce with the infefted; muff purge gently now and then, smoke tobacco, drink pure wine medicated with wormwood, gentian, zedoary &c. and avoid fear and other passions, and excess of all kinds.

Jew Physician. No means of prevention are used in the Turkish dominions.

Fra. Luigi. The means used for flopping the contagion are purifying places and things by fire, water, and air.

Verdoni. The befl preservatives are reckoned to be, sprinkling the room with vinegar, perfumes, ventilation, and fumigation. The Greeks in Smyrna, during Lent, when they eat only vegetables, are very seldom attacked; while among those who eat flesh the contagion makes great havock. Hence the befl means of prevention are to eat moderately, and not at all of animal food; to drink water and vinegar;* to sprinkle the chamber with the latter, and use frequent ventilation; to change the clothes, especially the linen, daily, hanging in the air for ten or fifteen days those that have been used. For suppressing the infection, every thing is to be washed that can undergo that operation, and the walls of the chamber to be whitened with lime; but after the 24th of June ijo further care is taken.

OBSERVATIONS.

* A person in a very high llation at Conllantinople, told me, that when he had the plague in that city, he lived almost entirely on green lea; to which he attributed his per fed cure of that disorder: and I mud add, I have heard of some who have made the fame use of brandy, and yet have recovered.

G The

1

j

l

42

THE PLAGUE.

Sect. III.

OBSERVATIONS.

Though there are various points in which the answerers of the preceding questions disagree, yet it is with pleasure I observe that they all in the most explicit manner concur in representing the plague as a contagious disease, communicated by near approach to, or actual contact with infected persons or things. This is a fact of the greatest importance to be established, as all the proposed means of prevention by cutting off communication with the sources of infettion, must depend upon it: it is a fact too, which one would suppose after such manifold and repeated experience, no one would now call in question. Yet a late medical writer of ieputation, Dr. Maximilian Stoll of Vienna, has not scrupled publicly to hazard an opinion, that the plague is not contagious; and this even with a view to the natural but most dangerous consequence, that the usual means of preventing its spread from one country to another by restrictions on commercial intercourse, are unnecessary and improper. This doctrine is afierted in his Pars Jecunda Rationis Medendi, printed at Vienna in 1778 (Vid. p. 59 and Jeq.). It does not belong to me to enter into a medical disputation on this head; yet I cannot avoid observing, that it appears very strange and fulpicious, that he should go back to Livy's Roman History for proofs to establish his point, totally neglecting all the fads concerning the numerous visitations of the plague recorded in modern medical books, or which had happened during his own time. I suppose profefiional men will lay very

The ingenious Dr. Schotte, in a treatise on a contagious fever, which raged at Senegal in the year 177S, and proved fatal to the great eft part of the Europeans, and to a number of the natives, (published in 1782 by Murray in Fleet-street) considers the following among the predifpofng causes of the disease-the garrison fubfilling, during the whole year, chiefly upon animal food, particularly upon fresh beef which is supplied by the Moors;—the brackifti well-water in which their victuals are boiled, and which serves them as constant drink ;—the impure air breathed by many of the slaves, who are locked up together in the fame room during the night;—and the want of motion during the day time, which the irons on their feet impose on them.

Among the means of preventing the disease, the doctor mentions the necessity of temperance in eating, drinking &c. yet he acknowledges that governor Clarke lived very regularly in every respect; he “ took the tincture of of bark and bitters three times a day, and used every other precaution to avert the disease, but ineffedhially.” This German phyftcian has laid much in praise of wine, and tells us: ec From my own experience I believe “ that wine has in some degree a power of expelling a newly-received infection, or at least of contributing towards “ its expuiflon. And the use of this with farfaparilta he thinks was the means of curing himself of that disease << yet” he adds, page 158; 4t as the only European, who escaped this disease entirely, did not make the lead use of 44 any spirituous liquor, I would confine my advice to such persons only, as are accustomed to it. The person in “ question, who affords this very sinking exception, is a Mr. Hare, master of a merchant ship, who had been of at Senegal backwards and forwards for several times, but was redding there, at the time the disease raged, and *< for two years before. He was more exposed to the infection than many others, for he lived in the house of a <* dreadful-looking patient, who was swelled and puffed up, before he died, like a putrid corpse. He also waited *f on him out of humanity day and night, because the blacks were afraid of going near him, on account of his “ most dreadful appearance. He never drank a drop of any spirituous liquor, not even beer or cyder, and he “ told me, that he had not for ten years past, but that he had made use of it before that time. His only drink " at meals was water, and plenty of tea and coffee in the morning and afternoon. He made not the least use of “ tobacco in any form, and took no precaution whatever to prevent the infection.”

little

Sect. III.

T I-I E PLAGUE.

43

little stress upon all that can be laid of pestilential diseases in general which happened in wars and lieges two thousand years ago, as applied to the plague properly Jo called, a disease then confounded with various others, from which the accuracy of later observations have sufficiently discriminated it. This extraordinary mode of reasoning on such an important subject, too much confirms the account I received of the matter in Germany; which was, that with a view of ingratiating himself with the prince in whose service he lived, and who might be supposed desirous of getting rid of the expense and inconvenience of lazarettos and other establishments for the prevention of contagion. Dr. Stoll had been induced to make an attack upon the principle upon which every precaution of this kind mud depend. * I must, however, observe in his vindication, that at the beginning of this century, the faeulty of medicine in Paris gave a decisive opinion against the contagious nature of the plague, and their delegates acted conformably to this doctrine in the case of the dreadful visitation of Marseilles in 17 20: the bad effefls of which prepossesston are shewn in a very sensible manner by Mr. Bertrand, in his admirable relation of that calamity. It is also observable, that in the foregoing answers, Dr. Verdoni, in replying to the second query, from theory denies that any fever can properly be termed contagious, though under some of the other heads of inquiry, he asserts with as much confidence as the rest, that the plague is actually communicated by contadl. Such are the effects of a preconceived hypothesis in perplexing or obfeuring the platnejl matter of fact

ABSTRACT OF A CURATIVE AND PRESERVATIVE METHOD

TO BE OBSERVED IN PESTILENTIAL CONTAGIONS:

Drawn up by order of the Magistrates of Health at Venice, at the RequeJ) of the Court of Russia. By Giambatista Paitoni, frf Physician.

march 1, 1784.

No certain distinguishing sign of the plague, not even buboes, earbuncles &c. but only made manifest by its ravages.—Miftakes of great physicians in this matter: — when equivocal symptoms occur, it is prudent immediately to use precautions, efpe-dally the separation of suspected persons.—No specific hitherto discovered. — The essence of the pestilential contagion probably always the fame; and the variety of phenomena observed in its different visitations, owing to differences in climate, air, seasons, mode of living &c. — This contagion, a very subtle and penetrating poison afling directly upon the nervous system; which must prove fatal if not expelled.—Hence all those remedies which- tend to invigorate the natural powers are proper; and

* Have not Tome of our Professors, fuilied their names with such dangerous doctrines ?—From no other cause than the error of the physicians, who conilantly maintained that the disease then epidemic was not contagious, happened that terrible visitation which in 1743 ravaged the city of MeJJhia and its vicinity, with the lob of above forty-three thousand individuals, in the ihort space of only three months.

G 2 those

Observa-

tions.

Abstract.

44

THE PLAGUE.

Sect. III.

Venetian

Abstract.

those which debilitate, hurtful.—Bleeding, therefore, not admissible.—Nor purging.—Two modes of effecting a cure; one by art, the other by nature.

1. That by art is the use of sudorifics, recommended by many writers of the highest reputation, particularly, Sydenham and Diemerbroeck.—Simples for this purpose, viz. contrayerva, serpent. virg. rad. angel, emuela campan. petafitis, gentian, camphor &c. Compounds, theriaca, mithridate, diafeordium &c.—Camphor, sulphur, and theriaca preferred.— This method to be put in practice without delay.—To begin with friflions with fumigated cloths.—Fomentations.—Copious drinking, particularly water with belt vinegar.—Not to be allowed to deep during the sweat, nor to change linen till it be finished.—Diaphoretics from time to time.—No ventilation of the chamber during the sweat; but fumigation with aromatics, lprinkling vinegar, a fire if cold weather.

1. The natural method of cure is the expulsion of the poilon to the glands and skin. Of these external appearances, buboes are the moll: important and useful.—They should not be livid or black, soft or puffy, nor increase all at once to a great size.—When they have begun to appear, the sweating plan should not be adopted.—To be quickly brought to suppuration, by emollient and gummy plasters; and either buffered to open Ipon-taneouffy, or opened by ait, but not till perfectly maturated.—Carbuncles less favourable than buboes: — to be treated mildly, and not with cautery and incision: — cataplafms or plasters of emollient herbs to be used; then ointments, cerates &c.

If particular symptoms are unfually troublesome, they must be attended to separately. Of these the mod considerable is fever.—This is sometimes periodical, and then bark is proper.

Cutaneous efflorefcences are dangerous; petechine, if livid or black, almost always fatal.

Diarrhoeas and haemorrhages from any part, dangerous, and should be llopt as soon as possible.

For obstinate vomitings, the belt remedy is lemon juice and salt of wormwood.

Somnolency and watchfulness are each at times prevalent. The former to be prevented by agreeable discourse, or smelling to volatiles; the latter, by theriaca or diafeordium. The fame electuaries alone, or joined with camphor or castor, may be given in head-ach or delirium, at the same time enjoining perfect quiet.

Fainting and deliquiums to be treated with aromatics and cordials; convulsive motions, coughs, difficult respiration &c. to be gently quieted widr theriaca, but not the warmer opiates.—Terror and dripair great enemies to patients in this dileafe, preventing the salutary operations of the fyftern.—To be removed by proper discourse, exhortation, hope &c.

PRESERVATION FROM THE PLAGUE.

To dwell in houses well detached from the infefted, and admit no infefted person or thing.—Habitation kept clean, and all filth removed.—Ventilation.—Windows only open while the fun is up.—Fires in each chamber, especially of odorous woods.—Flowers and aromatics strewed in the rooms.—Sprinkling with vinegar.—Fumigations with resinous and balsamic matters.

Prophylactics

Sect. III.

THE PLAGUE.

45

Prophyladlics for those exposed to contagion.—The compound eledtuaries, and vinegar internally.—Flower of sulphur. camphor, galega. bitter and aromatic vegetables, volat. spirits. elix. proprietatis.

Food and drink to be used as found by experience to agree at other times.—Acid herbs in sallad.—Acid fruits.—A light briflc wine, with water, the belt for common drink.— In some cases wine not to be allowed.—Purgatives not proper without forne particular reason for their use.—Not to go out till the fun be risen, and then not fading.—To avoid near approach to the infected, or touch of infefted things.—The nostrils to be guarded by stuffing up some odorous matter, as fp. fal. ammon. ol, fuccini and especially vinegar in a sponge.—The mouth guarded by chewing aromatics, as zedoary, ginger, juniper berries &c.—The pores of the skin to be guarded by clothes perfumed with aromatics, bags worn of the fame, aromatized unguents rubbed on various parts of the body.

The spirits to be supported by amusements, mirth &c.—Effedls of music &c.

ABRIDGMENT OF A RELATION OF THE PLAGUE OF SPALATO

IN THE YEAR 17 84,

Given in a Letter from an Officer to his Fellow-Citizen in Venice.

PRINTED AT VENICE IN 1784.

In July 1782 the plague was reported to be in Turkilh Bosnia, and aline of troops in consequence was polled on the frontiers; but on the news that the disease was only a common epidemic, this was withdrawn. The plague, however, breaking out with great fury in the capital city of Serraglio, the line was again placed in June 1783.

The danger was the greater, as in the famine of 1782 many inhabitants of Venetian Dalmatia had gone into the adjacent Imperial and Turkish territories, whence it might be expected that they would now return.

At the end of June 1783 the plague broke out in the town of Dolaz in Paglizza, where it was brought by the returning emigrants.

Cajerns, or wooden huts, were erected for the reception of all the emigrants, under the inspection of the military polls in the frontiers.

In August, the disease appeared among the caferns, near the poll of Billibrigh, and spread to the national militia there encamped.

Soon after, it appeared in the large town of Etuazza in the territory of Sign, and spread to many other places of that distridl.

In September, the plague broke out in the suburbs of Clifla, the territory of which immediately borders on that of Spalato, on which account a reparation was made by means of flockades and bars. The maritime towns and islands were Hill allowed free communication with each other.

In

Venetian

Abstract.

Spalato

Abridg-

ment.

4-6

THE PLAGUE.

Sect. III.

Spalato Aeridg-

ME NT.

a,

A

In October, the territory of Knin appeared to be infefted.

The district of Clilfa was first freed from the contagion, its quarantines being completed in February 1784, after the death of three hundred and twenty persons.

Next to that, the territory of Knin became free, with the loss of two hundred and sixteen.

Lastly, Sign was difinfefted, after twelve hundred and fieventy-six deaths.

On January 30th 1784, one Simon Chiapiglia of the borough of Luzaz, adjoining to Spalato, after a fever of five days, was found to have a tumour in the groin of a suspicious nature, especially as lie had been employed as a porter in a lazaretto, from whence, after his quarantine, he had been dismissed on January 21ft. He was put under close guard, but the next day, being delirious and attempting to escape, he was Ihot by the centinel, and killed. No further marks of suspicion appeared on the body. His family were put in the lazaretto, but remained in health.

On February 5th, a boy died after an illness of four days on board a Rovignefe vessel, laden with wool, skins, bags &c. belonging to Ottoman subjects of Bolhia, which goods had undergone purification in a lazaretto. The boy’s diieafe was declared by the physician to be only a verminous fever. The vessel failed away on February 9th, and on the 2iff put into Porto Cigalle in the island of Loflin Piccolo, where the mafber and two sailors were taken ill, and soon died. This excited an alarm, and the two remaining sailors and goods were put in a lazaretto, along with three galley Haves, and all undetwent a thorough purification. But neither these sailors, who wore the clothes of their deceased comrades, nor the (laves, were attacked with any sickness.

On the 10th of March, some deaths, after snort illness began to take place in Spalato; in such, however, the physicians recognized no contagious quality.

On March 15th, a woman died with petechias, which caused so much suspicion that the physiciarts recommended particular precautions with respect to all who had been about her, or handled the body.

Other suspicious deaths succeeded, but without certain proof of contagion; however on the night between March 28th and 29th, fix deaths happening after a very short illness, caused the reality of the contagion to be scarcely doubted of, though still the signs of the plague were equivocal.

On March 30th, news arrived that the persons placed in the lazaretto from suspicion on account of the woman above mentioned, had Men ill. Five more died this night; and on the view of their bodies, the physicians declared them JuJpeSled-, but a Venetian surgeon did not scruple to call the disease openly the plague. A buboe was this day found on a patient.

The Prcveditor General now assembled the college of health, and laid an interdict on the whole city, lhircting up the churches, and cutting off all communication with the rest of the province.

He himself with the public officers, soldiers &c. to the number of one hundred and nineteen persons, flint themselves up in the generality-palace, ficuated without the city, but

contiguous to the walls, pjj

4 I

Sect. III.

THE PLAGUE.

47

All the cities in the different territories had orders to separate themselves from each other; and the coast-line of troops was armed.

The public lazaretto was also detached within proper limits.

On April 3d, the proveditor issued the proclamation annexed, for the regulation of the city.

The contagion now began to lpread in every part of the city and suburbs, and through all ranks of people. It got even into a monastery, where an abbess and fomenuns died.

The first mode of reparation practised, was to place a large number of wine-vats in a certain part called Brecchia, to serve as receptacles for the raoft suspected persons of the city, who were taken out of the infected houses, and lodged there.

A large house, and some other adjacent ones in the borough of Luzaz were then set apart as an hospital for the infected.

A camp was then formed in St. Stefano, a remote and open place, into which the suspected, after washing in the sea, and change of all their garments, were taken. Many soldiers and town’s people were received into this, moll of whom were thereby preserved from infection.

Another camp was afterwards formed, in a different situation, for the fame purpose. All these were provided with a deputation of health from the city, guardians, officers, inspedors See. and a report from them was sent every morning to the supreme authority.

A second hospital was established in another part of the suburbs.

The quarter of S. Domenico was evacuated of its inhabitants, and applied to the purpose of a lazaretto; and a convent in it was reserved for the nobility and principal families.

Forty-six days had now elapsed since the manifest eruption of the plague, and yet no accident had happened in the generality-palace, when suddenly two galley Haves employed there were seized and died; but it was impossible to discover how they caught it. On this account, the proveditor, accompanied only by the persons moll necessary to the management of public business, seceded to Caftello Vitturi, and the rest were sent to the lazarettos.

In an infefted city there are three conditions of suspected persons.

1. Simply JiifpeSled. These include all the inhabitants of the city, and they are allowed to walk about freely with the proper cautions, and at certain hours.

1. Grievously JuJpeRed. These are such as have had any communication with persons infefted: they are confined to their habitations.

3. Most JuJpetded; who are those in whose families the disease has appeared. These are removed from their houses, and after the sick are sent to the hospital, the rest are sent to the camps, where huts are erected for each individual; in which having passed forty days, they afterwards lpend forty more in a lazaretto.

The convalescents were placed in a lazaretto by themselves.

As is was desireable to clear the city as much as possible of inhabitants, many of the families of nobility were received into the palace after it had been purified; and many goods of all kinds were sent to the lazerettos for purification.

SPALATO

Abridg-

ment.

The

43

THE PLAGUE.

Sect. III.

Spalato

Abridg-

ment.

The dead were conveyed from distant parts to the burying ground, by water, in boats towed by other boats.

From May 25th the mortality began to abate, and this diminution continued, till June 29th, after which none died.

The city of Spalato contains three thousand two hundred inhabitants, and the boroughs about nine thousand. The whole number of deaths was one thousand two hundred and one.

REGULATIONS

Enjoined by his Excellency Francesco Falier, Proveditor General in Dalmatia and Albania for the Republic ^Venice, and Delegate of Health, during the Prevalence of the Plague in the City ^Spalato.

DATED, APRIL 3, 1784.

1. The general contumacy* and interdict of all the families of this city, already prescribed by the college of health, being confirmed; the respective individuals of the fame shall not be permitted to go abroad, excepting only the heads of families, in the times, manners, and with the notices to be declared.

2. The heads of families, in order to provide for the exigences of their households, shall only go out of their habitations with a single servant or other person, and always provided with a note from the office of health.

3. The city is to be divided into fix or more distrifls, according to the judgment of the representatives and college, that the visits and inspections may be rendered more easy to be practised.

4. To each district shall be assigned by the moll reverend the Vicar Capitolary, a canon and a pried: of the moll active and capable, that in conjunction with a deputy appointed by the college, and under the conduct of a guardian of health, they may zealously perform every morning, with the due precautions, the visit of all the houses, in order to ascertain the state of health of each individual, and make a return of the fame to the proper office of health.

5. At fun rising, or at the hour which shall be agreed on by the college, the reverend canons and priests selected for the purpose, shall without fail alienable in the sacristy of the cathedral, in order to proceed to the business of their inspections.

6. At the founding of the great bell of the cathedral, which is to follow at that hour which shall be fixed by the college, and shall serve to give time for the visits, the heads of families may freely go abroad, as in the first and second articles, so that the public vigilance may remain secured that the enjoined visits have been practised; excluding in this rule the magistrates, deputies, ministers and servants of the office of health, to whom it shall be permitted to go out of their houses, and walk through the city, as shall be hereafter declared.

* Contujnada in Italian means the state of reparation and seclusion in which suspected persons are placed during the plague.

7. The

Sect. III.

THE PLAGUE.

49

7. The ringing of the said bell shall continue for the lpace of half an hour, that of every other bell, either of a church or other place, being absolutely prohibited.

8. Those persons alone who sustain public deputations, or other inspections of health, or military office, shall leave their houses before the found of the bell, and continue to that hour which their business or office may require; with the injunction, however, that those who have no public charge or inspection, shall return to their own houses at fix in the evening under the mod rigorous penalties.

9. Whoever finds himself attacked with a disorder of any kind, shall immediately make it known to the deputation at their visit; and if at the moment of the attack the visiting hour shall be palfed, he shall immediately give information of it to the office of health, so that it may directly fall under the notice of the established deputation, and they may apply the suitable remedies; declaring that any one who conceals his own sickness, or in any manner or under any pretext concurs in such concealment, shall incur, in the sass, the penalty of death.

10. On notice given of any kind of distemper to the office of health, the house in which it is verified shall immediately be interdidfed, until the medical professors shall have made the necessary inspection, and determined the quality and true character of the disease.

11. Whoever, belonging to houses interdidfed and guarded on account of deaths happening in them, or any other caule of suspicion, shall dare by themselves, or by the mediation of other persons, or in any other manner, to remove susceptible effects into any other house or place, shall be underltood to have incurred the penalty of death; and in like manner every one who has assisted in, or consented to such removal, or has not disclosed it on knowing it.

12. Whoever shall have about him susceptible effedfs or goods of houses declared in-fedfed, shall immediately make it known to the office or the deputation of health, under pain of death; and if there shall have been goods belonging to the said infedfed houses hidden and concealed by the individuals of the fame, they shall equally of themselves make known the place where they are, on pain of death, to which they will irremijftbly be subjected; as, on the other hand, on disclosing them, they may be allured, on the pledge of the public faith, that when every thing is purified, it shall be carefully restored to the owners.

13. The resolution of the college respecting the shutting up of all the churches of this city remains confirmed; and all assemblies in all other places are to be considered as prohibited.

14. The zeal of the moll reverend the Vicar Capitolary excites him to command those religious whom he shall appoint among the most capable and active, to aid and assist by every possible means the infected and suspected poor of the separated houses, and always, with the due cautions, to administer to the fame the spiritual comforts of the most holy sacraments, exhorting and animating them not to distruft the merciful aid of heaven.

H

15. And

SpALATO

Regula-

tions.

L'A

5°

THE P L A G U E.

Sect. III.

I

SPALATO

Regula-

tions.

15. And since in this city there is a ward of Jews, a nation ftngularly to be observed on i'uch an occasion, the college shall therefore select from the mod able and honest individuals of the said nation such a number of deputies as they shall think fit, in order that they may watch over the internal government of their people, and the necessary provision for their support.

16. To this effect, it shall be permitted to diofe persons alone who are recognized as the mod prudent to go out of the Jews ward, always provided with a bill of health, in order that they may attend to their own concerns, and those of others; and these persons shall be notified by the above mentioned Jewish deputies to the office of health.

17. All other persons shall continue within the precincts of their own ward, without going out of it on any cause or pretext whatsoever.

18. All the gates of the Jews ward shall be shut, except the great one alone, guarded by the usual guards, who however shall be of the deputation appointed by the college; and this gate shall be without fail shut at fix in the evening, so that no one may go out of the ward.

19. There shall also be appointed by the college two deputies, of the best abilities, out of the body of the Jewish nation, who, escorted by a foot soldier, shall be charged to visit all the houses after fun rife, to inform themselves of the state of health of all the families; and if any person be found sick, to interdidt immediately the house, and give notice without delay, of the circumstance to the office of health, in order for proper inspection and care.

20. It is understood that their Jynagogue is shut, and all their functions suspended, so that no assemblies of any fort shall be held among them.

ai. All the dogs and cats which shall be found wandering either in the city or the Jews ward, as being capable in the present conjundture of causing dangerous effects, shall be killed; to which purpose, the official inspectors, the deputies, and all other public persons of suitable rank, shall be respectively charged with the 1110ft absolute orders.

22. The canons, priests, and deputies of visitation of the respective districts, every morning after they have performed their visit, shall report to the commissioners and to the college all the incidents and discoveries that they have met with, in writing, and specifying the district, name and surname of the families infected or suspected, and the number of which each family consists.

23. Every death which happens shall immediately be returned to the commissioners and the college, with injunction to the physicians, surgeons, and deputies of inspection to bring the attestadon of the circumstances of the case, and examination of the body to the fame commissioners and office of health without delay.

24. All the respective deputations that shall have particular inspection committed to

them by the college concerning the events of the contagion, prevention of the fame, or other business, shall every day report to the commissioners and college what has happened with relation to their inspection, in order that all events of every kind may be always at hand, for the fake of timely prevention. . ,

Sect. III.

THE PLAGUE.

S'

25. And because, amidst the particular objects of attention which ought to be had on such an occahon, it is a very important one, to lighten the city of mendicants, among whom, as among all the lower class, the disease is wont peculiarly to rage, on this account, we confirm the disposition already made by the college for uniting the said mendicants in a suitable place; and the commissioners resolve that they are to be collected and passed over to the Fort of Grippi, chosen for this purpose, where they may remain apart from the city.

26. The college shall appoint a deputy to visit every day in conjunction with a physician and surgeon the said persons, in order to be allured of their state of health, and preserve them if possible from any misfortune.

27. The public charity having condescended to grant to the said mendicants a relief of eight gazettes a head, there shall be appointed by the public representatives one or more persons of probity and activity, in order that with the sum resulting from the whole number, they may be daily, and at proper hours, provided with food and neceflfaries, so as not to perish through want.

28. It shall be the duty of the said persons deputed, to report every morning to the commissioners and representatives the number of the said poor; and also both to the commissioners and the college their state of health, and all incidents relative to them.

29. The public charity being in like manner disposed to give assistance to the poor and indigent inhabitants of the interdicted houses, which otherwise could not maintain themselves, and having fixed the relief of one lira of Dalmatia a head during the distreffied situation in which they are placed, the said representatives shall appoint two or more capable and aCtive deputies, who may every day review the number of such poor, to adjust, day by day, the return of them to be made to the commissioners and representatives.

30. There shall be appointed by the said representatives persons of activity and probity, who, with the aggregate of the sums granted, may make provision for the said poor according to their condition and wants, with that exadlness and attention that their situation demands; and they shall render an account to the representatives, in order to obtain the necessary sums as occasion requires.

( Signed)

Francesco Falier Provedtlor General in Dalmatia and Albania.

H 2

SECTION

Spalato

Regula-

tions.

FOREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

} -

Lyons.

St. Joseph Prison.

La Qoa-

RANTAINE.

General

Hospital.

SECTION IV.

AN ACCOUNT OF FOREIGN PRISONS AND HOSPITALS.

I set out on my last foreign tour in November 1785, and went first to Holland.

I Hayed there a few weeks, and made some observations on the prisons and hospitals. But I will defer my account of these observations; and begin with the prisons and hospitals at Lyons in France, I was there in the latter end of December; and in the prison of St. Joseph there were then about sixty criminals in the inner court, and fourteen in the dark dungeons twelve steps under ground. I perceived, however, l'ome effects of a more liberal spirit towards the prisoners than I had seen in my former visit; for several who were confined in the dungeons at night, were in the day permitted to be in the court; and a new prison is building in which there will be no dungeons, and the rooms for the separation of prisoners, will be less close and confined.*

La Quarantaine (a house built on the bank of the Soane, without the city, for those who fled from the plague at Marseilles in 17-o,) is now uled as a prison for vagabonds and beggars. These are lodged in ten lofty and airy rooms twenty feet square, which open into a corridor about ten feet wide. There are several other rooms, some of which I found occupied by venereal patients, f All the rooms have opposite windows for giving a free passage to the air; and there is allb plenty of water constantly running into Hone troughs. J

La Charite or the General Ilcspital is an excellent inflitution, the establishmenc of which was occasioned by a dreadful famine in France in 1531. The first distribution of bread, during that calamity, was here made to many thousands who crowded into the city. The silk manufacture also, by which the trade of this flourishing city has been so greatly increased, began at that time; and a large manufacture is still carried on in this

* An architect, who was employed in finiiliing the draught of the new prison at Tholouse. told me, that it was built on arcades; had a surrounding wall, and no dungeons; and that each prisoner was confined without irons, in a room about eight feet square and ten high. This information was confirmed to me by an inhabitant of that city.

f Here I saw the surgeon ftupify many of the female patients, by the new and dangerous deception of

animal magnettjm.

\ In the court where I was confined in the lazaretto at Venice, there is a large well, and at the fide of it an ancient circular lone-basin, which Hill continues very convenient for wattling the linen of those in quarantine. I have seen such conveniences in the prisons in Spain, and have often wished to fee them in our own prisons.

hospital,

Sect. IV.

FRANCE.

S3

hospital, in which a great number of children are employed, who are clean, and neatly clothed in — black — white — and blue, to distinguish — the foundlings — legitimate children abandoned by their parents — and orphans. These children are kept in the house till so late an age as twenty-five, that they may contribute somewhat to the expense of their education, and also be better able to maintain themselves after being discharged.*

I was surprised to find the (late of the Hotel-Dieu so different as it was, from my former account. But having not then seen the well-regulated hospitals of Italy and Spain, perhaps I was now too much firuck with the difference; and, perhaps also, an allowance should be made for my now seeing this hospital in the depth of winter. The fumrner white furniture of the beds was changed into a dirty blue harrateen, with useless fringes, well fitted to retain infection. The rooms were nasty and offensive; and two patients in many of the beds, but not one window open; the medical gentlemen here, and also the charitable fifters, being prejudiced against a free circulation of air, as well as against keeping rooms clean by washing them.

There are particular rooms destined for such of the sick as pay twenty-five fous a day. These always lie single, and have some little distindlion in their diet. There is also a room for the purpose of distributing medicines three times a week. An account of these, and many other particulars respefling this extensive charity, may be fecn in a small volume, quarto, entitled, Statute et Reglements Generaux de I’Hotel-Dieu de la mile de Lyon.

A society in this city, called, La Confrairie de la Misericorde, was established in 1636, of the fame kind with one which I formerly found in Italy, and whole principal object is, visiting, afllfting, and succouring prisoners.

At Avignon, the Prison for the province is in the old palace, in which are two large and lofty rooms for men, and one for women, with a chapel. The prisoners January 7, 1786, were fifteen in number, all men, and none in irons. The cruelty of irons would here be very evident; for the thickness of the (lone walls, the proximity of the gaoler’s apartment, and the fierceness of his dogs, mull prevent an escape. On taking notice of the rings, pullies &c. for the torture; the gaoler told me, he had Jeen drops of blood mixed with the sweat, on the breads of some who had differed the torture.

The allowance to the prisoners is one pound and a half of bread a day; but on Sundays and Thursdays they are supplied with a white loaf broth and wine, by Les Freres de misericorde, who also bring them clean linen, every week in fumrner, and once a fortnight in winter. When a criminal is condemned to death, he is informed of his sentence at midnight; and at this hour, these charitable brethren go to him, and conduct him to the chapel; where they continue with him till he is executed, which is about ten o’clock the next morning.

II I procured a publication in quarto, entitled, InJUtution de I’Aumfne generate de Lyon. Sixieme edition. A Lyon, 1662, in which arc many curious particulars, with the plan and regulations of the original hospital.

Lyons

General

Hoseital.

Hotel-

Dieu.

Avignon

Prison.

The

54

FOREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

Avignon

Hospital.

Mar-

seilles.

Hospital.

Toulon

Galleys.

The Hospital contains two spacious wards for men, and two over them for women, with an altar at the end of each ward. The patients are clothed in an uniform ,• and they lie single, in beds about eight feet asunder. At the foot of each bed is written the patient’s name, place of abode, entrance and diet; and likewise the prescriptions of the doctors, who, as well as the religieufes make their visits every day. More attention seems to be paid here to cleanliness and air than at Lyons 3 but yet the surgeon complained that the (low (hospital) fever was produced by the infectious air of the house.

At Marseilles, the Prison at the palace is small, and in January 1786 was crowded with prisoners. The court and rooms below are for criminals, the rooms above for debtors. The criminals (about sixty) lay on barracks, with straw mattresses 5 moll of them were very dirty, but especially the sick. Their bread was good; the allowance two pounds a day; and I was informed that Les Freres de tnifericorde supply them with soup every day, and with clean linen once a week, and visit the prison twice a week.*

In the great Hospital, the patients had iron bedsteads, with curtains and tellers. On the fide of the wards there are covered walks or terraces; very necefliiry for hospitals in cities, which have not the advantage of gardens for convalescent patients. There is a new Itaircafe, which is easy and convenient for the sick (being fix feet wide, the Heps sixteen inches broad, the rises three inches and a half) and, very properly, all of stone, with iron rails.

The Galleys, formerly at Marseilles, are now removed to the arsenal at Toulon. Five were moored near each other, and have their names on the Hern, as the Firm, the Brave, the Intrepid &c. In them there were about sixteen hundred prisoners, who are obliged always to wear a bonnet or cap, on which is fixed a tin plate with a number. Their caps were grey — green — and red, to dish'nguish, — delerters — smugglers — and thieves; these last are always branded before they leave the prison of the place where they were condemned; some with the letter V (for Voleur) others with GAL. on the left shoulder.

These galleys had only one deck. Many of their windows in the roofs were open; and, being swept twice every day, they were clean, and not offensive. The Haves also were kept clean, and their clothing was neat, even in that galley which is appropriated to the aged and infirm. Some of them had been confined forty, fifty, and even sixty years. All have a coat, waillcoat, trousers, two shirts, and a pair of shoes, given them every year; and a great coat every two years. They had good brown bread, well baked, in loaves weighing a pound and three quarters. All had some little allowance in money, and to those who worked was granted an additional allowance of three fous every day for wine. In each galley there were two cantons (little rooms) one for wine, for those who worked for government, the other for the sale of white bread, greens &c.

* I have ivilhed, from a regard to the health of the prisoners, that these friars would employ part of their charity in donations to those of the prisoners who are moil cleanly in their persons and rooms; and in procuring the courts to be wasted, and the prison to be lime-whited, as criminals will gladly work, when in prison, for one-fourth of what they could earn, were they not in confinement.

Many

Sect. IV.

FRANCE.

Many worked at their own trades, as shoe-makers, basket-makers &c. but none were Toulon

the intendant.* These were chained two and two, and when one wheeled the mould, the other carried the chain; but in digging, sawing, and other Stationary employments, both worked. Many were at work in the Arfenal\ and employed, some in moving, Arsenal. hewing and sawing timber; and others in the cotton and thread manufactory. The number of those engaged in the last of these employments was about two hundred.

They were lodged in an adjoining hall; anti I observed, that when they left off work they were searched to prevent their secreting any of the materials. All were loaded with

found to be a distinction which might be purchased. The Haves who worked out of the

are punished, when retaken, in various ways.—Some by a confinement under heavier

irons—Some by a recommencement of the term of their confinement—Some by

his religion, was released about eight years ago. There is but one Have here who now prolefies himself a protestant, and his name is Francois Conde. He has been confined in

man (who loft his gold-headed cane) in a private house in Paris. The boys were apprehended, and this Conde, though only fourteen years of age, and lame of one arm, was condemned to the galleys for life. After four or five years he procured avbible, and learned by himself to read; and becoming, through close attention to the scrip-tures, convinced that his religion was antichristian, he publicly renounced it; and declared and defended his sentiments. Ever fmce he has continued a steady protestant, humble and modest, with a character irreproachable and exemplary, respected and esteemed by his officers and fellow prisoners. I brought away with me some musical pipes of his turning and tuning. He was in the galley appropriated to the infirm and aged; and these, besides the ulual allowance of bread, have an additional allowance from

t I was informed by a very respectable person at Marfcilles, that the brother of an ancient lady in his family was, several years ago, apprehended by some dragoons, as he was coming from a conventicle or

allowed to keep shops on shore as formerly at Marseilles; nor have they the fame (->ALLEYS-convenience they had then for the sale of their work. Forty were at work in La Place La Place. (the square) in the city, digging and removing the foil for the foundation of a house for

Galleys.

T

the galleys forty two years, for being concerned with some boys in a quarrel, with a gentle-

whipping—And such as had been condemned for life, by hanging.

Protestants are not compelled to attend at mass. The last person who was confined for

chains of some kind or other. Those employed in the manufactory (and some others in the arsenal) had only a ring on one leg; but this, and likewise the choice of irons, I

arsenal were loaded with heavy chains; and few are able to escape: if any do escape, they

the king of nine fous (4,{d.) a day. j-

* This house will spoil the beauty of the square.

protestant meeting; that his son fantt him taken, and immediately went to the governor and offered himself instead of his father; and that he was accepted, and sent to the galleys for life; but at the end of ten years ODtained his liberty by a lady’s intercellion; the father having just hated to fee his son released.

Some

56

FOREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

Toulon

Arsenal

Hospital

Marine

Hospital.

Portman Castle Prison.

Nice.

Savona

Hospital

Some of the Tick in the Hojpilal were in irons; but there were marks of attention and humanity towards them, for they lay in separate beds, and the wards were quiet and not dirty. — Englishmen are Jlribily prohibited from viewing the arsenal: I got, however, admission, and passed some hours there on two several days.

In going over the wards of the marine Ilojpital I observed nothing remarkable. Its frtuation in a populous part of the city is very improper. The want of a free circulation of air mull: produce contagious disorders among the patients; and this will expose the surrounding inhabitants to great danger.

1 lay a few nights in the old castle of Portman, in the ide of Port Crofce, and found there an ancient prison. The descent is by a ladder, through a stone aperture of four feet diameter; which, after the ladder is removed and the hole covered, is a secure, but dreadful, place of confinement. As this is a prison fitnilar to many in castles, in the barbarous ages, when security only was regarded, a drawing of it may not be unacceptable to some of my readers. See plates xv. xvi.

ITALY.

The Prison at Nice has three stories, with four or five good rooms on each floor, which open into a gallery eight feet wide. The keeper has a neat room or two for the better fort of debtors. Irons are never uled except when prisoners are riotous or unruly; and when this happens they are chained to the wall. Their beds have mattresses and blankets. Their allowance is two pounds of bread a day, beside supplies from charitable contributions; of which some came whilst I was in the prison.

There were about two hundred and fifty galley-slaves (so called) in dirty rooms near the water, who were at work in the pontons for clearing the harbour. Their bread was good, of which they had a daily allowance of two pounds, besides four ounces of dried beans, without salt. They have also seven Jons allowed them in money, on the days they work , but two Jous and a half of this film are deducted for supplying them with soup. Sundays and Thursdays are idle days with them, and then they are allowed only the two pounds of bread.* It may not be improper to add, that as the term of their confinement draws towards a conclusion, their slavery is relaxed, and some liberties are granted them.

At the Hospital of Savona, as the old surgeon went over the wards with me, he observed how improper it was not to separate chirurgical from other patients; or to suffer, as often happens, a person with a frafrured bone, to lie with a person in a fever (though

* I generally weigh several loaves of the bread with my own steel-yard, before I note it down. This hint I give to prevent mistakes, because I found, that at Nice, what they called the pound is but eleven ounces Pn^lish, and at the galleys at Toulon, two pounds are but one pound and three quarters.

in

Sect. IV.

ITALY.

57

in separate beds) on each fide of him. He also condemned the unwholeioine and ditty custom which prevails in hospitals, ofj'pitting on the walls and floors. * I was pleased to to find an alcove rece/s, concealed by linen curtains, between each of the beds in the women’s ward.

In visiting the hospitals at Genoa in February 1786, I observed that L’Albergo delPovero, having high rocks on each fide of it, is badly situated.

The Great Hospital has convenient recesses, concealed by white curtains. A very large convent, in which only ten friars reside, covers a great part of this hospital; and, I apprehend, annually occasions the death of a number of patients double to that of friars in the convent.—The benefactors to this hospital are distinguished by the different pofturcs and attitudes in which their statues arc placed, in the wards, and on the ftaircafc, according to the different sums which they have contributed. Many are placed Handing; but an hundred thousand crowns entitles to a chair. I obfeived a statue which had one of the feet under the chair; and was told that the reason was, that the benefactor honoured by it had contributed only ninety thousand crowns. The statues in the wards are now injurious by harbouring duff, f From a regard to the health of patients, I wish to fee plain white walls in hospitals, and no article of ornamental furniture introduced.

At Leghorn, I observed in February 1786, in the Prison for the Slaves and their infirmary, and in the City Hospital, the fame order and humane attention, that I had observed in my former visit. To the hospital a new spacious ward has been added.

In the Hospital at Pisa, the attention paid to the sick, especially in the clean and elegant ward for women, was very pleasing; and muff conduce much to the health of the patients, and to promote (particularly in young persons) humane dispositions, and a love of cleanliness. This ward is on a ground floor, and has iron-grated doors for the free admission of light and air. It lies just beyond an elegant botanic garden, which, through the iron grates, affords a pleasant view.

At Florence, in 1786, in the Prisons and Hospitals which I had seen about seven years before, I found the moil pleasing alteration had taken place, in consequence of the great care and attention of the Grand Duke. The prisons were white-washed; debtors were separated from felons; and the number of prisoners was diminished.

A well regulated house of correction has been lately built here; the rules of which the Grand Duke ordered to be copied for me; and his excellent new code of criminal laws, which were sent me, evinces his great attention to the happinels of his people.

The wards round the garden of the Hospital of San Maria Nova being very properly contrived for promoting the health and spirits of the patients, especially convalescents;

Salonica.

Genoa.

Great

Hospital.

Leg horn.

Pisa.

Florence.

House of Cor r.ec-

TION,

Hospital.

* Patients with coughs should be supplied with such little boxes or basins as are used in Holland, and in Tome churches, as at Malta &c. I would have fnufr and tobacco, strictly prohibited in all hospitals and poor-houses, the use of them being idle, dirty, and expensive,

t 1 was well informed, that feme have hurt their families through the ambition of having their statues placed in this hospital.

\

1

1

I fli all

!i

FOREIGN PRISONS

Sect. IV.

Florence. I shall give a plan of the garden, and of the women’s ward. This will shew the usual form ofhospitals in many Roman-Catholic countries. See plate xvn.

Roue. In the new Prison at Rome, February 1786, the infirmary was clean, and the sick were, as at the time of my former visits, in clean wards, and in separate beds.

In the noble Hospital of San Michaele I passed two mornings, and found it sadly neglected by the cardinal and the inspectors, who never visit it.

The present pope’s favourite institution is a seminary or school for young women; where neatness, ceconomy and industry must give pleasure to every visitant.

Anatomical lectures are read publicly twice a week in the hospital of A Gio Laterano; one of which I attended.

The condition of the Prisons and Hospitals at Naples in 1786, was the fame that I had seen it in 1778.

MALTA.

Naples.

'I,

s, '1

Malta

Prison.

Slaves.

Hospital

FOR

M E N.

The Prison at Malta confifbs of several dirty and offensive rooms in the town-house, where in April 1786, there were nine prisoners. One of them, a Turk, had differed the torture; in consequence of which a mortification had taken place, and the surgeon was applying the bark internally, and externally: the second time I saw him he was worse; but I did not continue long enough in the island to know the event.

The Slaves have many rooms, and each fedt their chapels or mosques, and sick rooms apart. A woollen manufactory is carried on by feme of them; but the majority are blacks, and unhappy objects. For the religion (the knights so called) being sworn to make perpetual war with the Turks, cany off by piracy many of the peasants, fishermen, or sailors from the Barbary coasts. How dreadful 1 that those who glory in bearing on their breads the sign of the Prince of peace, should harbour such malignant dispositions against their fellow creatures, and by their own example encourage piracy in the dates of Barbary. Do not these knights by such conduct make themselves the worst enemies to the cross of Christ, under the pretence of friendship

In this city there are two large hospitals, one for each sex, supported by the knights.

The Hospital (de S. Jean de Jerusalem *) for men, is situated near the water. The three principal wards are in the form of a T, which communicate one with another, having an altar in the centre. By additional buildings the ward on one fide is made longer than that on the other. Their breadth is thirty-four feet and a half but the cross ward is only twenty-nine feet and four inches wide. These three wards connected are called the hall.

* The institution of the knights (of Malta) was in the tenth century, at Jerusalem, for the care of the wounded in the Christian wars; they afterwards settled in the isle of Rhodes, but being driven from thence in 1530, this istand of Malta was given them by Clark: the fifth, king of Spain and emperor of Germany.

The

I I

Sect. IV.

MALT A.

59

The pavement is of neat marble (or stone) squares. The deling is lofty; but, being wood, now turned black; the windows being small, and the walls hung round with dusty pictures, this noble hall makes but a gloomy appearance. All the patients lie single. One ward is for patients dangerously sick or dying; another for patients of the middle rank of life; and the third for the lower and poorer fort of patients. In this last ward (which is the largest) there were four rows of beds; in the others, only two. They were all so dirty and offensive as to create the necessity of perfuming them; and yet I observed that the physician, in going his rounds, was obliged to keep his handkerchief to his face. — The ule of perfume I always reckon a proof of inattention to cleanliness, and airiness; and this inattention struck me here forcibly on opening some of the private closets, with which this hall is very properly furnished. — There are several other wards, and some single rooms for such of the knights as choose to come here when lick. There is likewise a large apartment in which the governor (always one of the knights) resides during the time of his being governor, which is two years. He has a salary; and is generally, as a sensible gentleman here told me, a young and unexperienced person; others, either not liking the confinement, or being fearful of catching some distemper.

The great hall already mentioned is on the ground floor; and under it is another hall, or rather a large ward, which is nothing but a dark and damp arched cellar. Here were cutaneous patients ■, also fifty-two old infirm servants from the city, who are maintained by the religion. The first and the under-physician, with the surgeon, a few pupils, and one or two attendants, take the round or walk of the upper wards; but in this ward the first physician does not attend. In the great hall there is a date fixed on the closet door at the fide of the beds of the patients, on which the initial letters of their usual medicines, diet &c. are written. On this slate also one of the pupils always marks the doctor’s order, so that, at his next visit, he may fee his last prescription. When these gentlemen go their rounds, all the patients are required to be in their beds.

The patients are twice a day, at eight and four, served with provisions; one of the knights, and the under-pliyfician constantly attending in the two halls, and seeing the distribution. From the kitchen (which is darker and more offensive than even the lower hall, to which it adjoins) the broth, rice, soup and vermicelli are brought in dirty kettles first to the upper hall, and there poured into three silver bowls, out of which the patients are served. They who are in the ward for the very sick, and those of the middle rank of life, are served in plates, dishes and spoons of silver ■, but the other patients (who are tar the most numerous) are served in pewter. I objected to the sweet cakes, and two forts of clammy sweet-meats, which were given to the patients.

The number of patients in this hospital during the time I was at Malta (March 0.9th to April 19, 1786) was from five hundred and ten, to five hundred and thirty-two. T. hefe were served by the most dirty, ragged, unfeeling and inhuman persons I ever saw.

I once found eight or nine of them highly entertained with a delirious dying patient. The governor told me they had only twenty-two servants, and that many of them were

I o debtors

Malta

Hospital.

6o

FOREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

I

Malta debtors or criminals, who had fled thither for refuge.* At the same time I observed.

Hospital. that near jcrty attendants were kept to take care of about twenty-six horjes and the fame number of mules, in the Grand Matter’s stables,- and that there all was clean. I cannot help adding, that in the centre of each of these stables, there was a fountain out of which water was constantly running into a stone basin; but that in the hospital, though there was indeed a place for a fountain, there was no water.

There is great want of room in this hospital. I requested that a delirious patient who disturbed the other patients, might be lodged in a room by himself; but was told, no stich room could be found. Opposite to this hospital there is a large house, which is now tifed only for a wash-house. A great improvement might be made by-providing a wash-house for the hospital some where out of the city (its only proper lituation) and appropriating these spacious and airy apartments to poor knights and con-valefcent patients. The flow hospital fever (the inevitable consequence of closeness, uncleanliness and dirt) prevails here.

At the back of the hall, over the knights’ arms (a cross) is a marble crown, and under it on white marble is this inscription,

INF ANTI UM 1 N COLUM IT ATI.

Found-

ling

Hospital.

Hospital

for

Women.

Here is a wooden cradle, which turning on an axis, the pins strike a bell, to give notice of the reception of infants into the Foundling Hospital. These infants, after being received, are sent to the governess of that hospital, who provides nurses for them in the country; and on the first Sunday in every month, these nurses bring back the children to ihew them, and at the same time to receive their pay; the governess, very properly, being present. On one of these occasions, I had the pleasure of seeing a number of fine healthy children.

In the Hospital for Women there were two hundred and thirty patients, who had all separate beds. The governess attended me through every ward, and was constantly using her smelling botde; in which flie judged very properly, for a more offensive and dirty hospital for women I never visited. f

* “ Even a murderer,” added the commilfary, “ cannot be taken if found in this hall.” Every church in Malta, where the sacrament is administered, is a sanctuary for debtors and felons; in that of the Dominicans, and also of the Augustins there were one or two persons.

f Sir William Hamilton favoured me with a letter to the Grand Mailer, which I presented after my first visit to this great hospital. He very readily and kindly said, that the prisons and hospitals should be all open to me. On a subsequent visit, he alked me what I thought of his hospitals ? I faithfully told his Highness my sentiments, and made some of the remarks that I now publish; adding, if he himself would fomelimes walk over the hospitals, many abuses would be corrected. But my animadversions were reckoned too free; yet, being encouraged by the satisfaction which the patients seemed to receive from my frequent visits, 1 continued them; and 1 have reason to believe they produced an alteration for the better in the flite of these hospitals, with respect to cleanliness and attention to the patients.

In

Sect. IV.

T

U R K E Y.

<51

In the Foundling Hospital there were thirty-nine girls from seven to about twelve Malta

years of age, who were clean both in their persons and dress, but- very pale. They Found"

have no proper place for exercise, and but two bed-rooms, one of which is close and hospital. offensive. A piece of ground, which might contribute to their health by being made a play-ground, is a fort of useless garden.

Near the city are two Houses for the Poor. In that for men, there were one hundred Poor

and forty poor persons, who are lodged in eight or nine rooms in a range, on the Houses.

ground floor; with a church appropriated to them, and apartments for a chaplain adjoining. Their allowance is a brown loaf (weight exactly iilb.) some soup, and a little cheese, and on some days, a penny in money; and many of them have a small garden. There being no common hall, or dining-room, every one carries his provision into his bed-room. On the whole, however, these infirm persons are pretty well supplied and accommodated.

In the house for women there were two hundred and thirteen, to whom a kind attention seems to be paid by the governor, who has convenient apartments adjoining.

Near these poor-houses, there is a particular Convent called Caja della Manrija founded Convent. by a Spanish prince, in which travellers ftriSlly conforming to the rules of the house may lodge and board for forty days, at a small expense. It is a fort of religious retreat, and very pleasant. I here passed some hours two afternoons; and found all still,

quiet, and agreeable. The passages, the rooms, and the church were elegantly neat, and perfectly clean. Over the door of each room there was a picture of some person famous for virtue and piety. The windows looked towards the garden. The refectory is a beautiful hall painted with subjects from scripture history. In the church, under the defies of the feats, were boxes with sand which turned on a pivot, to prevent the floor from being foiled. Three priests constantly reside in this pleasant retreat.

TURKEY.

At Zante, the Prison consists of two rooms on the ground floor, at the back of the Zante.

guard-house. There were in May 1786 five or six prisoners, very dirty, yet scarcely distinguished from the tattered Venetian soldiers.f

* Before I leave Malta I would just mention, that the staircase at the Grand Mailer's palace is the moll convenient for infirm persons that I have ever seen; from which hints may be taken for the more easy afeent to the upper wards in our hospitals. It is circular, nine feet and three inches wide, the rises two inches and a half, the Heps at the widell end two feet two inches, and at the narrowed nine inches.

t Here is another room used for a prison, adjoining to the health-office, in which was confined the principal pirate concerned in seizing the lliip called the Grand Duchess, bound from Leghorn to London. Three volleys of Ihot having been aimed at him without killing him, he was despatched by a pillo! applied to his ear. His head and the heads of his two companions were fixed on poles. The two latter became mere Ikulls within two months, but his head and even his countenance continue (as I was allured) much the fame, though three years have elapsed since his execution.

The

6i

FOREIGN PRISONS & c.

Sect. IV.

ZAKT£.

Smyrna Pr ISON FOR Criminals

Prison

FOR

Debtors.

Ho S P I T A L S.

The Hospital is a long room, containing fourteen beds, in which were only fix patients. Over this room is a fort of foundling-hospital.

In those cities which I have leen in Turkey, the debtors have a prison separate and distinct from the felons. — Without such a separation in England, a thorough reformation of the gaols can never be effected.

The Prison for Criminals at Smyrna is situated near the sea, and consists of two rooms and a court. So speedy is the execution of justice here, that I found in this prison no more than seven prisoners at any of the three visits which I made to it in 1786. One of these prisoners having been baftinadoed so severely that he was swelled from head to foot, I advised him to bathe in the sea, and to apply to the foies of his feet plasters made of salt and vinegar. In the use of these means, with the addition of two doses of Glauber’s salts, he recovered; and I acquired a credit which made the keepers, in my subsequent visits, particularly attentive to me.*

The Prison for Debtors consists of four or five rooms, and a court to walk in. In this populous city I found but fourteen prisoners at one time, and at another time, not so many. Their subsistence depends chiefly on charity, and the collections made for them in the Greek and Roman-Catholic churches.

In this city there are several Hospitals. One was lately built by the English Fadlory, and is designed chiefly for such sailors, as may happen to be ill on their arrival, or to be taken ill during their stay in the harbour. It consists of three rooms on one floor, the largest of which was unfurnished; another had three patients in it; and the third, none. There were besides, two small unfurnished rooms in the back court, intended for persons infefted with the plague, f

In a situation almost opposite to this, the gentlemen belonging to the Dutch Fadlory have also nearly finished an Hospital. The rooms in it are all on the ground floor; and

* One morning I attended the Cadi and other officers of the police when they visited the ihops and examined the weights used in them, and the quality of the bread sold by the bakers. All false and light weights they cut and carried away. Such of the Ihop-keepers as were judged to be delinquents were either sent to prison, or immediately bajlinadocdthat is, laid on their backs to receive on the foies of their feet, a number of strokes, at the discretion of the Cadi. 1 heard of a person who had received four or five hundred of these strokes; but I can hardly suppose it possible to survive a much less number. — Such ha fry executions of, what is ben called jtjiice, are very improper and cruel. The terror which appeared in the countenances of all the ihop-keepers at these times implied, that the innocent as well as the guilty might suffer; and, indeed, it is scarcely possible this should not sometimes happen, the Cadi, who orders and superintends these punishments, continuing in his office only a year, and being generally young and unexperienced.

f As but very few died of the plague in Smyrna in 1786, the houses of the Franks were then all open. These live in apart of the town quite separate from the Turks. In like manner at Conilantinople, all the European ambafiadors and merchants live by themselves in the suburb of Pera; where, while the plague rages, they Ihut their houses. All provisions then brought to them are taken at the doors and dipped in water; and all letters arc received with a pair of tongs, and fumigated before they are opened.

contiguous

9 MY RNA.

■:J/n 0 ar/j /far > j/or //tr /V/ryuc.

, yZ(//? of //to C ^////oiOAt/,1.

Str/c Ward

Sick Ward

J‘ i a z z a

C o h r t

"i

v

w

A I^ineipal entrance . D. fa/iaae to Mr dttryma arounef. G FerimA- room

13 J|ftifade. E Fn'ors apartmentr. H Kw/C

C Ktlchen F. Chape/. I . Fountain

Sect. IV.

TURKEY.

63

contiguous to it there is a neat and spacious garden, with a burying-ground in the middle of it.

The Venetian or Italian Hospital consists of several neat and clean rooms. The good prior, having himself formerly been ill of the plague, made a vow, in consequence of which he has ever since assiduously attended others in the fame circumstances. Thinking him, therefore, though not a physician, a very experienced man, I proposed to him the questions I had prepared about this distemper; and he was so good as to favour me with answers to them.

The French likewise, and the Jews and •Greeks have Hospitals here. In one of the Greek hospitals there is a larger and more airy ward or hall than any I saw in Smyrna; and contiguous to it there are several rooms for patients ill of the plague, which are seldom empty. But a new hospital for such patients, near the English burying-ground,* is just finished. The plan will shew the form of it. Ste. plate xvm. j-

I found nothing remarkable in the prisons at Constantinople, but that they were very still and quiet. I was at a loss to account for this, till I refledled, that the only beverage for the prisoners is water.

In the Prison at Galata, J in 1786, there were eighteen debtors. Their subsistence depends partly on colledlions made for them ' in churches; but, for this purpose, there is also a bag hung up in the middle of the street which leads to this prison, to receive contributions of bread, meat &c. from charitable persons. || Prisoners of different fedls (as Greeks, Jews, Armenians, Turks &c.) have separate apartments allotted them; and it may be worth mentioning, as a general observation, that I always found fewer prisoners of the Mahometan, than of other religions.—In one of the prisons a superstitious respect is paid to a fine spring of water, because it was found in a place where a church had formerly stood; and the prisoners constantly drink it.

The Prison for the slaves is very large, but it was almost empty, the Captain Bajhaw having taken most of the men into his galleys. The few who remained were healthy, and a very humane attention was paid to them.

* The English Factory’s burying-ground lies open, and is lhamefully neglected; many of the tomb-stones being broken down, and others taken away; while an adjoining burying-ground is carefully preserved and locked up.

f Here, I had an opportunity (which in this tour I did not enjoy at any of the hotels of our Ambassadors) of attending public worship on Sunday, performed by the worthy chaplain to the factory. I take this occasion of mentioning a secret source of contagious irreligion, that most of our ambafadors have no chaplains, nor any religious service in their houses.—With pain I have observed on Sundays many of our young nobility and gentry, who are to fill eminent stations in life, inflru&ed in their houses by example at leaf!: (especially in Roman-Catholic countries) to make the Lord’s day a season of diversion and amusement. —* How have I been mortified by the comparison, when after calling at their hotels, I have seen, upon my return from thence, the chapels of the Spanish and French ambassadors crowded

f Galata and Pera are two of the suburbs of Constantinople.

|| Into this prison a fine stream of water has been lately brought by a Greek, as a testimony of his devotion, on the loss of his only son.

I could

S M YRNA. Hospitals.

Constan-

tinople.

64

FOREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

Constanti noi*le.

Hostitals.

Asylum

FOR

Cats.

Salonica Hospitals.

I could r.ot gain admittance into the Prison of the j'even ‘Towers. Four of these towers have been destroyed by time, and the late fire. The remaining three are very lofty, and (land in the corners of a large area. Through an aperture, I had a view of one of the dungeons; and it seemed to be about five feet below the surface of the ground. It happened to be the dungeon to which the Ruffian ambassador had been lately conveyed; but soon after a better apartment was assigned him.

The only Hospitals of the Franks in this city are those of the French nation. They have one at Galata, and the use there of a garden (belonging to an adjoining convent) which is very convenient for convalescent patients.

Their hospital for infeBed patients is at Pera, and consists of several rooms, in which I found no patients. The prior constantly resides here, and has three or four neat rooms, which I found so strongly perfumed as to render them, to me, alnnoft as offensive as a foul lazaretto. Here are also several detached rooms, intended for the performance of quarantine, by persons who have been accidentally, or designedly, in infefted families or ships.

The Greeks have an Hospital at Galata, where I found the tick lying on the floors, and the prior himself ill of the jaundice, and a dreadful cutaneous disorder. All were neglected; for, as the prior told me, none of the faculty would attend them. I requested a young physician, who accompanied me to this hospital, to set the charitable example.

The Punks have few Hospitals at Constantinople. Those for the sick are a fort of caravanfaries, in one of which, 1 saw many Jick and dying objects lying on dirty mats on the floors. The surgeon seemed to be either extremely stupid, or intoxicated with opium.

The two Hospitals for Lunatics are admirable struftures, built entirely of stone, and proof against fire. The rooms are all on the ground floor, arched, and very lofty, having opposite windows, and opening under a corridor into a spacious area. The keeper has a room or two in the middle of the area, from whence he has a full view of the entrance, and of all that pafles. In the courts there is plenty of water; but yet very little regard appears to be paid to cleanliness: nor is there, in any other respect, much attention {hewn to the patients. In the midst, however, of this neglect of human beings, I saw an instance of attention to cats, which aftoniflted me; I mean an afyhim, which has been provided for them, and which is situated near the mosque of San Sophia.

At Salonica, the Greeks have, in a burying-ground out of the city, an Hospital for infeBed patients, which is enclosed by high walls, and has an iron door at the entrance. There were four rooms on the ground floor, and, over these, a platform for lodging recovering patients. Though quite empty, it gave me the fame head-ach that I have felt in foul lazarettos.

To this may be contrafted the Hospital of the Jews, situated on a rising ground in the middle of their burying-place, some of the tombs serving for tables and feats. It is a fort of spacious shed, divided in the middle by a wall, and the fides supported by pillars. It was lightsome and airy, and better accommodated for its purpose than any I had seen.

Being

Sect. IV.

VENICE.

65

Being quite open, and without surrounding walls, it would have greatly pleased my much esteemed friend Dr. Jebb.*

The only Hospital I have seen for Lepers is in the island of Scio, near the city bearing that name. It contained about one hundred and twenty lepers, confiding of men and women, lodged in separate apartments, in a long range of rooms, elevated above the ground. The situation is airy and pleasant; and most of the lepers are accommodated with little gardens, which supply them with almonds, pot-herbs, and delicious figs and grapes. Water having lately been conducted hither from the mountains in two dreams, one supplying those in health, and the other the lepers, I requested the vice-cartful to propose to the directors to make a farther improvement, by adding two convenient baths, one for each sex.

VENICE.

In the Great Prison at Venice, the sick are separated from the other prisoners; but the rooms assigned them are (very improperly) on the ground floor, and in a close part of the prison.

The Galleys which I saw, were clean and not offensive, in consequence of polfefling one of the bell means of cleanliness, by an easy access to water.

GERMANY.

In the Prison at Trieste, Nov. 30, 1786, there were thirteen strong rooms arched with brick, with one or two beds in each. The infirmary contained fix neat beds. None of the prisoners were in irons, but, being constantly confined, their rooms were offensive. Allowance about i[-d. of our money. The keeper observed that the prisoners, in confiant confinement, are more healthy on the white-bread allowance than on brown: and this may be true if the latter be coarse rye-bread.

The Galley-Slaves (lo called) were lodged in a house- of correlation which was lately a convent; the men below, and the women above Hairs. The men were in chains, and employed in cleaning the streets, bridges &c. The women were carding, spinning &c.

* “ It is the secret, but indelible persuasion, that lofty walls, and iron doors, and grated windows enclose “ disease, as well as misery of other kinds, which prevents the exertions of the compassionate from being “ employed in lcffening the calamities of confinement.” -Dr. Jebb' 1 Thoughts an the CanJhuSlion and Polity of Prisms. vol. II. p. 558.— The mode of enclosure, which he recommends, is, by a tl dry moat with {helving “ Tides, and a wall riling from the bottom of the moat level with the surface of the foil.” p. 560. This mode of conflructing prisons would not be fecitre; and it is in many places impracticable; nor does it appear to be necessary for the health of the prisoners. See some good remarks on this subject in a letter of Dr. Percival's in the Gentleman's Magazine, for Sept. 1787, p. 766.

K in

Salonica.

Scio

Hospital

for

Lepers.

Venice

prison.

Trieste Prison s.

66

FOREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

Trieste.

V1 E N' N A Pr ISONS.

New Pr ison.

Great Case rn.

in the house. I law them at dinner on wholesome bread and soup. They looked healthy; and, from the placidnefs of their countenances, 1 inferred the humanity of their keeper; and I was a witness of his shewing them an attention which, in such houses, is of particular importance.

The Ilospital is now converted into barracks for soldiers, the sick being removed to one of the dissolved monasteries, which is finely situated, and has a spacious garden. The rooms are lofty. The bedsteads were of iron, and (very properly) had no tellers. The bread was good; but (as is too common in these houses) given the patients on the very day it was baked.

In the Great Prison at Vienna, in December 1786, I found very few of the dungeons empty: some had three prisoners in each dungeon; and three horrid cells I saw crowded with twelve women. All the men live in total darkness, and are not permitted to make any savings from their daily allowance (of four creutzers) for the purpose of procuring light. They are chained to the walls of their cells, though so strong, and so defended by double doors, as to render such a security needless. No priest or clergyman had been near them for eight or nine months; and this is reckoned, even by these criminals, so great a punishment, that they complained to me of it with tears, in the presence of their keepers.

I recollected a dungeon in which, at my former visit, I had seen a prisoner dying; and on mentioning this, one of the turnkeys said, “ Yes, he died about a year ago which another confirmed. This, however, mull have been a different person; for eight years had elapsed since my former visit.

The torture-room lies nine Heps deeper than the dungeons; but I will say nothing of this room, nor of the instruments of torture, because the Emperor has shewn his humanity and wisdom by abolishing this {hocking practice.

All the prisoners in the old prison just mentioned, are to be soon removed into a Prison lately built by the emperor. It consists of fort)' rooms, and also twenty dungeons at the depth of twenty-two steps below the surface of the ground, boarded with thick planks, in which are strong iron rings, for the purpose of chaining the prisoners. These dungeons are larger, and in other respects (though horrid enough) left horrid than those in the old prison. They were empty, but above them were two hundred and fourteen criminals crowded into a few rooms. Their daily allowance is four creutzers. I was pleased to find here a set of rooms for trying the prisoners.

In a prison for the confinement of convicts, called the Great Cafern, there were eighty-six men all in one large room. At the front of this prison, there is a chapel and a guard-room; and at the fide of it, a room for searching the prisoners, to prevent their taking with them improper instruments when they come from work. — Their employment is cleaning the streets — Their allowance on idle days (that is, holidays and Sundays) is one creutzer for bread (weight 15 oz.) one for soup, and one for greens: on other days, four creutzers. At night they lie in the large room just mentioned, but in their clothes, and [ chained to the floor. This room, having no other windows than two holes in the cieling,

is.

Sect. IV. GERMANY.

is, even in the day time, offensive beyond expression. Indeed, it would not be wonderful, if the effluvia from these prisoners, while they work in the streets, should spread through this city an infection destruilive to the health, and fatal to the lives of the inhabitants.

In the Little Cafern (another prison for confining convicts) there were in two rooms forty-two criminals; about a third of whom were at work in one of these rooms, and the rest were idle in the other. Allowance, the fame as in the great cafern. The guard in the great cafern confrfts of a corporal and fix soldiers; in this, of a corporal and four soldiers. These guards will not suffer any thing to be given to the prisoners; and there is likewise in this city, a strict prohibition of giving to vagrants and beggars in the streets.

In the House of Correction, women only are at present confined. Allowance, one pound of bread, and two dishes of different kinds of soup, once a day. Great attention seemed to be paid to the sick. Their rooms were clean, and separated from the other rooms.— Of one hundred and fifty-three prisoners thirty-five were ill; a high proportion, but not higher than might be expected in a prison where no bedding is allowed.

The criminals sent off to Hungary are brought first to this prison. They are clothed in an uniform, and chained in companies, five and five together, with irons round their necks and on their feet; besides a chain about ten inches long between the feet of each of them, and another chain about fix feet long for fattening each of them to the persons next to him. — I was told, that the hard work in which they are employed, of drawing boats up the Danube, with their coarse fare, wears them out so fast that few of them live in this state above four years.

The House of Correction, in which vagrants chiefly, and a few debtors are confined, was lately a monastery. The rooms and passages are airy and spacious, and the house is well supplied with water by a stream that is constandy running. The debtors and vagrants were confined in separate rooms, but of the former there were only seven. The number of the latter was one hundred and forty-nine; and they were employed in carding, spinning, weaving &c. Count Pergen is here giving an useful example of humanity, and readiness to make improvements. It was owing to his great attention, that I always found this house clean, and in good order. There is an office belonging to it, in which accounts of its state are kept, with much regularity. A paper or journal was given me containing these accounts, divided into eighteen columns, in the following order.

1. Prisoners* names. ro. Prisoners7 day of discharge.

2. - offences. 11. Number at the house allowance.

3- - - - age. 12. - - - at their own allowance.

4- - - - place of nativity. 13. Prisoners7 increase.

5- - - - married or not married. 14. - - - decrease.

6. - - - profession or trade. 15. Number of common prisoners.

7- - - - how often confined. 16. - - - debtors.

8. - - - where apprehended. 17. - - - guards.

9- - - - term of confinement. 18. Total in the house*.

K 2

67

Vi EN'NA.

Little Case rk

House

of

Correc-

tion.

House

FOR

Vac rants.

The

68

FOREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

,1

Vienna The hospital in the suburbs, called the General Hospital, is very large, and contains General several courts. Molt of the wards are seventeen feet high, sixty-one feet long, and twenty-seven broad; with opposite windows; and twenty beds in every ward, with vacancies between them three feet wide, in which tables were placed. Some of the wards were much larger.—They were all furnished with basins, towels &c. and great attention seemed to be paid to cleanliness. To each ward three nurses are assigned, and a room of a moderate size, with a fire place for washing and other purposes. The roof has windows in it, but unhappily they are glazed; and consequently the free el'cape of the foul air is prevented, and much evil mult be produced.

At the back of this hospital, there are twelve neat rooms, with every thing in them proper for lying-in women — a bed — drawers with white child-bed linen — a toilet — tea things —and a bed for the nurse. These rooms are for those that pay one florin a day. There are other rooms with five or six beds in each, for such as pay half a florin a day. The former advance at entrance the pay of eight days; and the latter the pay of four days. There are rooms also for those who pay ten creutzers a day. All in this department was clean, calm and quiet. Women are admitted at any hour, through a private door and passage, and no questions are alked at their coming in, or going out.

Tower The nezv Tozver for Lunatics, near this hospital, has five stories, and twenty-eight rooms

FOR on each floor. The doors open into a paffaee fix feet wide, which goes round the Lunatics. r r

building. Though great attention was paid to cleanliness, the passages were very offensive; the form of the building causing the air to stagnate in its centre, as in a deep well.

In the chancery (or accountant’s room) the numbers given me, Dec. 13, 1786, were as follows:

In the General Hospital, 389 Men. 424 Women.

Lying-in Hospital, — — in - — 23 Children.

Lunatic Hospital, 183 -- 78 ——

Total 120S

Daily expense for provisions, 141 florins, 56 creutzers and 2 cratz.

Military In the Military Hospital, Dec. 14, 1786, there were five hundred and fifty-one patients.

Hospital. ■p]le waKjs are similar to those in the general hospital, and the passages (very properly) eight feet wide. Neither these, nor the patients were lb clean as in the former hospital, the attendants being soldiers sent hither by their officers, as a punishment for drunkenness or small offences; and from whose pay (which is five creutzers) three are deducted for their provision. A surgeon of a battalion attending in each room, keeps the wards quiet. There are thirty of these surgeons, of whom fourteen reside, and attend alternately with the others for a fortnight. There is also a superintending surgeon, to whom the other surgeons make reports every day.

1

\r

* I have all the plans of the above hospitals; and should any gentlemen wilh to inspect them, they are much at their service.

In

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

69

In the Convent of Les Freres de Charite, the long ward is twenty-five feet and a half Vienna wide, and contains one hundred and fourteen beds with green furniture, and (very Convents. properly) without tellers. All was still and quiet: but in such monastic institutions the wards are always kept too close. This convent has a house belonging to it, properly furnished with beds, cisterns, towels &c. for convalescent patients. It Hands out of the city; and the wards front a pleasant garden. The feet of the patients are washed at coming in; and being here well attended and nourished, they generally go out fitted to follow their usual occupations.

In the Convent of St. Elizabeth, there are fifty beds for sick women in one ward, twenty-three feet wide, on the ground floor, with folding doors in the middle to ieparate the (lightly sick from the other patients. About sixteen good fefters carefully attend this convent; but (as ulual in convents) it wants a proper circulation of fresh air. The emperor encourages it; and the fame is true of the society of the order de S. Johanne de Deo, which, as I learn from the printed lifts, has many convents in his dominions and other parts of Europe.

In this city there are many other noble institutions; which, being the objects of the emperor’s particular attention, and having been either founded or improved by him, manifest a public spirit which does him great honour; and gives a striking example to other potentates. Some of these I will just mention.

There is an Hospital for Invalids, which was formerly the house for the poor.

In the present House for the Poor, the aged, the infirm, and incurable are lodged and provided for in separate rooms; and great attention appeared to be paid in it to order and cleanliness.

The Foundling Hospital was lately a convent. It has partitions * between the rooms, but no doors. The windows and apertures near the ceilings and floors are so contrived as to keep the rooms fresh, and free from offensive scents. — There were here above eighty infants, to every two of whom, while they are in the house, a nurse is assigned; but they are not continued long here, much the greater part being kept constandy under the care of nurses in the country, whole pay for children under one year old is two florins and thirty creutzers: for children from one to ten, two florins: but from ten to fifteen, only one florin per month, -f- — The whole number of children supported by this hospital was in December 1786, one thousand one hundred and eighty-nine. No child is admitted without some pay. Twenty-four florins will procure admission for any child under the age of a year. If the parents are poor, and produce a certificate from the minister of the parish, only twelve florins are required; which sum must be paid by the parish, if there are no parents, and the child has been taken up in the street.

* Such reparations by partition are proper in all large houses of correction or industry. They render those houses more quiet. They make a proper reparation more easy, according to the different kinds of work in which persons arc employed. And they enable overreers to make their visits more unexpe&edly.

t A florin is sixty creutzers> or about 2 j. id. of our money.

In

7°

FOREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

Vl ENNA

Orphan

Hospital,

In the Orphan Hojpilal, there are three large rooms for each sex. The dormitories are twenty-nine feet wide, and the passages into which they open eight feet and a half These passages I observed to be furnished with proper walhing-places for the children. The beds are placed fix feet from the wall, that the governor (as he told me) may lee that all is clean. The mattrelfes, being of straw, are changed every three months; and the children have clean linen given them once a week in winter, and twice in summer. The great attention in this hospital to cleanliness and air makes the proportion of sick in it very small.

Here is a new inflitution of the emperor’s for the support and instruction of the deaf and dumb, under the care of a clergyman. The boys were clothed in dark grey, and the girls in green. Some were winding filk—spinning—weaving &c. And others were employed in a printing-office. One day in a week is appointed for a public inspection of them. The clergyman proposes by signs questions to them, and they write their answers on a large Hate provided for that purpose.

* The following Table may not be unacceptable to some of my Philosophical Friends.

Extrait du Journal des Observations Meteorologiques faites a L’Observatoire de Vie nne, pour determiner le maximum & minimum du Froid & de la Chaleur de 1780 a 1786 includf.

Le Plus haut Degre de la Chaleur a 3 1. d’apres Midi. Le PI. h. Degre du Froid a 8 h du Matin.

Thermometre. Thermometre.

DE 1780. Reaumur. D E Fahrenh. o DE 1780. Reaumur. D E Fahrenh.

Le 23 Juillet, 4- 23 Degr. 85 Degr. Le 19 Fevr. — ioDegr. 11 Degr.

1781. Le 4 Tuillet, & _ , + 25 D. jg Aout, 284 D. I78l. Le 7 Fevrier, — 8 D. S D.

I782. Le 17 Juillet, -{- 28 D. 95 D. 1782. Lei6&i7Fev.— 13 D. 5 D.

i783- Le 4 Aout, -f 264- D. 9°i D- 1783. Le 4 Janvier, — 6 D. 20J D.

1784. Le 1,5,7 Aout, 26 D. go- D. 1784. Le s Janvier, — 14E; D. 0 D.

1785. Le 4 Aout, -f 25 D. 884 D. 1785. Le 1 Mars. — 144 D. d 7 h. du Mat. — 164 D. 0 D. - 4 D.

1786. Le 1 & 29 Juillet, + 23 D. 85 D. 1786. Le 6 Fevrier, — 12 D. 6 D.

Signifie le Degres de Reaumur au dessus de 0. — Les memes Degres au dessous de o.

Here

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

7*

Here is also a house where persons who are out of employment may find work.* 1 saw, in a large room, many cheerfully carding and spinning. But the number of persons thus provided for (six hundred and fifty-five) being greater than could be conveniently employed in the house, most of them were allowed to carry the materials for their work to their own houles.

I took the liberty of mentioning several of these remarks on the prisons and hospitals at Vienna, to the emperor, when he did me the honour of giving me a private audience; and he has relieved the miseries of many unhappy sufferers.

There is in this city a fixed price for meat, as well as an assize for bread and flour.— The butchery is, with the utmost propriety, carried on in the suburbs, and the meat is prepared for sale there, before it is brought to the public markets. The fame order is observed in all the other cities of the empire; and this may be one reason why I never saw, in any city on the continent, an over-driven ox.

At Francfort, the House of Correction and the House for the Poor join, and are under one direction. The porous stone on which the men are employed in these houfts, is brought from the banks of the Rhine. They beat it with wooden pestles in a large stone trough bound with iron; and the powder, mixed with lime, makes a cement impenetrable by moisture, and as hard as stone. This is sent to Holland, and many other parts of Europe. The women do the laborious work in the apartments for the poor. In January 1787, there were here fifty men, thirty-five women, sixty-four boys, sixty-one girls, twelve prisoners, seventeen vagrants; in all two hundred and thirty-nine. The house, though old, was clean. Half of Saturday in every week is appropriated to the business of cleaning the apartments. It has a chapel, and a room in which the governors meet twice a week. It is inspected also by the ladies; and the regulations of it are published. The allowance of provisions is good bread and beer, soup twice a week, and meat on Sundays and Wednesdays. f

The Asylum for Lunatics, built in 1783, is worthy ofobservation. The master’s apartment, the kitchen, and offices are on the ground floor. On this and the second floor there are several rooms (fourteen feet by twelve and a half, and about twelve high) with one, two, or three beds. The passages are only five feet and a half wide, but the landing place in the centre of the house, being twenty-seven feet wide, with four windows, gives light and air to the whole. £ An aperture always open in each window, added to the quietness

Vienna.

Franc-

fort

House

OF

Correc-

tion.

As Y L U M FOR Lu N ATI C.».

* This is a necessary institution in a city where beggars and vagrants are jlriftly prohibited.

t In this, and in all poor-houses, and houses of correction, there should be a convenient bath for each sex, and every room should be lime-whited once a year, and the tables, chairs, and other wooden untenfils con-Itantly walked. Some may think this an excels of cleanliness; but I would, with Dr. Lind (physician to the royal hospital at Hajlar) infill on ff an exatt neatness and constant cleanliness.”

t In this house, as in many public inlUtutions, too little attention has been paid to the sewers. — The vaults, even here, were very offensive.

1

and

72

F OREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

FllANC-

FORT.

Nassau ( '.1STI.E.

Aix-la-

Chapelle.

Bo I S LE Due.

Amster

D A M

Stadt-

House.

and cleanliness of this houlif, would be a great advantage to it, and probably hasten the recovery of the patients. Here is a large and neat Lutheran chapel, in which the governors, the public, and the injane have separate feats assigned to them; and the last are so placed as to be concealed from the audience during divine service, and in coming in and going out.

At a little distance from Nassau, on the other fide of the river, there is a ruinous castle which was formerly the residence of the princes of Nassau, who are now branched into several families. There are (till remaining two or three dungeons of the prison in the tower, which mud have been dark and dreadful places, having only one final! aperture for air, and the delcent to them by ropes or ladders. I omit the dimensions, as I have given the plan of a similar one at Port-Crofce (fee plate xvi.) and shall take occasion to mention one or two in England.

I have observed in my State of the Prisons, p. 137, that the mode of execution at Aix-la-Chapelle for citizens, is by decollation with a broad sword. It may not be improper to add, that it is concealed from the view of the public by a scaffolding round the spot where it is performed.

HOLLAND.

At Bois le Due, the prisoners convicted of small offences are sent to the spin-house at Breda, described in the State of Prisons, p. 51.

In the Stadt-House at Amsterdam, December 1785, there were seventeen debtors; and January 24, 1787, there were nineteen. — No inhabitant of Amsterdam can be arrested for debt without being three times summoned, with the interval of a fortnight between each citation: nor can any arrest of person, or any execution, take place, till six weeks after the last summons. There is, however, an exception to this rule in cases of accepted bills of exchange, and when the debt is owing to a sentence of a court of justice for damages, and also when the debt is a rent payable on the firftof May and November. In the two first of these cases, only one summons is necessary; and in the last, the three may take place in one day, and execution immediately follow. Strangers may at any time be arrested, upon the plaintiff's swearing to the debt before the hooft ofjicier (or sheriff) who gives an order pericuio felentis, to arrest the person of the debtor if he can be found in the street; for his own apartment in a private house is sacred, and cannot be forcibly entered, except by a deputation of the magistracy, called here the vollen gerecht, which consists of the hooft officier, two scheepens, their secretary, a messenger and constables. In a public house less ceremony is used; though if a landlord were to refuse admittance, it is doubtful whether even here the officers could force an entry.— A man (landing on his steps on the outside of his door, may deride the officers who are patrolling before it, but who dare not touch him, while he (lands upon his own premises.—

In

Sect. IV.

H O L L A N D.

7o

In Holland, burghers of established character, to whom the name of peace-makers is given, are chosen to determine any claims where the sum does not exceed two hundred guilders (about £18).—At several doors in Harlem I observed a small board put up with lace Harlem. upon it, to shew that the mistress of the house was lying-in; and I was informed, that a disturbance near a house, thus guarded, would be severely punished, and that the husband could not at that time be arrested for debt.

In the Rasp-house, I found one day that all the prisoners had finished their talk Amster-

before three o’clock, and on inquiring if they might not by continuing their work °AM

earn somewhat for themselves; one of them very pertinently replied; “ No Sir; for house “ I doubt if we had that permission, whether we should be so healthy as we are. The “ closeness of the court in which we work, situated in the middle of the city, and the “ scantinefs of our provisions, may make relaxation necessary.” The number of prisoners in December 1785, was sixty-five; in January 17S7, fifty-seven.

At the new Work-house, over one of the outer gates, there is a device, with an NewWosi-inscription to this purpose. house.

Fear not: I mean not vengeance, but your reformation.

Severe is my hand, but benevolent my intention.

The two rooms for the regents, and two for the governesses, at the front of the

house, were very elegant and clean. In January 1787, there were three hundred and

fifty persons spinning in one long room. Some here, as in the old work-house,* were employed in boiling ropes and cables, and preparing them for oakum. — The women from the spin-house are removed hither, and I found the fame order and quietness here that I had formerly observed in that house. Forty women were at needle-work, and the mother presiding in the midst of them. —All the dormitories, except those for the criminals, were crowded with beds, each of which has a wooden partition, f In the infirmary the patients and rooms were so very dirty, that I did not wonder that persons are not readily admitted to inspect them. A great degree of inhumanity, and abuse of trull, must be imputed to the resident governor.

In the eight years preceding 1783, only five criminals had been executed in this city. J;

From that time to January 1787, there had been only one criminal executed, and he was broken on the wheel. || The Jolemnity with which executions are performed may be

* The old work-house is now converted into a new marine school> in which were a hundred fine healthy boys.

In the court there is a large model of a man of war.

f Beds of this kind are Hill more improper in hospitals, as they are generally small, and cramp the patients; they also harbour vermin — prevent the free circulation of air — and in many circumstances are inconvenient to the patients and their attendants.

J See State of Prisons, p. 56.

([ In Holland, there is no such thing as what is called in England king’s evidence; nor can any, except the fladtholder, promise impunity to one who discovers his accomplices. Nor is there any punishment to prisoners for an escape; though others, who break open a prison, are punishable with death.

L

one

74

FOREIGN PRISONS &c.

Sect. IV.

Amster- one reason of their being so rare. I cannot help adding, that probably it is also in some DAM' measure owing to the Jolemnity of the administration of oaths, that perjury is not so

frequent here as in some other countries.*—I could wish, from the cleared; principles of reason and found policy, that the use of oaths, in almost all cases were abolished; and that the affirmation of the fast should be sufficient; and that he who aliened or affirmed a ialfity, should be punished and disgraced as a perjurer.

Utrecht In the Spin-house at Utrecht I found no alteration, except that the house was cleaner, SpIN" in consequence of the discharge of a negligent and wicked keeper.

HOUSE*

There had been no execution for the city, or province, for twenty-four years preceding January 17874

* The oath administered in Holland to those of the 'Jewish religion is expressed in the following words. <e You f£ swear by the Almighty and living God, who created heaven and earth, and gave his laws by Moses, that “ you will be upright and true in whatever shall here be aiked of, or proposed to you j and if you declare any 4< thing either entirely, or in part, false and unjust, you acknowledge yourself liable to all the curses, plagues “ and punishments, temporal and eternal, which the God of Ifraei inflicted on Sodom and Gomorrah, and on “ Korah, Dathan and Abiram, and which he has denounced against all those who use or invoke his name falsely, c£ and in vain. As you are true or false, so may God Almighty and Omniscient, reward or punish you.”

f The house of Dr. Brown, the worthy minister of the English church at Utrecht, having been lately burnt down during the service on a sunday; I asked him, whether such confusion and rapine took place there, as are usual in such cases in London: and he assured me, that on the contrary, the exafteft order was observed, and that every thing was returned him which was taken out of his house.

The regulations with respect to fires are as follows. On the tower of the city, a watchman is constantly stationed, who is to look out every half hour; and if all be well, he is to play a tune on his trumpet; but if a fire appear, he is to blow an alarm, to ring a bell, and hang out a light pointed to that quarter where the fire is seen. The surrounding watchmen, thus alarmed, are immediately to alarm those nearest to them, and those others, till all the watchmen are alarmed; one of whom in each division is to call up the people (of whom and of the officers of the trained bands he has always a list) belonging to the fire-engine in his division, who are to convey it to the spot where the fire has broken out, and to receive a suitable reward according as their engine is the first, second, or third that arrives. This watchman is also to call up the officers and men of the trained bands of his division, who, together with the trained bands in the other divisions, the company on guard, and the burghers of the next division, are to surround the house on fire, and not to suffer any persons to approach it except those belonging to the engines, known by a token given them. The officers of the trained bands and those belonging to the engines are liable to heavy fines, if they do not make an immediate appearance upon the alarm j unless they can prove that the watchmen, whose duty it was to alarm them, omitted it j in which case, he is obliged to pay the line himself. All the houses in the neighbourhood are obliged to set lights in their windows, and to receive whatever goods shall be carried to them.

E C T I O N

Sect. V.

SCOTLAND.

75

SECTION V.

SCOTCH PRISONS AND HOSPITALS.

On my coming into Scotland in July 1787, the first county gaol I visited was at Ayr. There is no court, so that debtors and felons are never out of their rooms.

There is the fame defect in the Tolbooth at Glasgow. As the transports continue long in confinement, some alteration was making, by arching the rooms, in order to obtain greater security against escapes and disturbances.

Several of the transports were removed to a new ■prij'on adjoining to the poor-house. Each had a separate room (about fix feet and a half by fix). The rooms here not being very strong, the prisoners had chains on their feet and necks. The passage being only two feet eight inches wide, most of the rooms were very offensive, and some very damp.—No endeavours are used to reclaim these unhappy objects; whose long confinement, together with the great leverity of their chains, and their scanty food (being only two pennyworth of bread in a day) mull reduce them to the extremity of misery and desperation.

The House of Correction is under the infirmary for the soldiers. Beside the keeper’s apartment, there is only one room, which is neither cieled nor white-washed. The women are entitled to whatever they can earn by their labour, and there were eleven of them spinning. But on Sundays, having no allowance or religious service, as the keeper informed me, they lie in bed.

The Tolbooth is in the Tower, has no apartments for the keeper, no court, no water, no sewers, and feerns as if it was never white-washed: allowance to prisoners 4-d. a day.

1787, Aug. 3, Prisoners 4.*

In my former publication, I gave but a short account of the prisons at Edinburgh, because I then hoped from the spirited exertions of Mr. Steuart the late provost, that a new gaol would fuon be built; but I am sorry to find his designs have been frustrated.

w I would not forget the favour the magistrates did me in presenting me with the freedom of the city, and so politely accompanying me to the poor-house; and in their readiness to make any alteration for the benefit of their fellow creatures. Yet, as several of the girls here, and at the poor-house in Glasgow, were employed in tambour work; I shall beg leave to observe, that the employment of poor children in ornamental work ought never to be the general mode; since if they are afterwards to come out into the world as common servants, or the wives of the labouring poor, it will be found that a readiness in the ordinary and coarser kinds of female work, would have been of much greater service than the acquirement of arts which they have-ncKime or occasion to practise.

La I freely

Ayr.

Glasgow.

House

OF

Correc-

tion.

Paisley

Tolbooth.

Edin-

burgh.

j6

SCOTLAND.

Sect. V.

F.din- I freely related my remarks to the Lord Provost, — that the Tolbooth flood in burgh. tj,e fame improper place — that it had no court, and was not white-walked— that the

gaoler had no apartment in the prison — that he was suffered to sell spirituous and other

liquors,* — and to lerve the prisoners with their allowance of bread \ — that his fees

House were high, J and that he had no salary. || I added, that in the House of Correction

there were forty-seven women C in three close rooms, some of them lying sick; * that no

'ORREC-

TI0N> magistrate ever looked in upon them, and that no clergyman ever attended them, or used any endeavours to reclaim them. He replied, c( they were so hardened it could have no effect.” I differed in my opinion from his Lordship, and told him, that on seriously conversing a few minutes with several of them, I saw the tears in their eyes.—I further took the liberty to observe, that the splendid improvements carrying on in their places of entertainment, streets, squares, bridges, and the like, seemed to occupy all the attention of the gentlemen in office, to the total negleSl of this essential branch of the police:

* Whiskey is fold, in the tolbooth at three-pence a gill; porter three-pence halfpenny a bottle; small beer one penny a bottle. —Garniflo is paid by every civil debtor, for oil to lamps two-pence j a pint and a half of whiskey English measure one {billing and sixpence.

f The prisoners at the tolbooth are served with halfpenny rolls. Aug. 5, 1787, weight, of the whitest, 4 oz. common fort, 6 oz. The rolls in the city weighed rather more, were better baked, and three fold for Some of the transports have been here upwards of two years: their allowance is eight halfpenny rolls a day, or three-pence in money. One Thomas Gordon, who was relpited, has been in this prison five years and ten months. I was informed, that not long since, a poor wretch under sentence of death was respited during his majesty’s pleasure; but after sixteen months, he was brought out and executed.

t For the release of one woman in Aug. 1787, whose debt was only 6 s. 6d. the following demands were paid,

£. S. D.

For Prison dues (thirty-seven nights) 105 Relief money of 6s. 6d. - - - o o ii

Servants - ---008

Clerk - ---008

1 1 ioi

In Feb. 1787, from a debtor confined only two days, the fees demanded were £\y: 6: 5}; which being paid under proiejl, and complaint brought by petition before the sheriff, after considerable expense, and three months attendance, the money was returned.

jj In every view, salaries would be proper; and the keeper, clerks, and other servants would prefer them to their uncertain perquisites. In Feb. 1785, Thomas Dallas, a prisoner, presented a petition to the Lords of Council and Session, complaining of fees. The keeper in his answer uses these words: “ He dedicates his “ whole time to the duties of his office, and that was meant to yield an independent subsistence for him, although “ by his appointment to the office he is burdened with annuities and unavoidable expenses to the amount of about “ £70 iterling, yearly.”

Several of the women had been there upwards of a year, and knew not the term of their confinement. There was no separation between those who had been frequently committed, and those who had never before been in prison.

*'* Two of these very fck women were afterwards removed from their room, which was dirty and offensive, (about twelve feet by fix) into a spacious room in the poor-house, and by kind attention were soon in a way of recovery.

for.

Sect. V.

SCOTLAND.

-77

for though, as a private person, I might not expect their regard to the remarks I had made in my repeated visits and publications; yet, I hoped they would have paid some deference to the opinion of the legislature, expressed in the humane and salutary clauses of the late acts of parliament; which, from the unaltered state of the prisons of this city, they seemed entirely to have disregarded.

In the Slate of the Prisons published in 1784, is inserted an account of the number of prisoners convicted of capital crimes in Scotland from 1768 to 1782. I shall give, at the end of the book, a list of the persons adjudged to capital punishments from ill of January 1783, to aoth of August 1787, as taken from the records. (See Table, No. 1.)

I frequently visited the Royal Infirmary, and could not but observe the want of a dietary in the wards, and that the patients are prohibited the use of those convenient baths that are in this hospital. The brick floors, which are general here, appear to me improper; as, by their hiding the dirt, they may prevent a due regard to cleanliness; and the many interstices afford a lodgment for filth, which is not easily got out from them.

The Orphan Hospital is in a flourishing condition. Two wings are now added, by the generous contribution of Mr. Hod, the Treasurer; who abates not in his assiduous attention.

I made several visits to the Charity Work-house, and found it clean, and a proper attention paid to the numerous inhabitants (584). When I was here four years ago, the house was in debt £2000, which is now increased to £4000. This is owing (except fioooo to Sir JFilliam Forbes and Co.) to the meal-men, butchers &c; so that instead of five per cent, interest, they probably pay fifteen or twenty. A proper representation of the state of the house was made to the magistrates in February 1787, by fix of the gentlemen managers, who had attentively examined the funds of the house; and they declared, that unless an effectual supply were provided, they were resolved to resign their charge.

There are many other charitable institutions in this city, which I omit to mention; but I shall take some notice of the.neat, quiet, and comfortable retreat for old people-, which has this inscription over the gate.

“When this fabric was built is uncertain, but in the year 1567 it was made an “ Hospital for old People.—The fabric became in a great measure ruinous, and some parts “ ofit uninhabitable. In the year 1726 the reparations were begun, and fifteen new rooms “ added by charitable donations — which will be supplied by old persons as the revenue is “ increased by donations.—£300 sterling entitles the donor to a presentation of a burgess, “ widow of a burgess, or child of a burgess, male or female. And £350 sterling gives the “ donor a right to present any person whatsoever, not married, nor under fifty years of age.”

In this hospital, each person has his own room, eleven feet by eight and a half, in which is a cupboard and window. These rooms open into a passage twelve feet and a half wide, at the end of which is a fitting room, for such as choose to associate together. A chaplain reads prayers morning and evening. There is a garden, and other conveniences. They have roast meat three times a week, and boiled three times, and eleven bottles of good beer;

coals.

Edin-

burgh.

Infirmary.

Orphan

Hospital-

Work-

house.

Hospital

FOR OLD

People.

IRELAND.

Sect. VI.

Edin-

burgh.

Hadding-

ton.

Dunbar,

Dublin.

coals, clothes and linen are also provided; but the allowance for washing is only sixpence a month. The circumstance of each person’s having a window at command was very agreeable to me, as I have often observed, and lately at Norwich hojptal for old people, where many lodge in the fame room, that the infirmity, or peevishness of one person, has been the cause of half stifling the rest, for want of the admission of (that cordial of life) air.

HADDINGTON County Goal. There are three rooms above stairs for debtors, one called the burgesses’ room, and four on the ground floor, for criminals. Dirty and never white-wafiied: no court: no water. In this and most of the prisons in Scotland the gaolers have no apartments.

1787, Aug. 16, one Debtor and one Criminal.

DUNBAR. In the Prison here, are two large rooms above for debtors, and one dark room below (called thieves hole) for criminals. No court; no water.

1787, Aug. 16, two Debtors, who were alimented at eight-pence a day each.

SECTION VI.

IRISH PRISONS AND HOSPITALS.

In 1787 and 1788, I visited the Prisons in Dublin, and all the County Gaols in Ireland; and had the pleasure to find that, in many places, gentlemen were attentive to this important part of the police. The grand juries have granted very liberal present-ments, for the purpose of repairing or rebuilding their gaols, and for supplying prisoners with necessaries in sickness and health. On seeing gentlemen so liberal and benevolent, I could not but refieft with great concern, that many of the prisons now building will be monuments of the unskilfulnefs of the architefls, who are ignorant of what constitutes a Jecitre and healthy prison.

The new gaols, having pompous fronts, appear like palaces to the lower class of people in Ireland; and some persons object against them on this account, especially those who are obliged to contribute towards their expense, and think it would be better if they were leys commodious; but if ftribi regulations were observed, and an act passed, absolutely prohibiting beer, as well as all forts of spirituous liquors, from coming into a prison; and excluding visitants, except a few, and those at fixed times: then, there would be no danger of these gaols appearing too agreeable abodes; and the fear of such restraints would have a good tendency to prevent crimes; or the restraints themselves might be the means of reformation.

I shall not enlarge in my description of the county gaols, as an Inspector-general of the prisons in Ireland is appointed,-) who is to make his report at the beginning of every

* See further on this subject in the remarks at the conclujion. f Act 26th of Geo. III. Chap. xxvn. Sect. 30.

fession.

Sect. VI.

IRELAND.

79

fession. * Yet I would just mention some defects, which will be obvious to the grand juries, if the judges in their charges insist on their visiting those county gaols. — In every prison there should be a room appropriated to the magistrates, where they may hold their adjourned sessions, or meet to redress grievances. Their presence would, in a great measure, prevent improprieties, and promote order and regularity in those places.

At DUBLIN Newgate, there are no proper drains, no baths, no apartments for the gaoler. — Many of the women lay on flag-stones, with a very little straw worn to dust.— On the men’s fide, several boys, from nine to twelve years of age, were confined with the most daring offenders.—There are many instances of persons dying by intoxication and fighting: one lay dead when I was in the infirmary, and another was killed a few days after. J But the magistrates having determined to make an alteration in this prison, I doubt not but a proper reparation of prisoners, and an obligation on the keeper to reside in die prison, will prevent many irregularities; especially as they now have the constant assistance of a worthy and attentive clergyman. At my last visit, there was plenty of water in both the courts, and the women’s court was paved.

1787, May 29, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 190.

1788, March 20, - - o. - - - 220.

Bridewell. An old house.—No proper sewers:—no materials for work. At one of my visits, I found that a person, lately committed, had several of his idle companions let in, who were playing with him at Tennis. J

1787, May 28, Prisoners 6.

1788, March 20, - - 12.

Police Prison. An old house repairing for a prison, according to the Act of 26th of Geo. III. Chap. xxiv. The night-rooms ate dungeons seven steps under ground.

Though in Sect. xxiv. ducking-stools are mentioned, and a large bath in the middle of the yard was designed for that purpose, yet I hope that this dangerous kind of severity, to young women, will not be used.

1787, June 27, Petty offenders 32.

17883 March 24, - 12.

* His first report was very full, and laid open many seenes of exaftion, abuse and cruelty, which were partly owing to the magistrates’ negligence and inattention to their duty.

+ I have good authority to assert, that in this prison a puncheon of whilkey has been drunk in a week._

Garnish is not abolilked; and prisoners will fell their bread at any price to procure spirituous liquors.

I It is a great defect in the police of this country that there are no proper places for the commitment and punishment of petty offenders: for the gaols, where there is neither solitary confinement, nor employment, and where frequent seenes of riot and drunkenness occur, as in mod counties, are very unfit places for the corrosion of morals. Yet here persons sentenced at the assize for a fortnight’s confinement, or for a trifling fine, are often detained till the next assize, through incapacity of paying the fees.

Dublin.

Newgate.

I found

8o

IRELAND.

Sect. VI.

Dublin* Ho v 5 E

OF

Industry

Four-

Court

Marshal-

sea.

City Marshal-S£ A.

1 found the House of Industry, as formerly, very clean and orderly, and the governors, with unabated alliduity and zeal, attending to this useful and humane intlitution. The bread and other provisions were very good. The governors have wifely adopted the Dutch mode of devoting the whole of Saturday to cleanliness, such as walking all the rooms, tables, forms, children &c. This is not only conducive to the health of the residents, but will promote in them habits of cleanliness.

The number in this house May 31, 1787, was 1375, and March 24, 1788, was 1627.

FOUR-COURT MARSHALSEA Prison. The lower rooms very dirty; — never white-wafbed. —Six or eight in a room (about fourteen feet by thirteen). Each pays a penny a night; — above stairs fifteen-pence a week; — for an entire room, five shillings a week; except one room (thirteen feet and a half by ten and a half) the pay for which is 31. f^d. All are without furniture. The rooms are crowded with wives (or reputed wives) children, dogs &c. In 1110ft of the lower rooms, the debtors fell whiskey;* one is a pawn-broker’s shop. On the night preceding one of my visits, many had been gambling, drinking and fighting. The committee of the House of Commons reported March 12, 1787, that “ this prison appears a seene of disorder, irregularity, and intoxication. ” f

1787, May 29, Debtors 150.

1788, March 21, - - - 180.

CITY MARSHALSEA Prison. An old building, dirty, and not white-washed. Here also there had been a seene of confusion and riot the night before, which had brought hither the sheriff, with the city guard, who conveyed three of the prisoners to Newgate. The wives and children of the debtors, living with them, bring in spirits, and this makes most of the lower rooms gin shops: J to which may be added, that the prisoners themselves are quite idle and unemployed. The garnish is two bottles of whiskey. Here were persons confined who had large families, whose debts and costs were under ten

* Mr. Dexter the marshal told me, he was well aflhred from the heft information, that when his prison was full, a hogshead of whiskey had been fold in a week, in a clandestine manner, beside what was fold from

his 0-M?aj tap.

-j- It may be thought severe and cruel, especially to debtors, who are not delinquents, that no liquors should be admitted into prisons. But, though the greatest tenderness should be shewn to such unfortunate persons, yet the restraint appears necessary; for many sober persons coming into prison, from uneasiness of mind, and the influence of bad examples, have acquired those habits which ended in their ruin: and, the quiet and orderly frequently complain of being disturbed by the noisy and quarrelsome. It appears therefore absolutely necessary, that a new body of rules and orders be jixed by parliament, for the government of debtors, as well as felons, in all prisons. And that not even felons, much less debtors, should be left to the capricious mandates of an . insulting gaoler or his turnkeys.

X Dr. Scott, physician to the marshalfeas, informed me in June 1787, that he had just; loft three men out of four, by excessive drinking, in the city marshalsea. They had one morning drunk twelve shillings worth of brandy in punch, beflde porter and other liquors.

shillings.

Ay

Sect. VI.

IRELAND.

Si

shillings. A charitable society for the relief of poor debtors distributes a lixpenny loaf weekly to the most necessitous in this prison, and the Four-court Marshalsea.

1787, May 29, Debtors 92. 1788, March 21, Debtors 66.

Thomas-Court and honore, prison for debtors in the Liberty. No alteration.

1787, June 2, Prisoners 2. 1788, April 30, Prisoners none.

I shall ulfo give a Sketch of the Hate of some of the Infirmaries or Hofipitals in Ireland.

Mercers’ Hofipital, in the middle of the city, was a few years since very dirty, offensive and unhealthy; but now it is one of the cleanest in Dublin. The wire-lattice in the windows of the wards and passages is an improvement. The tellers of the beds are harbours for dull. Apertures in the wards (as in the infirmary at Leeds) and more frequent white-walhing would contribute to the recovery of the patients.

In Stephens’s Hofipital the wards are dole and offensive; the windows were Ihut when the days were fine. The indiscriminate admission of visitants is highly improper, especially of men into the women’s wards, and more particularly, where the beds, as here, are enclosed with wood and curtains, f

I have seen a person come for admilTion to this hospital, when the effects of the frequent use of spirituous liquors have appeared by the dropsical water forcing itself through the pores of his Ikin.J

Simpson’s

* Many persons in this city, in order to have the benefit of an insolvent aft, come to prison under friendly afiions, and having brought friends, who give the keepers security for the debts, are not confined: yet, after an insolvent ail, the keepers make their return on oath that such persons are in actual custody.

f All hospitals should have set days for visitants, and only two in a week (as at the Royal Hospitals at Plymouth and Gosport): the nurse, and proper persons, should always be present to preserve order and quietness. The regulations should be put up in every ward, and the nurses immediately discharged for any neglect, or impropriety.

% In almoll every village in Ireland, there are several public houses for the sale of spirituous liquors; and when gentlemen, from a regard to the morals and health of their domestics and tenants, have applied to prevent licenses to such houses, the publicans have obtained them from the commissioners of excise in Dublin, because the means of increasing the revenue.

On a resolution at a vefey-meeting in the vellry-room of St. Mary’s Dublin, April z, 1788, to wait on the Lord Lieutenant, the gentlemen feted, That, upon a moll accurate inquiry, it appears that dram-shops “ amount to a number alarming to humanity; there being in the parish in which they were assembled above c< one seventh of the total number of houses; in St. Werburgh's, no fewer in proportion; in St. Mart's one of fifth; and in St. James’ s one fourth of the whole.” — In Dr. Atkin's Remarks on the different success, with respect to health, of some attempts to pass the winter in high northern latitudes, in the Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, *voI. I. pag. 89. having related several accounts, he thus observes as to the important article of their drink: It appears, that in all the unsuccessful infences, vinous and spirituous

et liquors were used, and probably in considerable quantities. Thus, in one of the Dutch journals, notice is t( taken, that an allowance of brandy begun to be served to each man as soon as the middle of September.

Writers on the scurvy seem, almoll unanimously, to consider a portion of these liquors as an useful addition to

M “ the

City

Marshal-

sea.

Thomas-Cou RT.

Mercer’s

Hospital.

Step h l ns’s Hospital.

Found-

LIWG

Hospital.

Sect. VI.

Simpson’s llojpit-al for the Mind and gouty, is an excellent institution. The rooms are neat and clean; and the committee board is well attended. The patients are kindly supplied with newspapers for their amusement; but are, improperly, indulged in the idle habit of taking tobacco and snuff, each having an allowance of four-pence a week for that purpose. The kitchen and offices being, improperly, under ground, were dark and not clean. The greatest attention to cleanliness is the more necessary where offices are under ground.

In St. Patrick’s or Swift’s Hospital for Lunatics, the rooms (twelve feet by eight) are lofty, and the passages fourteen feet wide. Yet for such unhappy objects, I would prefer the Dol-huis at Amsterdam, and the Hospital at Constantinople, where the rooms open into corridors and gardens, which is far better than their opening into passages, as here, and in England.

The Lying-in Hospital is a good institution; the rooms in 1787 were quiet and clean: and in 1788, I found the tellers removed, the furniture new, and the greatest attention paid to the patients.

In the Foundling Hospital children are received at all times.* A noble institution, if there were more attention to cleanliness and order. No fixed hours for meals. — The linen brown:—white is more proper in such houses. — On viewing the children in 1787, I soon perceived the effects of the loss of lady Arabella Denny’s visits, an excellent lady, who for many years paid great attention to this hospital. — In 1788 I saw many fine children, and the girls were neatly clothed, but several had eruptions on their hands.

“ the diet of persons exposed to the causes of this disease; and due deference ought certainly to be paid to “ their knowledge and experience: but, convinced as I am, that art never made so fatal a present to mankind “ as the invention of diddling spirituous liquors, and that they are seldom or never a necessary, but almost “ always a pernicious article in the diet of men in health, I cannot but look with peculiar satisfaction on the *• confirmation this opinion receives by the events in these narratives.

*( The temporary glow and elevation caused by spirituous liquors are, I imagine, very fallacious tokens “ of their good effects; as they are always succeeded by a greater reverse, and tend rather to consume and “ exhaust, than to feed and invigorate, the genuine principle of vital energy. Another extremely pernicious

effect of these liquors, is, the indolence and stupidity they occasion, rendering men inattentive to their own * preservation, and unwilling to use those exertions which are so peculiarly necessary in fixations like those

described in the foregoing narratives.”

* Foundling Hospitals may be considered in /wo lights; one as charities for the maintenance and education of poor deserted children, who otherwise might fall victims to ill treatment and neglect. The other, as means to prevent child-murder, by providing a refuge against the shame and disgrace attending the discovery of illegitimate pregnancy. For both these purposes it is requisite that admission into such hospitals should be easy j but, particularly for the latter, it is essential that it may be obtained without any form, or delay, and in perfeSffecrecy. It is another question whether such institutions may not do more harm than good, by encouraging lxcentioufnefs but certainly they cannot prevent the murder of children unless the mothers can get rid of the charge without discovery. Those hospitals, therefore, in which admission is made very difficult, and only to be obtained by powerful interest and recommendation, seem to me absolutely useless, and only to serve as a provision for the baflards of gentlemen, or of such as by their connexions have no need of public relief.

There

Sect. VI.

IRELAND.

83

There were fifty-six children in the infirmaries. Soap is not here allowed, though absolutely necessary for washing the hands of children, whose parents, being of the lowed: class, are in this city generally deficient in cleanliness, and have a tendency to scrophulous disorders.

Blue-Coat Hospital. The magnificent front is almost entirely occupied by die officers and servants of this house, whose apartments extend to the back front, where they have a large garden, in which is a bowling green and walks round it: but the place for the children’s diversion is a flip of ground immured with high walls, having in the midst of it an infirmary with fix beds. The vault bad. The windows in the pafi'age not capable of being opened. The children have no vegetables of any kind with their food.— By the constant use of meat, they are habituated to a very expensive diet. When I ob-jedted to this mode of living, the reply was, “ Our children are healthy and well. ” But they are neither healthier nor finer boys, than those in the Hibernian lchool, where a very different mode of diet is adopted: for there the extensive garden is appropriated to the cultivation of vegetables for the children.

Hospital for Incurables. Both outside and inside dirty: — the rooms offensive: — no rules:—no diet table:—the house-keeper in the country. The mistresses of such houses should never be permitted to be absent.

Military Hojptal. I observed in my former publication that the military hospital was -an old and incommodious building, and that the patients were almost stifled; but I had the pleasure to find in 1788, that a spacious and airy infirmary, adjoining to the Phoenix Park, was nearly finished; and I hope the fine Itream of water will be brought under the building; which, by forcing pumps, may prevent the closets and drains from being offensive, and the baths may then be well supplied in a receiving room, for washing the patients on their admission, similar to the practice in the royal hof-pitals at Plymouth and Goiport.

The Marine Hojptal is a new institution, and seems a well conducted charity. March 23d, 1788, there were 140 fine healthy boys.

DUBLIN County Gaol. At Kilmainham, the four dungeons (called towers) were very dirty: the windows are level with the ground, and look towards the street; in consequence of which, spirits are easily conveyed to the criminals, who are often intoxicated. One evening, I -providentially came just in time to extinguish a fire in the straw on which they lay.—I have leen the debtors drinking wine, and some of them drunk, at eleven in the morning. Their rooms, staircase &c. -were very dirty.—At my last visit the dungeons were much crowded, and several of the prisoners were sick. Here is no court, and no access to water.—A new prison in a fine situation, is now building. 1787, May 28, Debtors 7. P’elons &c. 27.

1788, March 12, - - 8. - - - 47.

Found-

L I N G

Hospital.

Blue-Coat

Hospital.

Hospital

for

Incura-

bles.

Military

Hospital.

Marine

Hospital.

Kilmain-

ham.

M 2

The

S4

IRELAND.

Leinster Circuit.

Meath

Hospital.

The Meath Hofipital in Dublin is the County Infirmary, and though situated in a very close part of the city, yet the wards were clean and quiet, and not in the least offensive at any of my visits. The gentlemen of the faculty who attend here, have generously resigned to the hospital the bounty of £100 annually paid by government.* March 25th, 1788, 25 Patients.

LEINSTER CIRCUIT.

I

I

Wicklow. WICKLOW County Gaol adjoins to the sessions house. On the first floor there is one room for debtors and another for women. Down fix steps there are two very damp rooms called the low gaol for felons, which have no air or light but by the iron-grated door towards the street. A small court: no water.

The county proposes to build a new gaol.

1788, May 1, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 9

Wicklow County Bridewell is a flight building; and, like all such prisons in this country, has no materials for work. May id, 1788, 1 Lunatic.

Hospital. The County Infirmary at Wicklov, is a house rented by the county. It is out of repair—the cieling of the kitchen fallen in. There were nine beds—the bedding very old, and linen only on one bed. Diet, a sixpenny loaf every four days, and three pints of milk every day.j- By the account book of the worthy treasurer, the Rev. Dr. Walls, it appears that the hospital is poor, the whole income being but about £300 a year. The apothecary has a salary of^25 for making up the drugs, which are bought at Dublin, and the surgeon is paid the £100 a year, allowed by government. As the funds are low, the diet (especially for the recovering patients) is scanty: furniture also is much wanted. Would it not therefore be proper to apply part of the king’s £100 per am. to the benefit of the house, as is done in some other infirmaries; especially considering, that the surgeon has advantages by pupils or apprentices, and but few patients ? Their number on May 1 ft, 1788, being only fix.

* Every county hospital has by the king’s letter, according to the Act in 1766, £100 a year to be applied cither to the payment of a physician or surgeon, or some other use of the hospital, as the governors or go-verneifes shall think proper: and besides the endowments and annual contributions, there is presented by the county /pco, for the expenses of these hospitals. The surgeon generally receives from the treasurer the £100 from government; and drugs or medicines, often to a large amount, are charged to the other accounts.

| Bread and milk is a very proper diet for the general class of patients admitted into the Infirmaries in this country, as they are subject to scrophulous complaints, arising from intemperance and the want of attention to cleanliness.

WEXFORD

t 1

Leinster Circuit.

IRELAND.

85

WEXFORD County Gaol. This prison was clean and white-waftied, and the prisoners had proper bedding. A new court, with a sea water bath, and an infirmary and court are some of the improvements which the county is making. I hope the ostensive-nefs of the sewers in the prison will be remedied.

1788, May 2, Debtors 7. Felons &c. 12.

The County Infirmary at Wexford is well fituated—out of the town—and has no buildings adjoining. Having been built for a private house, the cielings are too low. The upper falhes in this, and indeed in almost all the county infirmaries, are not moveable as they ought to be. There were twelve beds with good bedding and sheets, enclosed improperly in boxes, though the boxes were somewhat larger than in other infirmaries. Diet 2\d in white bread, and three pints of new milk a day. The funds are under £300 per annum. Till lately, the apothecary had been allowed £6 a year for making up the medicines, and was to furnifii the drugs at prime colt: but his bills in 1786 amounting to £ 100, the governors have since thought proper to order the drugs to be bought in Dublin (and having medicinal herbs in their own garden, they have ordered the surgeon, who is paid the king’s £100) to make up the medicines. The expense therefore in 1787 fell considerably below £40. This infirmary enjoys the benefit of an annual ball, which in 1787 produced ^40: 5: 6.—May 2d, 1788, 12 Patients.

KILKENNY County and City Gaols. In the County Gaol there were some improvements, and it was white-waftied, and cleaner than at my former visits; but still there are dungeons, and the windows are towards the street. Here I saw a neat little woman, who was committed for assisting her husband when he was fighting and had his jaw broken. Bread allowance two-pence a day. I carefully weighed the twopenny loaves of both the prisons (which are served by the fame baker) and found the weight on June 9, 1787, one pound and three ounces. By the last allize, on the 23d of the preceding month, the weight ought to have been one pound ten ounces and two drams. A fourpenny loaf of household-bread in the city, whiter and better than that in the prison, weighed three pounds and one ounce; but by the assize, it should have weighed three pounds four ounces and four drams. To prevent such abuses, it was enacted, 3d of Geo. III. Chap, xxviii. “ That the minister or curate shall weekly deliver bread, to be by them, “ or either of them, bought upon the belt terms that bread is usually fold for, in the “ parish for which, by the said act, he is allowed “ a sum not exceeding £10 yearly.”

1787, June 9, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 13.

Kilkenny County Hofipital. A spacious house, — but there were only five patients at my visits in 1787 and 1788. — The house-keeper complained of the poverty of the hospital. — Two medical gentlemen attend, each of whom receives £40 a year.

Wexford.

Hospital.

Kilkenny.

Hospital.

CARLOW

86

IRELAND.

Leinster Circuit.

Carlow.

Hospital.

Kildare.

Hospital.

Mary-

borough.

Hospital,

CARLOW County Gaol was built in 1783. The cells are too close; sewers offensive. Allowance in bread, which is distributed only twice a week. The inspector has a salary of £10, and for his office of inspector £20, according to a late aft.

1788, April 14, Debtors 4. Felons &c. 5.

At Carlow the County Infirmary is properly situated out of the town. The patients lay in close boxes. The wards were quiet. — The floors were sanded, which I always consider as an expedient to hide the dirt. April 14th, 1788, 10 Patients.

KILDARE County. A new County Gaol is building at Naas in the centre of the town. The situation is improper, and the plan bad: — the ftaircaie narrow (two feet nine inches): — the entrance and passages dark. — The vaults in the passages mull be offensive and unhealthy.

1787, June 26, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 19.

The County Infirmary at Kildare has fix good rooms on the first floor, three of which were occupied by seven patients — Ibme had no sheets — others only one — the blankets were dirty and worn out. Diet, a twopenny loaf of white bread, a quart of new milk, and water gruel every day. Fuel allowed only from the first of October to the first of April, a limitation exceedingly improper in hospitals — here is a good bath, but it is seldom or never used.

MARYBOROUGH County Gaol. A court having been lately enclosed, and several rooms added, the apartments towards the street, and the damp cellar are not now used. Allowance in bread 3d. a day; weight in 1787 ilb. s'Toz. Here, and at several other places, I had the pleasure to find, that the prisoners were not defrauded in their bread. The county proposes to build a new gaol: I hope not on the old ground, though it adjoins to the court-house; as, at a little distance, the place where the old barracks flood is spacious, and has every advantage for the site of a county gaol, being airy and near the river, and has a well of fine water.

1787, June 25, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 11.

1788, April 16, - - 1. - - - 7.

The Infirmary at Maryborough for Queen’s County is an old house in which are four rooms for patients. The floor of the room below was dirt, and the walls were black and filthy: it had in it three patients. In two of the rooms above there were thirteen beds and fifteen patients. In a room called the tower, two patients, and a little dirty hay on the floor, on which they said the nurse lay. This room was very dirty, the cieling covered with cobwebs, and in several places open to the sky. Here I saw one naked, pale object, who was under the necessity of tearing his shirt for bandages for his fraftured thigh. No sheets in the house, — and the blankets were very dirty. No vault: no water. — The diet is a threepenny loaf and two pints of milk;

or

Munster Circuit.

IRELAND.

87

or rather, if my tafle did not deceive me, of milk and water.—The surgery was a closet about ten feet by fix; the furniture consisted of ten vials, some of them without corks, of a little salve stuck on a board, some tow, and pieces of torn paper scattered on the floor. This hospital, besides the ,fioo a year, has a county presentment of ,£200, the fame as that at Calhel. These two, are the only infirmaries in the kingdom which have this large county presentment. April 16th, 1788, 20 Patients.

PHILIPSTOWN County Gaol was (lightly built about twenty-five years ago, and is quite out of repair and insecure. The rooms are dirty, and seem to have never been white-washed. The court not secure, and the pump long useless. The gaoler (and not the county) was lately fined for the escape of some prisoners.

1788, April 18, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 3.

In the County Infirmary at Tullamore, there are two rooms on the first floor: in that for men there were five beds, and in the other for women three. The house was clean and quiet, and in the men’s room there was a good fire. There being only one female patient she was in the kitchen. The accounts are regularly kept, and a proper attention is paid to the patients. A foundation is laid for a new infirmary. April 13th, 1788, 6 Patients.

MUNSTER CIRCUIT.

WATERFORD County Gaol. A woman was confined with the men in their dungeon. A lunatic now as at a former visit occupied the women’s room, who, as the gaoler said, had been there twenty seven years in March 1787, though by the 3d of Geo. III. Chap. xxvm. the grand juries are empowered to raise any sum not exceeding £30, to build a room, in addition to the present gaols, for persons of insane mind, and outrageous behaviour.

About a week before my last visit, seven prisoners unrivetted the bolts with which they were ironed, and having made with them an aperture in the wall, effected their escape. I have often complained that these bolt irons are so much used in Ireland, as they are very painful to the prisoners, and dangerous instruments when they get them off, which is done without much difficulty.

A new county gaol, too splendid, and built on a bad plan, is not yet occupied.

1787, June 10, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 6.

1788, May 4, - - 2. - - - 4.

Waterford City Gaol was dirty. In this, and in most other gaols, there was no table of fees or regulations. Here I found the county gaoler, who told me he was

committed

Mary-

borough

County

Hospital.

Philips-

town.

Infirmary.

Water-

ford.

IRELAND.

Munster Circuit.

S3

W.\ TE R~ FORD.

House

OF

Industry.

Infir-

M A RIES.

CI.ON MELL.

Hospital.

committed and fined £$, for Jiriking a saucy boy, who would deliver spirituous liquors in at the window to his pnloners, some of whom were then intoxicated.

1787, Jan. 10, Debtors 13. Felons &c. 7.

1788, May 4, - - 4. - - - 7.

Waterford House of Industry. This is a clean well regulated house, and does great credit to the gentlemen who preside over it. The employment is picking oakum, and weaving. The number in this house May 4th, 1788, was 122.

Lord Tyrone's Infirmary at Waterford is an old house with four rooms for patients. The beds were in covered cafes—had a little draw— and some old blankets — there were no more than two or three sheets for all the beds. No water. 1788, May 4th, ten patients.

The City Infirmary is an old house adjoining Lord Tyrone's and communicating with it. The rooms and furniture were dirty. No water. The surgery confided of one pot of ointment or salve, and eighteen old empty drawers. 1788, May 4th, seven patients.—The corporation is building a spacious infirmary, in a fine situation, from savings out of an estate originally granted for an hospital for lepers.

CLONMELL County Gaol. The fix dungeons very dirty.—A large dunghil in the yard. — A military guard, as in mod of the prisons in Ireland, confiding of twelve men, under the command of a serjeant and corporal. — Some of them were playing at tennis in the prison yard. Such diversions as occasion riot and confusion should, in these places, be JiriSlly prohibited. — Several prisoners died here a little before the April assize, 1787. At my lad visit 1 found that men and women debtors were confined in the fame room. Though the dungeons were crowded, yet at night some of the wives and children of the felons continued with them. Few of the men were in irons, and the savage cudom of putting irons on ■women is practised only in England. A new gaol for this county is now building.

1787, June 12, Debtors 10. Felons &c. 51.

1788, May 5, - - 19. - - - 62.

In the County Infirmary at Cashel, there are four good wards, the governors duly attend, and great care seems to be taken of the patients. When their funds were low, they reduced the surgeon’s salary to ^50, but on their increasing, they raised it again in November 1787 to the former sum of £80. By a late act this hospital has a presentment from the county of £200 a year. The drugs for the patients are bought in Dublin, and paid for by the treasurer of the hospital. I would just lubmit to the attention of these gentlemen, whether removing the wood tellers of the beds, and making windows in the wards, for producing a better circulation of air, opposite to t'nose with which they are already furnished, would not render this infirmary more favourable to the health of the patients. April 13th, 1788, 15 Patients.

CORK

Munster Circuit.

IRELAND.

89

ClTV

Gaol.

CORK County Gaol. No court.—I few spirituous liquors conveyed to the pri- Cor.*: foners; and this cannot be entirely prevented by the moll careful keeper, where the windows are towards the street. The prison was clean and quiet. The placid countenances of the prisoners bespoke the keeper to be humane and attentive.

1787^ June 13, Debtors 31. Felons &c. 64.

17885 May 145 - - 23. - - - 73.

Cork City Gaol. No court: no water on the felons’ fide: the prison very dirty and offensive. Here also I saw spirituous liquors given in to the prisoners. By the confusion, discontent and hatred, discovered in the countenances of the prisoners when the gaoler was with me in 1787, I am convinced that he was negligent and inattentive:* but at my last vilit they had a new keeper, and the gaol was clean and quiet. Here were several prisoners detained for their lees to the clerk of the crown, sheriffs, gaoler and turnkey. Debtors have a sixpenny loaf a week; the allowance of criminals, in this city, is only two eightpenny loaves in a week (on Monday and Friday); but by the Act of Geo. III. grand juries are enjoined to present three-pence a day for the subsistence of every person confined for an offence. Inspector, Rev. Mr. Forjayeth, salary £20; and ^10 for distributing the prisoners’ bread. Keeper’s salary ,£25, and ,£10 in lieu of fees of persons discharged the spring assize 1787.

1787, June 13, Debtors 67. Felons &c. 45.

1788, May 14, - - 76.f - - - 49.

Cork City Bridewellquite out of repair:—no court:—no water:—no straw:—no Bridewell materials for work. 1787, June 14, Debtors 2. Criminals 7.

1788, May 14, - - 4. - 5.

Cork House of Industry. Some of the rooms were clean; but many of the beds were only a little straw, worn to dust.—The neglect of a frequent removal of die heaps of dull &c. in the courts here, at Clonmell, and many other places, may be one cause of unheal -thinefs.—June 15th, 1787, the number confined here was eighty men, and one hundred and twenty women. A few years ago the profits by the work of the house amounted to ,£18:12:6. But of late, in consequence of allowing all a fourth of their own earnings, and another fourth to the steward and house-keeper, the house is become a gainer; for the profits of the work amounted in 1786 to £26: 18: 6. J

House

Industry.

* A keeper should be firm and steady, yet mild; and he should vilit every day all the wards of his prison. Such a man will have much more influence and authority than the violent and passionate gaoler, who is profane and inhuman, and often beating and kicking his prisoners.

t In this city, and at Limerick, there is a society for the relief and discharge of debtors for small sums. This useful and benevolent society is greatly beholden to Mr. Archdeacon Corker for his unremitted care and attention.

t The Mayor and other Magistrates of this city, will please to accept of my acknowledgments for their testimony of respect, in conferring upon me the freedom of their corporation, at my visit in 1787.

N In,

9°

IRELAND.

Munster Circuit.

I

Cork

Infir-

maries.

In the North Infirmary at Cork, all the rooms were close and offenfivej — not a window open in the whole house. Thole windows which had wire lattices are now close glazed. May 12th, 1788, there were eight patients.*

In the South Infirmary the wards of both the men and women were clean and fresh, and had all the windows open. None of the beds were furnished with sheets; and the blankets were dirty and torn. The men (improperly) pass through the women’s ward. Allowance for diet is two {hillings a week, but sixpence of it is paid to die nurse. With this scanty allowance, which can only supply them with potatoes and milk, I am persuaded they recover sooner than on better allowance in the close and dirty wards of the north infirmary. 1788, May 12th fix men and two women.

Found- The Foundling Hospital has been gready improved since my visit in 1787, and tIL1NC the children are more healthy. As a stream runs close to the house, a convenient bath

Hospital. j

might be easily procured. May 12th, 1788, 140 Children, f Kinsale. Kins ale Town Gaol is at the Cork gate. The debtors room is over the gateway, and has only one window. On the ground P.oor there are two rooms for criminals, properly called the black hole. No court — no water. In this prison, which is bad, and quite out of repair, the gaoler and his wife have lived forty-three years, and in that time not one prisoner has died in die house. May icth, 1788, No prisoners.

Mit- The Bridewell at Mitchells Town is a new -prison built by Lord Kingsiborough.

chells wants lime-whiting, and the windows are towards the flxeet. Here was lately a sickness

r ow n

Bride- among die prisoners, which, I apprehend, was occasioned by the very offensive sewers in

well. the rooms, and the want of a court and water. April nth, 1788, No prisoners.

" <r It is the opinion of Dr. Arbuthnot, that renewing and cooling the air in a patient’s room, by opening the bed curtains, door, and windows, in some cases letting it in by pipes, and in general the right management of air in the bed-chamber, is among the chief branches of regimen in inflammatory diseases, provided still that the intention of keeping up a due quantity of perspiration be not disappointed.” And Dr. Fardyce adds, (< By the officious and mistaken care of filly nurses in this respect, the disease is often increased and lengthened, or even proves fatal. — Numberless indeed are the mischiefs which arise from depriving the patient of cool air; the changing of which, so as to remove the putrid steams, is mofl of all necessary in putrid diseases.” — I hope I shall be excused in adding, “ In the beginning of putrid fevers (and many putrid fevers come upon a fiill habit) the patient abhors, without knowing the reason, foods which eafdy putrify, but pants after acid drinks and fruits; and such are allowed by some physicians who follow nature. Oranges, lemons, citrons, grapes, peaches, currants, nectarines, are devoured with eagemefs and gratitude. Can the distillery or the apothecary’s shop boast of such cordials ? — It appears then on the whole, that the food in a putrid fever should consist of barley, rice, oatmeal, wheat bread, sago, falop, mixed with wine, lemon, orange, citron, or chaddock juice, jellies made of currants and other acescent fruits; and when broths are thought absolutely necessary, which probably happens but seldom, they should be mixed with currant jellies, citron, lemon, and orange juices.”

Dr. Fordyce on putrid and inflammatory Fevers, 4ih edit. p. 150. -f I had the pleasure to hear that the worthy Mayor of Cork, Samual Rowland Esq. with the concurrence of the corporation, has abolished the two annual dinners on the election, and swearing-in days, of the chief magistrate and sheriffs, which were the occasion of much irregularity; and substituted in lieu thereof a permanent and mofl useful charity, to be supported by the money formerly expended therein, amounting in the whole to £200. This annual sum is to-be disposed of by trustees for the relief of indigent freemen, their wives and children 1 and there is reason to hope that it will receive a future augmentation by bequests and donations.

TRALEE

Monster Circuit. IRELAND.

TRALEE County Gaol consists of four rooms, one for debtors, two for criminals, and one (to which the ascent is by a ladder) called the infirmary. No court—no water. A woman is paid for Handing at the grate to serve the prisoners with water. There was a dunghil at the entrance of the prison, and all the rooms were dirty. Here is a military guard as at many other prisons in this country. The inspector distributes daily the county allowance in two-pennyworth of bread and a pennyworth of milk. Coals are given to debtors and felons. Gaoler’s salary £30.—A new gaol is building.

1788, April 9, Debtors 5. Felons &c. 35.

The County Infirmary at Tralee is a ruinous house—the'roof falling in. There were eight old bedsteads in four very dirty rooms—never white-waihed. The patients lay on a little hay or draw, and found their own scanty bedding. Diet, bread and milk. April 9th, 1788, 4 Patients.

LIMERICK County and City Gaol are one prison, but the debtors and felons of each are quite separate. The room (or crib) for the city felons is twenty-two feet by twenty. And into this narrow compass, there are crowded sometimes (as the gaoler told me) sixty or seventy men. The bridewell in this prison is a miserable dungeon of the fame size. No court—no w'ater. The number of Prisoners:

On the county fide, 1787, June 22, Debtors 6. Felons &c. 19.

On the city fide, -- - - - - -12. - - - 26.

1788, April 6, - - 7. - - - 10.

A new gaol is proposed. The county had sent for the ingenious architect Mr. Black-bume to direct them in fixing on a spot for that purpose; but I found, at my last visit, that a much less eligible one was chosen, being the Dean’s property.

Limerick, House of Industry. Very dirty: — no order nor regulations. In the kitchen were fowls, and in other rooms, dogs; nuisances, very common in prisons and hospitals, in this country. — At the end of the garden are several cells, where lunatics of both sexes were left to the care of one old man. Over these cells, improperly, is the infirmary, which was very dirty.—June 21ft, 1787, there were thirty-nine men and forty-two women.

Limerick County Infirmary, built in 1766, was in 1787 in very bad condition, but I had the pleasure to find it in 1788, thoroughly repaired, white-washed, and furnished with new bedding; for which the patients are indebted to the attention of Lady Hartflonge, who has also put in a cleanly and notable matron. The allowance only id. a day, for the diet of each patient. Should not the governors consider that criminals in their county gaol are allowed ‘3d. by act of parliament?—A piece of wajle ground adjoining, which belongs to Sir Henry Hartflonge, might be made of great uje to this hospital. April 6th, 1788, 16 Patients.

Another hospital in this city, in a fine situation, is almost: finished.

N 2

91

Tralee.

County

Infirmary.

Limerick.

Mouse

OF

Industry.

County'

Hospital.

CONNAUGHT

92

IRELAND.

Connaught Circuit.

Roscom-

mon.

County In fiR-

MARY.

Car RICK.

Slico.

County

Hospital.

CONNAUGHT CIRCUIT.

ROSCOMMON County Gaol. Clean and quiet—lately white-washed. The prisoners from this, and moil other gaols, are tried out of irons, which is the more necessary, as in Ireland the bolt irons, and not chains, are in general use. No water: — no vaults. The attentive local inspector, the Rev. Mr. Seton, serves out the allowance to the criminals twice a week; viz. for four men three quarts of oatmeal (about twelve ounces each man) twenty-one pound of potatoes, and five quarts of milk. A new gaol is building on nearly the fame bad construction as that at Naas.

1787, July 8, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 33.

1788, April 20, Debtors 3. - - - 13.

The County Infirmary at Roscommon, as appears by the inscription over the door, “ was built for the poor of this county, at the foie expense of Mrs. Walcott, filler to the late lord chief justice Caulfield of Donamon, 1783.” This lady also generously

subscribes £50 a year towards the support of the infirmary. The wards were quiet and not dirty, and the beds were furnished with sheets and proper bedding. Diet, 1 Lib. of bread and a quart of new milk a day. — I would just hint, the propriety of white-walhing this house and enclosing the ground before the front. —I saw no pump — no vault—no turf-house. April 10th, 1788, 10 Patients.

COUNTY of LEITRIM. The County Gaol at CARRICK on Shannon adjoins to the court-house. The criminals were in a black and dark cell several Heps under ground: the windows of this and of another night cell were towards the street. The walls of the court being ruinous, the prisoners are never out. No water. Allowance a threepenny loaf five days of the week, and two days potatoes. The county finds proper bedding for the prisoners.

1788, April 23, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 4.

SLIGO County Gaol was dirty, as is generally the case where there is no water in the court. Fine water might there be easily procured. The windows look towards the street; and when I was in the county infirmary at a little distance, I saw spirituous liquors handed in to the prisoners, and heard a noise and riot, which mull disturb the patients and neighbourhood. Two bottles of whiskey are paid for garnish here, and in many other gaols. A fourpenny loaf of the prisoners household bread weighed only 1 lb. 1302. Gaoler’s salary £30.

1788, April 21, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 19.

The County Infirmary at Sligo has two rooms with three beds in each. The walls and cieling black and dirty—the roof falling in—bedding worn out—pump out of order. The house-keeper is allowed sixpence a day for the diet of each patient, part of which (I was

told)

Connaught Circuit.

told) is a pound of bread, which I found on two several days weighed only 1302;. Here is a committee room which the governors have not used these seven years. April 21ft, 1788, 6 Patients.

CASTLEBAR County Gaol. The old gaol has no court, no water. Many poor wretches have been almost suffocated in this small prison. Forty two prisoners have been confined in a room twenty-one feet by seventeen. A new gaol is built on too small a scale, and the cells are close and dark. Gaoler’s Salary £30.

1788, March 31, Debtors 4. Felons &c. 6.

The County Infirmary at Castlebar is an old ruinous house, very dirty, and the windows were stopt with straw. No linen; and no blankets but such as are found by the patients. Only one room (eighteen feet and a half by fifteen and a half) for kitchen, turf-house and wash-house, and for the nurse’s lodging, which is under the staircase. is water-pottage and one pint of milk a day; besides one sheep’s head boiled for soup for all the patients on three days of the week, and on three other days a pennyworth of bread for each patient (weight 8 oz.). The court in this, as in many other infirmaries, is very dirty, and has no conveniences. March 31ft, 1788, 16 Patients.

GALWAY County Gaol is near the river.—There is a new court but no pump. The criminals are in two long rooms with dirt floors and no fire-place; the debtors have small rooms above stairs. Allowance to felons a sixpenny loaf of household bread every other day (weight three pound twelve ounces) which they often fell for four-pence halfpenny to buy potatoes. Gaoler’s salary £20.

1788, April 1, Debtors 4. Felons &c. 14.

Galway City and County Gaol, in a close part of the city, has no court—no water. Gaoler’s salary ^20. April ift, 1788, Debtors 7. Felons &c. 12.

County Bridewell at Louchrea. An old house—-two damp rooms on the ground floor with windows towards the street, and one room over them. Two prisoners were drinking whilkey in a pint mug. No allowance —no employment —no water, but when flooded.

The County Infirmary at Galway is an old house, with two rooms on a floor. Thole on the second floor are for patients; in one of which there were three men, and in the other, nothing but old bedsteads without bedding. All very dirty. Allowance to each, three pints of new milk, and two pennyworth of bread. — A very large house not finished is said to be intended for an infirmary.

Galway.

County*

Infirmary.

COUNTY of CLARE. ENNIS County Gaol, has been built about seven years. Only one day room for both men and women. The criminals have beds and proper bedding. Allowance a threepenny loaf (weight one pound eleven ounces): a twopenny loaf and a pennyworth of milk, as at Limerick and Tralee, would be better.

1788, April 4, Debtors 6. Felons &c.

The

Ennis.

94 IRELAND. Ulster N, W. Circuit.

Ennis The County Infirmary at Ennis, built about fifteen years ago, has two wards on the first floor, one for each sex. The floors and walls were very dirty. None of the patients wary. had sheets, two excepted, who said they brought in all their bedding; the others lay on a little hay or straw, and had hardly any blankets to cover them. No fuel. (The criminals in the county gaol had blankets and fuel). The allowance is two pennyworth of bread a day and three halfpennyworth of milk. April 3d, 1788, 16 Patients.

ULSTER North-Weft CIRCUIT.

Mull 1 n- MULLINGAR County Goal. Allowance 3 c/. a day in good household bread, CAK' (weight in 1787 three pounds and a half) with plenty of turf for fuel: and the countenances of the prisoners shewed that a humane and proper attention is paid to them.—£1100 was paid to the clergyman for bread, fire and candles for the prisoners, the three years preceding my first visit, and he made affidavits to his accounts. This was a shameful fraud, and it was detefted by Baron Hamilton. The prison is now supplied by Mr. Tyrrell, and he said that the account for the year 1787 would not exceed £90, though the number of prisoners was greater than usual. His account of the winter half year, from August 1786 to March 1787, amounted only to £46: 11: 5*.

The county is building a new gaol on a fine spot, and a stream runs through the court: yet I fear it is on too small a scale for solitary confinement at night; as the gaoler said, that the last assize he had forty-two criminals. And I have a much greater dislike to the confinement of two in a cell, than to the crowding of many into one room.

1787, July 10, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 24.

1788, April 24, - - 1. - - - 19.

County The County Infirmary at Mullingar is a house rented at £20 a year. The roof, Infir“ and the floor of one room were falling in. There are three rooms for the patients, and

mart.

in each four beds. No fuel — court not enclosed—pump useless — no vault. April 24th, 1788, 8 Patients.-)-

* A poor-house adjoins to the infirmary at Ennis, in which were twenty aged persons, who have an allowance of four-pence a day for diet, but no fuel. The house was not dirty — and they seemed to have an attentive and hone ft overseer.

ft IFilfon's Hospital in the county of Weft Meath is a spacious building, and finely situated. It was founded by a private gentleman for lodging, boarding and clothing one hundred boys and twenty old men. The house was dirty (especially the two infirmary rooms) and is never white-washed. The boys were clean, but their clothes and linen in rags. The old men were crowded into two rooms, and lay two in a bed — they were ihivering with cold, fuel not being allowed after March 25th. There were fifteen cows for the house, and a fine tract of land in the front— yet the boys and men were scantily supplied with milk, potatoes and greens. Having heard the boys of different standings read, I am persuaded they have an attentive school-master. His salary is 25 Guineas a year. — A resident clergyman is allowed .£150. The Reward’s salary is only 20 or ^30, but I saw by the annual account he was a creditor for .£1969 :15:7m one sum. April 25th, 1788, there were only sixty-nine boys and eighteen men. And though one hundred and three boys were petitioning fox admission, no board had fat these two years.

LONGFORD

Ulster N. W. Circuit.

1

RELAND.

95

LONGFORD County Gaol. A bad prison. Dungeons about four feet under ground: windows towards the street: passage dark, three feet five inches wide.

A prisoner, committed for only a month, was lately detained here several months for his fees, amounting to^i: io: 3. In this, and similar instances, the expense of the bread allowance to prisoners exceeds the amount of the fees. — A presentment has been made for building a new gaol. I found one of the finest spots for that purpose, on a declivity, near the river, clear of mod buildings, near the sessions house, and adjoining to the barracks. 1787, July 9, Debtors 8. Felons &c. 8.

1788, April 24, - - 12. - - - 20.

Longford County Infirmary is in the barrack yard. The wards were full of fmoke— beds crowded—bedding worn out—no water. The surgeon is paid the ,£100 per ann. from the king’s letter; the governors now buy the drugs in Dublin; and, though they have double the number of beds, the expense is not half so great as when they paid an apothecary. April 24th, 1788, 16 Patients.

CAVAN County Gaol, lately built.—No court, though a convenient area is contiguous.—Water from a well on the outside, into which I saw the rain-water run from the street. — The rooms very dirty and offensive; — never w'nite-washed. Prisoners double bolted. The bar-bolts are cruel; for they give more pain to the prisoners when lying or walking than iron chains.—Windows closed for fear of tools being conveyed. Here I cannot but remonstrate against the negligence of inspectors * and gaolers, and their idle excuses for the omission of washing prisons, on which the health of the prisoners so much depends. The gaoler lives at a distance; salary £20. But by a shameful neglect, neither his salary, nor the fees for acquitted prisoners have been paid him, for four or five years.

1787, July 11, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 36.

Cavan Town and County Bridewell. Only one room (eleven feet and a half by fix) — dirty, and no window. Keeper’s salary £5; and unpaid ever since 1783. July uth, 1787, No prisoners.

Cavan County I-Iojpital. All the rooms very dirty:—little or no bedding: — an upper room full of fowls: — a dunghil in the small front court. July nth, 1787, four men and three women. Surgeon, Mr. Freeman.

COUNTY of FERMANAGH. ENNISKILLEN County Gaol. -Allowance, a peck of meal (10 lb.) a week.—The prison down fix steps; the windows open to the street. j-

* If the magistrates should think themselves excused from visiting the gaols, by the late Act appointing inspectors, I am afraid that many of the gaols will continue in their present Hate.

t The local inspector, in his report relative to the subject of preventing prisoners from receiving spirituous liquors, properly observes: “ This is complied with as far as it is in the power of the inspector, but he cannot answer but that liquors may be conveyed by the windows, as they conlill of iron grates, and open to the freets.”

The

Longford.

County

Infirmary.

Cavan.

Countt

Bridewell

County

Hospital.

Enniski l-

LEN.

IRELAND.

Ulster N. w. Circuit.

96 IRELAND. Ulster N. w. Circuit.

EnNI file] lien. The dungeons, being paved with small stones, cannot be washed. A partial improvement is making, by enclosing two courts, and adding two or three rooms. 1787^ July 12, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 15.

Hospital. Enniskillen Hofptal for the County of Fermanagh. The house not built for that

Omagh. t purpose: —no repairs for twenty years:-—nor, as 1 was informed, has any governor been here these seven years:—no water: — no vault: — garden neglected: —no outer gates. July 12th, 1787, 10 patients. COUNTY of TYRONE. OMAGH County Gaol. The four dungeons for felons open into a passage fix feet wide; have all two doors, one iron-grated. These, with four rooms over them for debtors, were clean, and white-washed, and not offensive. No court;—no infirmary. The county intends to build a new gaol. Some of the gentlemen have fixed on the file of the ruinous county hospital for that puqiofe; but others, more judiciously, prefer a fine healthy spot, near the river, where the old castle flood. Here is an attentive inspector, and a good gaoler. Salary only £20, a year.* 1787, July 13, Debtors 16. Felons &c. 19.

Hospital. 1 Omagh Hospital for the County of Tyrone. An old ruinous house :— very dirty.— Patients lay on straw on the floors:—one of them a man eighty years of age.— No Iheets:--hardly a blanket to cover them. On application to the vice treasurer, he replied, “ They may find their own draw and blankets.” A very sickly boy had not his clothes taken off for a fortnight.-—Two lay in the bathing-tub; which was five feet

K. nine inches by three feet fix.— No water: — no vaults. Patients, eight men and four women. The felons in the gaol were better accommodated as to cleanliness and bedding, and their cells were less offensive.

Lifford. \ COUNTY OF DONEGAL. LIFFORD County Gaol. The five dungeons (or vaults, as they are properly called) are under the county hall, in a passage five feet wide,—windows towards the street,—one of them is quite dark. — No proper separation of the sexes. — Allowance, 10 lb. of oatmeal a week, f

' > 1 j J i )! * Some of the tinder Jberijfs in Ireland are guilty of a great abuse in taking zo or 30 guineas of the gaolers for their appointments, which lays them under the necessity of many exactions on prisoners. By the 3d of Geo. III. Chap, xxviii. “ No sheriff, or other person or persons, bodies corporate or politic, having powers “ to appoint a gaoler, shall, by themselves or any other person in trull for them, take any fee or gratuity, or “ reserve any rent payable out of any such gaol for such appointment, under the penalty of ^500; one moiety “ thereof to be paid to the king, the other to the informer, with full costs of suit.” f By the 27th of Geo. III. Chap, xxxix. it is enabled, t£ That it shall and may be lawful for the inspector of ft every gaol, bridewell, or house of correction in this kingdom, and he is hereby required, to procure and “ provide bread, meal, potatoes, or such other food as he shall judge most proper, to the value of not less than " three-pence per day for every prisoner, confined for any offence under his inspection; and to cause the fame <e to be regularly distributed among the said prisoners, twice in every week, to wit, on Sundays and Thursdays, “ in presence of the said inspector, and the gaoler or keeper of such prison.”

1 A

•t

The

Ulster N. E. Circuit.

IRELAND.

97

The county proposes to build a new gaol-, and some gentlemen have thought of a spot near the new hospital: but gaols should be near the county hall, if a good situation, so circumstanced, can be found, that prisoners chained, or hand-cuffed, may not be dragged through crowds to their trials.

1787, July 14, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 20.

Lifford Hospital for the County of Donegal. The present house dirty: — neverwhite-washed. — No sheets — no water--only one female servant. July 14th, 17-87, sixteen Patients. The old barracks are fitted up for a new hospital, in an airy situation, out of the town, and near the river.

The payment of £3: 8: 3 qualifies a person to vote as a governor. I am well informed, that the surgeon (Mr.Spence) spent^5oo, in procuring votes to ensure his election. The fame scandalous a'ouse, by which the lives and health of the poor are in a manner put up to auction, prevails, as is well known, in many of the London hospitals.

LONDONDERRY County and City Gaol. Six rooms over a gateway; — very dirty; — no court; — no water. Little attention to the separation of the sexes, or of debtors and felons. A new gaol is proposed to be built, which I doubt not will be effected, by the spirited exertions of Mr. Conolly, one of the county members.

1787, July i£, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 23.

Londonderry Hospital for the County of L. Derry. Two rooms in the poor-house. July i£th, 1787, thirteen Patients. Dr. Fergufon has the £100, from the king’s letter, but generously gives £$o towards the maintenance of the poor in this house, and pays for all the medicines.

ULSTER North-East CIRCUIT.

COUNTY of LOUTH. DUNDALK County Gaol. Water is conveyed into every cell, so that the sewers are not offensive. — A dunghil in the court as at Monaghan. f At the Lent Assize 1787, Judge Kelly discharged immediately from the Dock all the prisoners who were acquitted; and Sir S, Bradstreet always does the fame.

1787, July 21, Debtors 5. Felons &c. 8.

* I visited the poor-house at Londonderry. Here were sixty-five old, decayed inhabitants. All clean and orderly. They are allowed the profit of any little work they are able to do. Their provision is wholesome and good, which they receive cheerfully at two meals (ten and three). Mr. Young, a dissenting clergyman, con flan tly attends; and has been, for two years, the frugal and faithful treasurer.

Mr. Toting gives the fame assiduous attention to a Sunday school, which was here opened Dec. 5, 1785. About sixty boys regularly attend every Sunday, two hours in the morning, and two in the evening. There are three mailers. The whole expense for inflruftlon or schooling, books, firing See. to July 16, 1787, amounted only to f\"]: 18: o as I saw in Mr. Young’s books.

f On my observing that some of the rooms were dirty in this gaol, the keeper replied, “ We thought there would be no eyes over us till the assize.” I mention this as a hint to gentlemen who look into prisons only on public days.

Lifford.

Hospital.

Lo N DO H' DERRY.

Hospital.

Dundalk.

o

Dundalk

9S

IRELAND.

Ulster N. E. Circuit.

Dundalk

Hospital.

Dowk-

PATRICK.

Hospital.

Carrick-

FERGUS.

Town

Gaol.

Lisburn

Hospital.

Dundalk Hospital for the county of Louth. The rooms towards the street.— The patients lay in boxes, but had proper bedding and Iheets. — The bread good. A book is kept for noting down the provisions as they come in.* July 21ft, 1787, there were thirteen Patients.

COUNTY of DOWN. DOWNPATRICK County Gaol. No water. —The rooms paved with final] stones, and very dirty and offensive-.—windows towards the street. — An offensive vault in the passage. — The chapel and two courts not used for many years.

1787, July 22, Debtors 9. Felons &c. 26.

Downpatrick Hospital for the County of Down. Formerly a barrack-. — wants white-washing. July 22d, 1787, nine Men, fix Women. In a late annual account, the whole expense was £743: — for drugs £$2: 14: 2; apparently an enormous sum, when the general number of patients was only from twelve to eighteen. Surgery room dirty, and in great disorder. f

COUNTY of ANTRIM. CARRICKFERGUS County Gaol. A fine stream runs through the court; and pipes being laid into almost every room and cell, prevent this prison from being in the least offensive. Here is a large expensive and inconvenient tub for a bath, but never used. — Judge Robinson once fined the gaoler £20, for not taking off the irons of a prisoner before his trial. Mr. Campbell, the good old surgeon, never permits spirituous liquors (too often allowed through mistaken humanity) to be brought even to the debtors.

1787, July 26, Debtors 5. Felons &c. 21.

Town Gaol. No court: no water. This was the county gaol when I was here about ten years ago.

1787, July 26, 1 Prisoner.

Lisburn Hospital for the County of Antrim. The wards quiet and clean; but the house wants white-washing. Here is a kind and proper attention paid to the patients. Religious service is performed every Sunday, and the clergyman notes it down in a book.

* In the house-keeper’s book there are fix columns on every leaf: the first specifying the days of the week; second, number in the house; third, new milk; fourth, butter-milk; fifth, bread; sixth, oatmeal; and at the bottom, the weight of the sixpenny loaf, which at my visit was 3 !b. 5 ez.

f Dr. Blane, Physician to St. Thomas’s Hospital; in his Qbfernmtions on the Diseases incident to Seamen: (printed in 1785.) fays, “ If men are not conlirained to keep their persons sweet, their cloathing and bedding “ clean, and their berths (or apartments) airy and dry, the mojt efficacious remedies, and the niofi skilful physicians “ and surgeons will be to little purpose.” He relates in the account of the ftck sent from the fleet that arrived tc at New York in 1782, that each man on the ftck lift was supplied every week at the public expence with " four pounds of apples, and half a pound of soap. —That the supply of soap was a thing entirely nenv in the " service; but the good effefl of all the other articles would moll probably have been defeated, unless men had

been furnished with the means of cleanliness, which is the moil essential requisite of health.” page 145.

The

Ulster N. E. Circuit.

IRELAND.

99

The governors also, in their occasional visits write down their observations. July 2?tl>, Lisbura 1787, 5 Patients.* ' ' Hosp, TAL-

ARMAGH County Gaol. Built about six years since by the munificence of the Armagh. Lord Primate.-—Too small for the number of prisoners. —■ A kitchen and a large cell, being under ground and damp, are not used. — All the prisoners are allowed fuel, bedsteads and proper bedding. Gaoler’s salary, /To.-|-

1787, July 20, Debtors a. Felons 8tc. 18.

Armagh County Hofptal. Built by the Lord Primate in 1768. The surgeon resides Armagh in the hospital in very large apartments. The wards are spacious; but the patients lay Hospit al. in a fort of boxes or cupboards, which in several respects are improper; — they are close and ostensive — the beds cannot be so conveniently made—nor the bedding aired, — and the tops are a harbour for litter and dust. No baths; nor do I recollect any in use in other county hospitals, though very conducive to the health of patients. July 19th, 1787, seven Men and three Women.

MONAGHAN County Gaol. A court, and water. — In this, and almost all the Mo-Irish gaols, there is neither infirmary nor bath.—The window of the women’s room opening towards the street, several idle fellows were Handing at it. — A dunghil in the court; a nuisance which the local inspector should never permit.

1787, July 20, Debtors 13. Felons &c. 33.

Monaghan County Hospital. Built about twenty years ago on very elevated ground: Hospital. access to it should be made more easy:—never white-washed. July 20th, 1787, nine Patients. Regulations made in 1770, and a diet-table, hung up. I was glad to fee among the rules, “ No patient shall smoke tobacco in the infirmary.” Such a rule is pretty general in English hospitals.

COUNTY of MEATH. TRIM County Gaol. This prison consists of four Trim. stories, and has eighteen cells and three day rooms. The walls of the court are lofty.

Eleven criminals who were left untried at the last assize, having got off their bolt irons and confined the gaoler, had nearly effected their escape.

1788, April 25, Debtors 5. Felons &c. 25. J

* I visited the poor-house at Belfaji, which is finely situated, but many of the lodging-rooms are down ten steps, and a wall only ten feet dillant, is level with the top of the windows. Might not the spacious hall, and rooms adjoining be used for a better purpose than the occasional diversions of young persons in the town ? The front court is quite open. All such houses should be enclosed, to prevent the poor from wandering about, and carrying out or introducing any thing improper. July 24, 1787, 54 Men, 53 Women, 31 Boys, 21 Girls. The Belfast Charitable Society for the support of this house, was incorporated by an Act of the 14th of Geo. III.

t When the salaries of gaolers are so small, persons of credit will hardly accept of the trail; and others will be too ready to make cruel exactions from the prisoners. I here give this hint more willingly, because I know the great generosity of the Lord Primate; and that he is ready to encourage every thing that is liberal and humane.

{ The number of prisoners which I found in Ireland in 1787 and 1788, shall be given in a table at the end of the book.

J

o 2

The

IOO

IRELAND.

Ulster N. E. Circuit.

Nava n County InFJ R-M ARY.

The County Infirmary at Navan has an inscription over the door, cc I was Tick and you visited me. Matt. xxv. 36. 1754.” It is in a good situation — has five rooms for patients—wants white-walking-— the bedsteads old with tetters to them—the furniture dirty—the sheets brown, and only one on a bed-—no pump—-no proper bath.— Besides the preferments, there is an annual ball for the support of this house. April 25th, 1788, 24 Patients.*

It may not be improper to repeat here an observation which I made in my former publication, with respect to the English prisons &c. which I had then been visiting; viz. I have here and there taken the liberty of pointing out what seemed to me, as I viewed a prison or hospital, an obvious remedy of some defect drat happened to ttrike me. But I did not examine with the accuracy of a surveyor; and hope I shall not be thought to direttt in the ttyle of a dill at or,

* Doctor Ingen-boujk in his Experiences fur les Vegetaux, publiftied in 1787, has so well expressed my sentiments on this subject, that I hope I shall be excused copying this long note.

r‘ Nous voyons que la longue vie des hommes depend en grande partie de la bonte de l’air qu’ils respirent. t( Les meilleurs alimeiis ne font pas en etat de nous garanrir des maladies dans un pays malfain, au lieu qu’on f< peut fe porter tres-bien avec des alimens d’une qualite inferieure, lorsque l’on respire un air tres-pur.” —And with respect to the necessity of attention to clean line/}, some observations which the ingenious Doctor mentions relative to ships, are equally applicable to prisons and hospitals.—“ Un des grands moyens de “ conserver la fante des marins, eft de tenir l’interieur du vaifteau propre, d’y changer Pair souvent, “ soit par des ventilateurs, soit par Pagitation des portes de communication, soit par l’agitation de draps souvent “ repetee, Scc. J’ai souvent eprouve avec quelle facilite on peut renouveller tout Pair d’une chambre par la “ feule agitation de la porte, ou parle mouvement violent d’un drap, ou par quelque autre moyen qui force Pair “ de changer de place, & de fe meler avec Pair libre. Deux ou trois minutes fufHfent pour renouveller tout Pair i( d’un grand appartement, & pour donner a un malade quiy eft au lit, le soulagement le plus fenftble.—Toute " nation qui salt peu de cas de la proprete personnelle, & de celle de fes habitations, qui n’a aucune aversion de *' voir par-tout s’accumuler des faletes, dont on a foin d’ecarter jufqu’aux vestiges dans d’autres pays; qui “ s’accoutume desl’enfance a vivre au milieu des ordures; qui peut tolerer, meme dans l’interieur de fes maisons, •“ des cloaques le plus abominables de faletes, quiferoient horreur aux fauvagesles moins polices, & dont l’aspect " degoutant feroit capable de faire foulever l’eftomac aux peuples quin’ont jamais vu que la proprete la plus exadie “ dans ces endroits retires de neceflite *: toute nation, dis-je, qui ne cultive pas aftez la proprete personnelle & dans fes habitations, doit naturellement avoir peu d’aversion, etant lur mer, de vivre parmi les memes mal-te propretes avec lesquelles elle s’eft familiarifee des son enfance. Mais s’il paroit qu’il importe peu, pour la “ fante des habitans d’une maison, qu’elle soit sale ou nette, il eft neanmoins bien certain qu’on ne peut pas “ negliger impunement la proprete dans un navire, dans lequel une foule de gens eft entaflee. Cette negligence y produira bientot un air corrompu, qui, a son tour, engendrera le germe de cette terrible " maladie qu’on voit fe produire par le meme cause dans les hopitaux trop pleins & trop peu aeres, & dans “ les prisons, ou beau coup de miferables croupiftent dans leurs propres faletes.”—He adds, “ On a vu souvent “ des nations puiftantes, qui devoient naturellement triompher par la masse enorme de leurs forces de terre & “ de mer, fuccomber precifement par les effets de cette mal-proprete habituelle fur leurs flottes & dans leurs “ armees.”

* “ Le nom de garde-robe, confacre par un long usage a ces endroits, denote assez que la mal-proprete a ete de tout temps “ un vice, non du bas-peuple, mais de la nation meme: mal-proprete fi enracinee, que meme jufqu’a present, lorsque la plupart “ des nations europeenes rougiflentde fouffrir, dans I’enceinte de leur maison, ces cloaques revoltans & abominables, un etranger

fe trouve, au milieu de la capitale, dans le plus grand embarras, pour trouver, meme dans les bonnes maisons, un endroit ou il * puilfe, a son aise, satisfair? au besoin de la nature, & sauver fes vctemens de la crotte.

S E CTION

SlCT. VII.

IRELAND.

101

SECTION VII. CHARTER SCHOOLS IN IRELAND.

In' Ireland there are thirty-eight Charter Schools, designed for the instruction of the children of the popish and other poor natives in the English tongue, and the principles of loyalty and true religion; besides two called the Ranelagh Schools, which admit only the children of protestants.

In two journeys into Ireland, some years since, I looked into several of these schools, carrying with me the account of them published at the end of the last sermon that had been then preached to the society. I afterwards waited on the committee of fifteen in Dublin, and having reported various apparent abuses, lorne alterations were made. But I am fully persuaded that this noble charity still greatly wants a reformation, and a parliamentary inquiry for that purpose.

Some general observations on these schools were given in my publication in 1784; but having visited many of them in 1787, and made a report to the committee of the House of Commons in 1788; and afterwards, in an extensive tour, visited several more of these schools; I shall now give a particular account of them.

Clontarf-Strand School. June 7th, 1787, fifty-three boys — many were employed in spinning—feveral had cutaneous eruptions on their hands; but the old master having been discharged, they looked better, in general, than at my former visits. Allowance for diet for each boy is three-pence a day; and the master pays a halfpenny a day for the work of each boy. Linen scanty: children shifted only once a week. Salary to master and mistress £24 Irish; besides £30 for three maid-servants. At my visit in 1788 I saw a report of the local committee expressing that the boys’ shoes were in a “ terrible state; the “ dockings miserably bad, so that in one week they were worn out; their clothes made of “ the worst materials, and infamously tacked together.” March 10th, 1788, 66 Boys.

Santry Jchool. June 7, 1787, forty-two girls. — The house not white-washed, nor in repair. —The children healthy; and this then seemed to me one of the belt of the schools. Employment spinning. —Children’s linen changed once a week.—Half-year’s allowance for soap and candles £4:1:0. The master and mistress receive a salary of £12; but are required to pay for the work of three fourths of the children, twenty shillings a year each; and to the society, for thirty-three acres of land £37:4:0. Here also the master complained of the badness of the clothing. At my visits in 1788, the house was dirty, and at dinner I saw no attention to order and regularity. March 10th, 1788, 45 Girls; and the 28th of the fame month, 33 Girls.

Dublin

County.

The

102

IRELAND.

Sect. VII.

Charter

Schools.

Santry School.

Kilkenny

County.

Water-

ford

County.

The following is a copy of the report of the Rev. Mr. Grant, “ I must however again “ repeat, that the matter of Castlebar school appears to have been very inattentive to their “ education, to fend girls, most of whom are from fifteen to eighteen years of age from “ under his care, so very ill-informed in every branch of their education.” Several of these girls could not read. — Removals have been made in several of the schools that the boys and girls may be separate.

Kilkenny School. June 9, 1787, thirty-three boys.—Much cleaner than at my former visits: — rules and orders hung up. — In the infirmary no beds. — Salary to the matter £6, and mistress £6.* The servant’s wages and diet, only £5. Soap and candles £5. Fuel £7. The matter and mistress pay 15*. a year for the work of each child, but complain of losing by such a charge. Annual allowance for the clothing of each child was £1:5:0. Here is a good usher, at eight guineas a year. I found the following report in the book; “April 8, 1788, the boys being afflifled with a {potted fever occasions us not to meet at the school as usual.” My visit having been made a few days after the date of this report, I am persuaded that such caution was needless. April 14th, 1788, 33 Boys.

Killoteranschool. June 10, 1787, fifty-two boys.—The house and rooms perfectly clean; as also the children, though many in rags.J —Employment, spinning cotton and linen. —The matter and mistress here also complained of losing by the work, for which they pay as at Kilkenny school.—-No usher: — the mistress and her daughter were teaching the little children to read. —Salary to the matter and mistress £6 each. — Premium £8; for in this and other schools premiums or bounties are sometimes given as an encouragement to those who seem most attentive. Allowance only £20 a year for fuel, soap and candles, and £3: a: 6 for the diet of each child.

The society, for some years, because tire price of oatmeal exceeded eight {hillings an hundred, made a small addition to the allowance of this, and some other schools: but at a general quarterly meeting on Wednesday, August 3d, 1785, it was resolved that no such allowance should be continued. J

At

* In the Charter Schopls, the salary to the master End his wife is £6 a year each, besides allowance for diet, die fame as for a child. Where there is only a mistress, the salary is 732 a year with a like allowance.

N. B. In the accounts of allowance, the money mentioned always signifies Irish.

£1: 1: 8 Irish is only one pound English; 13 d. Irij}> equal to a shilling English.

4 It seems that the influence of cleanliness is extensive; for the cabins near this house were the cleanest and ncateft I ever saw in Ireland.

I This resolution was sent to the masters of all the charter fehools:

“ Resolved, that it be, and is hereby recommended to the General Board, to direst that in future no additional "■ expense shall be allowed to the masters or mistresses of any of the charter schools or nurseries, for any ,f supposed advanced price upon the provisions laid In by them, over and above their contract allowances.

“ Ordered that the said resolution be, and the fame is hereby, confirmed; and that the masters and mistresses “ be informed that the society expect that they will in future feed the children with good and wholesome food,

“ in

Sect. VII.

IRELAND.

103

Charter

Schools.

Killote-

RA N

School.

“ At the Annual General Meeting of the Incorporated Society, Sec. held on Wednesday, the f< 1 ft of November, 1769. The Right Reverend Lord Btjhop of Waterford, in the chair. Resolved, that “ the present Dietary be encreased from the 25 th of December next, as to all the articles of provisions, one (( fourth part, and be amended as follows;

A DIETARY FOR THE CHARTER SCHOOLS.

“ One pound and a quarter of oatmeal, or one pound and a quarter of wheat meal, or such a quantity of “ potatoes as the local committees shall think proper (when the mailer can be supplied with potatoes from his ,f own plantation, or can provide them on as good terms as he can be furnished with corn) with one quart and “ half a pint of milk or beer each day, is judged sufficient for the children one with another; to this mull be *f added, ten ounces of flesh meat on each Sunday, and as much on some other day of the week, to be fixed by * the local committees, when meat does not exceed two-pence by the pound, and when it exceeds that price, on “ Sundays only. It is not expected that the mailers should give the children a quart and half pint of new “ milk every day, but one part new milk, and two parts butter milk, or an equal quantity of new milk and water will answer for drink. These foods are to be given alternately to the children when they can be “ had reasonably, and varied every meal, or every day or every week, as the local committees shall find cheapell, “ and moll for the convenience of the mailer. And then the allowance for each child one with another, as to “ the quantity of provisions weekly, wall be as follows;

Eight pounds and three quarters of wheat or oatmeal.

Eight quarts and three half pints of milk or beer.

One pound and a quarter or twenty ounces of flesh meat.

“ When the price of wheat or oatmeal grows high, then the children are to be entirely fed upon which ever of (t them is cheapell, and as the society never refuse to advance money to the mailers on the representation of the * local committees, when provisions may be had cheap, it is expetted that the mailers will endeavour to keep “ down the price of provisions. Resolved, that such allowance as is directed by the dietary, for each child, <c be made for each and every of the following persons, when they are appointed by the society to be kept in each of the schools, (that is to say) mailer, millrefs, and ulher, over and above their respective salaries.' “ Resolved, that the present allowance for cloathing of each child, be encreased from twenty shillings yearly (t to twenty-five shillings. Ordered, that the local committees of the schools, when they fend up the-“ quarterly accounts of the mailers, be requelled to set forth regularly in that account, the price of each of the articles of provisions, mentioned in the above dietary. Ordered, that these resolutions, dietary, and *c orders, be printed, and sent down to each of the schools, and that each mailer do poll up the fame in the moll * public place of each school. N. B. The above not to extend to any of the society’s nurseries,

ct Signed by order, Thomas Gibbons, Secretary.”

deserves

At both my visits in 1788 I found this Jchool perfectly dean. The children were neat, and seemed cheerful and happy. (In many of the schools the children run away, or are stolen by their parentsj but for several years, not one has deserted from this school). Their learning was not neglected by the mailer j and his daughter's attention well

xt in quantity and quality agreeably to the Society’s established dietary, without making any demand as hereto-“ fore, for any advance price upon the provisions, above the contract allowance; and that if any mailer or (t millrefs will not abide by this determination, such are directed to give notice to the secretary, and the society (t will immediately fend down mailers and miftrelTes to succeed them.

ft Signed by Order,

« THOs. GIBBONS SscJ.” The Diet-Table was fixed as follows;

IRELAND.

Sect. VII.

I Oa

K.ILLOTE-R AN

School.

Tipperary Cou NTY.

Cork

County.

deserves the salary of a teacher, which is allowed at several schools.—-Only one maid; salary £2. Allowance for diet now T,d. a day.* Where the schools are conveniently situated for bathing, as this is, some accommodations should be made for that falulary practice. f May 5th and 16th, 1788, 51 Boys.

Clonmel School. June 12th, 1787, twenty-nine boys. — House dirty:—wanted beds and bedding. — In the infirmary only two bedsteads, and a little dirty draw and lumber.— Pantry empty: — children half starved and almost naked. — Usher no allowance; — the matter said, he paid one, as he was too old to teach.—Allowance for soap and candles only £5. On application to the local committee for allowance for necessaries, the answer was, “ the society is poor; they cannot afford it.” The last report in the book was June ift, 1785. At my last visit I found this school in much better order: —the bed rooms were clean. — By hearing several of the boys read, I was convinced that proper attention is now paid to that important part of their education.-—The society’s clothes are so very bad, that if the boys be not clothed again before Christmas, they mutt be almost naked. May 5th, 1788, 27 Boys.

hnjcara School. Situated two miles from the church.— June 18th, 1787, twenty-six girls: fifteen boys. — The house out of repair, very dirty and full of fleas; — many dogs; some on the beds.— The infirmary was the fuel house, and had no door. —Dairy empty:-—the children dirty: seemed half-starved. At my visit, after three o’clock.

* I here give an extract from the letter received by the mailer.

" At a general meeting of the Incorporated Society Sic. 25th April 1788.

*' Resolved, that the allowance for feeding the several persons in the charter schools be encreased to three-" pence a day for each person; said encreased allowance to take place from the 15th of May next.” In this letter a fort of dietary was ordered, and the hours of meals fixed.

From 25th of March to 2C)th of September. From 29th of September to 25th of March.

Breakfast half pall eight. Breakfall half pad nine.

Dinner one. Dinner two.

Supper seven. Supper Seven.”

I could with that children were always accustomed to early hours. Brcakfajl, in the summer half year, should not be later than half pail seven, nor in winter than eight: the hour of dinner even in winter should be one; and for flipper fix. By the present allowance, if the mailers do julbice to the children, they will now be properly fed.

f Dr. Lind in his ninth section on the Preservatives of Health on board ships fays, “ That by cold bathing << warm weather the body is cooled and refrelhed, the fibres braced and invigorated, so that the men become << afterwards better enabled to undergo the fatigues and heat of the day. This would prove not only an excel-« lent means of health, but of cleanliness; by cleansing the Ikin, and invigorating the whole habit, it is so far “ from (lopping the perlpiration in hot weather, that it promotes it.

<< I can affirm, from my own experience in hot climates, that faxes and many other complaints have not only “ been cured by cold bathing, but the return, and even the attack, of such diseases, effectually prevented by it.” He adds, “ I am persuaded that the remarkable healthfulness of the Tyger ship of war, was more owing " to the nfe of the cold bath, than to any other circumstance. ”

the

t

Sect. VII.

IRELAND.

the children had received no dinner, nor was there any preparation for it till after my inquiries. — Many had the itch and other cutaneous disorders.--Water too distant.— Soap and candles only £4 a year: fuel £10. Here, and in several other schools, the master’s children were clean, fresh and healthy.—Linen wanted: application was made for sheets two years since, but none sent.—-Dr. Austin, in one of his reports fays, “ the pottage is very thin and indifferent:” in another j “the meat scanty, not exceeding three ounces to each child.” (Though, being Sunday, it should, according to the diet table, have been ten ounces). It seems from the book, that none of the Ideal committee had visited this house since August 1785. In 1788 1 found this school in much better order, and the rooms cleaner than in 1787. May 10th, 1788, 25 Girls, 15 Boys.

Charleville School. June 20th, 1787, twenty-six girls: one boy. The mistress

lately appointed— the children neat and clean.: the rooms close: allowance for soap and candles £5 a year: fuel £10. —No vault: no servant. — Rent for the

Society’s land raised at Michaelmas 1786 from £8 to £15. — Salary to mistress £12. April nth, 1788, 26 Girls.

Newport School. June 23d, 1787, forty girls and two boys. Several of the schools are now appropriated to one sex separately, in which formerly boys and girls were mixed. The house not dirty: the children neat. Annual allowance for soap and candles only £4: for glazing windows five {hillings. Sheeting wanted: in October 1785, twenty pair reported; only ten sent.---ln this and several other schools complaints are made that there is no allowance for new spinning wheels, or repairing the old ones. One of the boys is an idiot, lame and blind, f 1 need not repeat the allowance for the diet and clothing of the children, and the pay for their work, as they are the fame in almost all the schools.

Frankfort School. June 23d, 1787, forty-six girls: four boys. The house, school-

room, and store-room, very offensive__________Fowls, ducks and pigs in the kitchen.—

Children dirty and sickly. —The mistress old and infirm: —all things out of order.— The boys lay in the room called the infirmary, in which were turkeys and fowls; and

* The miilrefs was appointed in consequence of this report of the local committee: t( Dec. 7th, 1786.

Whatever occasion of complaint we have had for some years pad relative to the said school, has been solely

owing to die mailer, who had fallen into a habit of drinking, of which our remonilrance could not break * him, of which we before took notice to the Society in some of our reports. The situation of the miilrefs is

very much diitrefled: and as the school is now to coniid of girls, a tenderness for her, in her present fituadon, ft induces us to recommend her.”

f In this school I saw a report of Mr. Archdeacon Wight, Sept. 16th, 1781: “ Their beds scandalouily dirty, the bed clothes ruinous, torn and filthy, and the children seem much neglected And afterwards he adds: *f I made a report some time ago to the Committee of Fifteen, much to the fame purpose of this, and now find no great alteration for the better.”

P it

105

Charter

Schools,

Iniscar a School.

Cork

County.

Tip-

perary

County.

King’s

County.

Sect. VII.

it seemed not to have been cleaned for six months. Linen much wanted. — Allowance, for soap and candles only £4: fuel £8: mistress £12: usher £6: maid-servant

£$■ — Meat was retailing for the mistress’s dinner at five in the afternoon. Such late hours kept by the mailer and mistress in the evening, mull produce late morning hours to the children.

Longford School. July 9th, 1787, forty-one boys. The house ruinous: the walls very dirty: linen much wanted: the kitchen and infirmary often overflowed in winter.—The mailer allows for the children’s work but fays he has nothing for them to do.* —Twelve boys lately came hither from Castlecarbery school, half llarved and almost naked: one of them an ideot.

At my lait visit the house was repaired, and the school in order. April 24th, 1788, 44 Boys, f

Ballykelly School. July 16th, 1787, twenty-eight boys; seven girls. Bedding much wanted: no coverlids.-—The committee of fifteen now clothe the children of all the schools. Here I first saw the clothing: for boys, a brown cloth coat and waistcoat with yellow trimming, two pair of linen breeches, two Hurts, three pair of (lockings, three pair of shoes for girls, cloth jacket and petticoat, two shifts, two aprons, two caps, two pair of (lockings, two pair of pumps, but no hats nor handkerchiefs. J Allowance for soap and candles £4: 10: o —fuel £6. — Here the rent of the land has been raised. On the 29th of June 1787, the mailer received an account of the increased allowance, and alteration in the dietary mentioned below.

Ray

* In a report of the local committee are these words, “ We find the children in general too small to make " their labour of any value, a Hop having been put to the old work of the boys, spinning, as it was found “ prejudicial to their health. — May 30th, 1787.”

f A boy who was lately put apprentice was found here, returning to his parents; and in my tours I have seen others who had left their makers; some of whom said, their makers were gone off to England. Would it not be better for the Society to put out none to apprenticeships under thirteen years of age, and to give an apprentice fee of £$ ? Then they might procure makers for them among creditable tradesmen. Should not also the local committee be desired to make their report once a year of the behaviour of the apprentices, and their makers, and to prosecute such makers as abuse their apprentices, or turn them off without sufficient reason

t Report at a meeting of the local committee. “ 29th of June 1787. The clothes that have been sent down “ are of a very bad quality, and made quite too small; particularly, the waikcoats for the large boys don’t “ cover half the children’s bellies, and of course, will not wear half the time they otherwise would.”

|| Copy of the letter received by Mr. Archibald Campbell, maker of the Ballykelly school, 29th of June, 1787. “ At a general meeting of the incorporated society &c. held on Wednesday the 16th of May 1787, the “ Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of Raphoe in the chair.

" Schools ingeneral.—Resolved, that the allowance to the makers for feeding the several personsinthe charter “ schools be increased to two-pence halfpenny per day for each person; said increased allowance to commence “ from the 25th of March lak.

“ At a general meeting of the incorporated Society &c. held on Wednesday the 30th of May 1787. His " Grace the Lord Archbishop of Cashell in the chair.

Dietary.

Sect. VII.

IRELAND.

107

Ray School. July 17th, 1787, twenty-one boys; thirteen girls. Kitchen small and dirty.—Only seven beds for boys and seven for girls.—The children here as in many other schools without shoes and stockings: tolerably healthy.—A letter similar to that below respecting the alteration in the dietary, was received here the 1 ft of July.

The advance of the rent of the Society’s land occasions a general discontent. On this subject I shall copy, in a note, the reports of the local committee, and that of the committee of fifteen.

Charter

Schools.

Donnecai.

OOUNTV.

“ Dietary. The society pursuant to the committee of fifteen’s resolution of the 23d infiant, referred to them, '* this day took into consideration the report of the select committee appointed to consider of the hate of the " dietary of children in the charter schools; the fame being now read and maturely considered;

* Resolved, that the firh paragraph in the present dietary be amended as follows, viz. that one pound and * a quarter of oatmeal, or one and a quarter of wheat meal, or an equivalent of potatoes being 4\lb. with one fe quart and half a pint of milk or beer each day, is judged sufficient for the children one with another; to this et must be added 10 oz. of flesh meat on each Sunday, and as much on some other day of the week to be fixed by “ the local committee, when meat does not exceed two-pence by the pound; and when it exceeds that price, on *f Sundays only, and on succeeding days broth thickened with oatmeal, and wholesome vegetables Ihredded “ small.

“ Resolved, that the second paragraph of the dietary be amended by hriking out the following words, or an “ equal quantity of new milk and water.”

By order, for Mr. Thomas Gibbons, Sec.

Geo. Gordon.

* “ At a meeting of the local committee of the charter school at Ray the ik of Feb. 1786, being duly and

* timely warned by the mailer for that purpose.—We are of opinion that the value of land here is a guinea tc per acre.” (Signed by four clergymen.)

* At a meeting of the local committee 25 th July 1786, being duly and timely warned by the mailer for that * purpose. (Signed by three gentlemen Mr. Rea, Mr, Boyd, Mr. Mac Cujland). Though upon the Iah report “ of the local committee, lands in this neighbourhood were valued at a guinea per acre, yet upon inspecting the “ school lands very minutely, we do not apprehend they are worth, to a farmer, more than ijr, per acre, and “ we are of opinion the mailer ought to have them cheaper.

At a meeting &c. 27th of September 1786 being duly and timely warned.

“ We requeh the committee will order the children’s yearly clothing as soon as possible, as they are in great “ need of them. We think that the intention of the committee to raise the maker’s rent to sixteen pounds yearly “ is oppressive, and more than lie can pay; however he is willing to submit the rent to the determination of “ two farmers, who shall on oath declare what the land is worth. We inclose the doflor’s bill, which we re-

quell may for this time be paid. Should the committee think his charges too high, they may discontinue him.

*{ July 6th, 1787, being duly and timely warned. — (Signed by four clergymen and one gentleman). We “ think that the charter school farm, which we have this day carefully examined, is too dear at sixteen shillings “ per acre, nor ought it to be set for more than twelve shillings to the maker of the school; as he cannot make (t any permanent improvements on it, on account of the uncertainty of his term.” — The land was raised from £6 to £16.—“ At a committee of fifteen of the Incorporated Society See. held on Wednesday the mh of * October 1786, James Ford, Esq. in the chair.

“ Ray School report of the 27th,

“ That the maker be informed. This committee consider their order of the 26th of April lak, for raising the " rent of the lands, by no means opprefilve, and therefore cannot recede therefrom.

“ By Order, Thomas Gibbons/* P 2 Dundalk

IRELAND.

Sect. VII.

108

Charter. Schools. Dundalk School. July 21 ft, 1787, forty girls. The house clean, but the children seemed by their countenances to be scantily fed: pantry empty.—Allowance now two-pence

Louth County. halfpenny a day.—Linen wanted: no towels: no table cloths: only one Iheet on a bed. Here, and at a few other schools, there is no land.

Down County. Strangford School. July 23d, 1787, twenty boys. Children healthy: here they have the advantage of frequently bathing in the sea. — Salary to matter and mistress £12: maid-servant ^5: soap * and candles £5: coals ^14. The infirmary is used as a {table.

Mayo County. Castlebar School is situated on a fine eminence just out of the town. No pump: no vault. Sept. 12th, 1787, the matter received from the Dublin nursery five girls, and from that of Monattereven nine, teveral of them without shoes or stockings. At my visit March 31ft, 1788 there were twenty girls, and the number had not been greater for a year past; though in the account which the society last published, the number on the 29th of Sept. 1787 is stated forty-one.—Thefe children were puny, sickly objects, almost naked; seven had feald heads, and almost all the itch. With these dif-orders they came; and having no clothes but such as were in rags, the apothecary was afraid to give them physic. The matter said they could not earn him a halfpenny. They had never been at church since they came. The following is an extract from a letter sent to the society in Dublin, signed by fix gentlemen of the local committee and the surgeon — “ 2d of Nov. 1787. The clothes of the 12th of June are of so bad “ a quality that the children who have been here since Nov. 1786 are now naked, and “ unable to attend the church. A set of lheeting is much wanted.” No answer to this was received from the society at Dublin till the Friday before my visit, and then only a printed receipt for the cure of feald heads. — In the society’s accounts, published for several years, it is said, “ This school was endowed by Lord Lucan with two acres, “ plantation measure, rent free in perpetuity; and a lease of twenty acres more, like “ measure, for three lives, at a pepper-corn yearly.” On reading this to the matter, he said, he never heard of more than about eight acres, which were in his possession.

Ball1n-ROB E School. Ballinrobe School. March 31ft, 1788, twenty-five boys. Fourteen of these came from the nursery at Monaftereven, and eight from that of Dublin, in a sickly state. — Most of them were eight years old, yet did not know a letter: now they are fine healthy boys, and great attention is paid to them by the Rev. Mr. Viridite the visitor. — The boys having no place for their diversions except the spot of ground before the door, and the house adjoining being a popith chapel, this spot, and also the garden, should be enclosed by a wall. The children in these schools are continually associating with the matter’s labourers and others in the kitchen; and therefore it seems that litde benefit can be derived

* I have in these remarks seldom omitted to mention the allowance for soap, that necessary article of clean-liness, because it is too small in these schools; and this is an inducement to preserve the urine for walking the children’s linen, which is one cause of cutaneous disorders. from

Sect. VII.

IRELAND.

from them in those counties where all the neighbours are Roman-Catholics. Allowance, for soap and candles only £3: fuel S'■ for mending windows Jr. —No water: no vault.

Galway School. April ift, 1788, twenty-two boys; one an idiot. — All had fboes and stockings; but in general they did not look healthy, which might be owing to their late recovery from the mealies.—-Allowance for soap, candles and turf, only £14 a year.—-No towels. — The house in good repair, but wanted white-washing. This is a good situation for a bath.

Loughrea School. April 3d, 1788, forty girls. These dirty, sickly objects, without shoes and stockings, were spinning and knitting in a cold room paved with pebbles. The ulher flood (as at some other schools) with a rod in his hand, to fee the children work; but there was not a book to be seen. There were only sixteen beds — sheets much wanted—the infirmary, a potatoe house. —The children were sadly neglected by their drunken mistress. But I observed that her own children, by the fire fide, were fresh and clean.

To this school, where there are only girls, there belongs much arable land. Here, at Castlebar, and at some other schools, the farm-yards are close to the back doors, and so dirty that one can hardly stir out.

Newmarket School, April 4th, 1788, eighteen girls and fourteen boys. The rooms clean—white linen on the beds—the children clean, and free from disorders. The master does not live in the school-house.

Shannon Grove School, April 5th, 1788, eighty-seven children. Here as at Newmarket, Castle Martyr, Castle Island, Sligo, and some other schools, boys and girls are intermixed, which on many accounts is improper. The house was badly built, and is so much out of repair that part of it must be taken down, f The bed rooms were clean: the children dirty; but seemed to be properly fed. The boys were spinning, an employment which can be of little advantage to them when they are grown up; and the confinement within doors, with the waste of saliva by moistening the flax, make it unhealthy, and give them a pale or fallow complexion. The church is about two miles distant.—Flere, and at several other schools, I found some leaves of the visitors’ book torn out.

* At Galway and Emits I visited the schools of Erafnus Smith's foundation, which are well conducted, and provided with able mailers. With the worthy mailer of the former, the Rev. Mr. Campbell, I had much conversation relative to a more general and liberal mode of education in that country. Mr. Campbell tedified the readiness of many of the catholics to fend their children to protellant schools; and he is of opinion that many would by these means be brought over, were the mod promidng of them enabled, by moderate aids, to pursue their further education in the university. It might also be adviseable to remove from the charter schools some of the mod improved children to these schools, or such provincial ones as might be established.

IO9

Ballinrobe School.

G A L W A V

County.

Loughrea

School.

Clare

County.

Limerick

County.

f The school-houses in general are good drong buildings, on a proper plan, and well adapted to the purpose.

Castle

11©

IRELAND.

Sect. VII.

Charter.

Schools.

Kerry

County.

Limerick

County.

Tip-

perary

County.

Kildare

County.

Queen’s

County.

Castle Istand School; April 8th, 1788, eleven girls and ten boys. The rooms clean: the children not dirty, but kept too dole to work, and scantily fed. — Formerly their learning was neglected, but now they have a careful visitor.

About three acres of the land belonging to this school was taken away in the time of the late mailer, as he informed the present mailer: of this the society has not yet taken any notice. — In the poltscript of a letter to the mailer, 25th of July 1787 are these words, “ Do not draw at less than thirty-one days fight.” But the mailer told me he could readily have got the money for the bills at a shorter date.*

Kilfimne School. April 10th, 1788, nineteen girls, all neat and clean, spinning and few-ing.—The millrefs was allowed for the clothing of each £1:5:0. They had shoes and dockings, brown Huff gowns with yellow sleeves, white caps and bibs, and check aprons. This is the bell charter school for girls that I have seen. The house is inconvenient____No vault, j-

Cashett School. April 12th, 1788, forty boys. The bed rooms offensive: clay floors. The kitchen, in which the children dine and sup, is dark, and has a floor of dirt. Allowance only for one maid: no usher.—The children neat, but the mailer jullly complained of the shoes and dockings, and that the shirts were too small; the clothes poor and flight, and the breeches too short.

Castledermot School. April 15th, 1788, twenty-seven boys. The report of the local committee on the 14th of April 1788 (the day immediately preceding my visit) was, that “ the children are all well, except one sick of the ague, and the house clean :” but 1 observed that some had feald heads; and the midrefs acknowledged that eight of them had that disorder. The rooms were dirty. On each of the eight beds there was only one sheet, and on the other beddeads hardly any bedding. The house out of repair—the walls very dirty—the children sadly negledled—the master only seventeen or eighteen years of age.- No diet table; nor had the midrefs, as Ihe told me, ever heard of any. She enjoys an annuity of £10 a year, from an estate left to the incorporated society by John Rogerjon Esq. of Bettifield.

Stradbally School. April 15th, 1788, forty-nine fine healthy boys. The bed rooms clean, and furnished with sheets and proper bedding: but no usher, and only one maid-servant. — Allowance for soap and candles £5; and only $s. a year for mending the windows of this large house.

* 1 shall here beg leave to put two or three queries to the trustees of Erafmui Smith's charity schools, relative to this county, i. Is not a sum of money allowed by them for a school in the ille of Valentia, in the county of Kerry? 2. How is it applied? 3. Is not a blacksmith the nominal mailer? 4. Is not the late Mr. Fitzgerald's house the school-house ? 5. Is not the salary continued to his executors for the use of his children

f 1 visited a small girls’ school of Lady Kingjboreugb's at Mitchells Town, where the house and children were sweet and clean. The girls were neatly clothed in brown camlet gowns. They shewed, both by their reading and their work, that great attention is paid to them. It is probable that the millrefs at Kilfinane has seen this school, and I wilh it were regarded in some respefls as a model for other charter schools.

I found

Sect. VII.

IRELAND.

r 11

I found this in 1782 one of the best schools for boys. The worthy clergyman Mr. Fofter is still afiiduous in his attention to them. Formerly the boys were well clothed by the master \ but at the time of my visit, he had just received an inferior fort of clothes from the society. These clothes should have been sent on the 20th of January. On the 3d of April, no clothes having arrived, thirteen gentlemen of the local committee resigned their trust, in a letter sent by Lord Roden to the committee of fifteen.

Sligo School. April 20th, 1788, twenty-four boys and thirteen girls. The house finely situated;—but it seemed to me that the children are not properly fed, and that there is too little attention given to their morals and behaviour. Here were only three cows: the home close was ploughed, and part of the garden sown with wheat. The late Adam Ormjby Esq. bequeathed £35 -per annum for ever, towards the support of this school, out of his estates j but for several years no payment has been made.

Farr a School. April 25 th, 1788, twenty-five boys. The house, bed rooms, and children very dirty *. their clothes in rags: water too distant; their countenances shew their sickly state.*—Many of them so young that the charge for their labour is a heavy burden on the master, and furnishes him with an excuse for pinching them in their diet.

Ardbraccan School.\ April 25th, 1788, forty-three boys crowded into one room

which is too small. The house also is too small for the number which, in the printed

* I am persuaded, if the inspectors took proper care that attention should be paid to cleanliness, that the beds should not be crowded, and that the sick should be lent to the infirmary room, the children would be much more healthy, and there would be little occasion for medicines.

f When I visited this school in 1782, and compared its state with the society’s account of their schools published in 1781, the master informed me, that his school had greatly suffered by an exchange of part of his land for the convenience of the reftor. I viewed the ground, and was then fully persuaded of the injury done to the charity. In 1788 I carefully reviewed those parts of the land which had been exchanged, and am confirmed in my opinion, that neither to accommodate the restor, nor to oblige the bishop of Meath, that unjujl, and (if tire society’s account of their title to the land published in 1781 were truly ftatedl) illegal exchange should have been made by the incorporated society. The land taken from the society being contiguous to their other fields, had been enclosed, by the late master; and it was near three acres (Irijk) more than that which they received in exchange.

t No, I, ARDBRACCAN, County 07 MEATH.

“ This school, wherein are fifty children, was endowed by the Right Rev. Dr, Maule, former Lord Bishop of Meath, deceased, with two acres of land, plantation measure, rent-free in perpetuity, belonging to the See, on part whereof the school-house is built: His Lordship also granted to the society a lease of eighteen acres more, contiguous to the fame, at 5:. per acre per annum, for which he took no rent during his incumbency, and always renewed without fine, and his Lordship gave £20 and collected £246 17:6 towards the building.”

“ The Right Reverend and Honourable Dr, Henry Maxwell, Lord Bishop of Meath, upon the society’s application for further “ aid, had been pleased to propose either to grant a renewal of the present lease, without fine, or to grant a new lease upon “ such terms as his Lordship is empowered to do by a clause in the act of parliament, paired in the eighth year of his present Majesty’s reign, for licensing hawkers and pedlars, and for the encouragement of English protestant schools, which latter “ proposal the society did agree mod thankfully to accept. And his Lordship has in consequence, granted a lease for lives “ renewable for ever, of said lands to the society, N, B, The master pays the society 12 1, per acre for the lands.”

Charter

Schools.

Strad-

B A LL Y School.

Sligo

County.

West

MEATH

County.

Meath

County,

account

IRELAND.

Sect. Vi I.

1 I 2

Ardiric- account, it is find to be capable of containing. Neither the house, bedding, nor children

CAN clean: four or five lay sick on the floor in the school room.—No diet table, nor did tire School.

mailer know of any.—No infirmary.

Meath Trim School. April 2jth, 1788, thirty-nine girls. The house was clean, and the County, children in health, but badly clothed. — The bread very bad. — A pump of fine water.— No infirmary. ---Extract from a report in the book; “ 7th October 1786. This school “ has been in a melancholy situation these three months past, which in all probability “ might not have gone farther than the first child which was took ill, were there a " detached room from the school for such children, which the committee most earnestly “ recommend to the society to build, as it might be done at a very small expence.” The answer to this recommendation was; “ 15th Nov. 1786, the local committee be “ informed, that this committee cannot agree to the building of an infirmary at the " school, as the funds of the society are exceedingly straitened, and require every species “ of ceconomy.”*

Kildare

County.

Ma ynooth School.

Wicklow Cou N TY.

Castle Carbery School. April 26th, 1788, thirty-seven girls. Many of them were making lace (See note in p. 75). The walls of the rooms very dirty — children not clean —feveral had fore heads —no infirmary. The bad state of this school might in a great measure be owing to the matter who was lately dismissed, for I was informed, that half the children were then almost naked. — There having been many removals of matters lately made, the sickly appearance of the children which I observed in some schools, did not always proceed from the neglect or inattention of the matters or mistresses who had the management of the schools at the time I visited them.

Maynooth School. April 26th, 1788, thirty-five fine healthy boys. The house, bed rooms, and bedding perfectly clean. Ten or twelve boys were at work in the garden, which contains about three acres (Irish), and is kept in the nicest order by the matter and his boys.f Allowance for diet 3d. a day. No infirmary; which is less necessary where boys are thus employed.

Arklow School. May 2d, 1788, forty-nine girls. They seemed to be properly fed; but little attention is paid to cleanliness: several had feald heads. — Allowance for soap and candles only £5. — The society’s clothes were in rags. Extract from the

* If the society’s funds are too low for the proper support of all the schools, would it not be better that some were suppressed ? And if the suppression of any be necessary, they flhould be those which are attended with the moftinconveniences— such as the inconveniences attending a house out of repair, and a bad supply of water; and those arising from situations too remote from the capital, and a church, or where the neighbours are all Roman-Catholics, and there is little probability of a proper inspection. I will add that if any should be supprelfed, the children might be sent to some of the bed schools where the numbers are deficient.

f The boys in all the schools should be taught to plant, fow, rear trees &c. proper utensils for this purpose should be provided for them by the society, and a part of every garden should be set apart as a nursery for their instruction,

report

Sect. VII.

IRELAND.

report of Sir Francis Hutchinjon, one of the committee of fifteen. “ I fee that at leall “ half of die gowns are so small as not to be sufficient to protest the girls from cold, “ and some of them have be£n torn in endeavouring to make them cover their shoulders “ or breads. 1 fee that about sixteen, that is half of them, have the itch, and some “of these have it to a very considerable degree. 29th August 1787. F. Hutchinjon.” The contract for clothing is still continued with the same person.- —The infirmary is used for a pig fty: no vault. I am sorry to find no report of this last defect in any even of the girls’ schools.

New Rojs School. May 3d, 1788, twenty-six boys, and eleven girls. Some of the children wore the society’s clothes, which were bad in every respect: the others wore the mailer’s, made of good warm cotton, spun in the house.—Here was plenty of provisions, and the children were properly fed; and by hearing some of different Handings read, I found that greater attention is paid to their learning than in moll of the schools. A girl, who had her education and served an apprenticeship in this house, is now teacher; but has no emolument from the society. The mistress told me, she had lately received fix very sickly boys from Dublin.

Innijhannon School. May 8th, 1788, thirty-three boys; one an idiot. The house out of repair: the children very dirty, and their clothes in rags. Several had the itch, and some, feald heads. Allowance for soap and candles £4: fuel £15. The instruction of the children is much neglected, though the school is provided with an usher. ' By order of the local committee, the children had not been at church for several months, f

On the 8th of May, I found the following report made but two days before by a physician who was one of the local committee. “All the boys now healthy.” On seeing him, I expressed to him my surprise at such a report, and shewed him the date of several of the children. His reply was, “ We do not call the itch and feald head, sickness.” J This committee has recommended the mailer of the school to a premium. If there were here a just attention to cleanliness, the committee would not probably be obliged by a fever in the school to meet, as they did lately, for the purpose of making a report, at a private house.

Dunmanway School. May 9th, 1788, thirty-nine boys, and three girls. The house out of repair: the infirmary a ruinous loft: no pump. Allowance, £4 a year for a man and horse to fetch water—Soap only £1: fuel £10. The children were objects of

* I generally asked the mailer or mistress, if the children’s work paid the society’s charge ? Every one said, I lose greatly by the work. The society now neither find new spinning wheels, nor pay for mending the old ones.

+ It was owing to the shameful contrail made by the committee of fifteen at Dublin, that they were without shoes and stockings% for many of the ihoes (which I saw) were so small as to be quite useless, and the (lockings broke into holes on the first day’s wearing.

X That this opinion concerning the feald head is not general, will appear in a report under the account of the Connaught nursery, where children are Hated to have died of it.

Q_ compassion,

Oil A RT V K Schools.

Ark low School.

Wexfoku

County.

Cork

County.

Dunman-

way

School.

IRELAND.

Sect. VII.

114

Charter

Schools.

Dunman-

WAY

School.

companion, dirty and sickly; all without shoes and stockings; many of the boys without breeches; some almost naked. In one of the bed rooms there were nine beds, in the other only three, and all very dirty.* The matter excused himself from going with me into the bed rooms, by saying that he was afraid of catching a disorder; the mistress also had her fears; though the rooms were empty, having only one child in them who happened then to be ill of an ague. The humane and faithful committee lately reported, that “ the children are healthy, and taken proper care of, and we recommend the matter and “ mistress as deserving the society’s bounty.” Here, and at most of the schools, the matters are ordered to draw for their money at twenty-one, thirty-one, and sometimes forty-one days fight, which is inconvenient to them though they charge the discount. In one of the bills which I saw, this charge was £1: 1 :74 besides 10s. for fending a man and horse to receive it.

Cork Castle-Martyr School. May 15th, 1788, twenty-one boys, and fifteen girls. The

County, f^ooi house (built in 1748 as appears by the inscription over the door) has lately been thoroughly repaired. The bed rooms were not dirty; and the countenances of the children shew that they are properly fed; but they are not kept clean. Allowance, for soap and candles £5: fuel £10: servant-maid £5. Though this school has an ulher (paid by the matter) there seems to be little attention to the children’s instruction, for several of four or five years Handing could not read. There was not a testament in the house. — Here also the matter complained of the badness of the society’s clothes.

Athiosi Athlone Ranelagh School. At both the Ranelagh schools there are only the children Ranelagh of protestants: of this an affidavit mutt be made by their parents or nearest relations -CH ' before a magistrate. July 8th, 1787, here were forty boys. The rooms full of fleas: the boys dirty: no towels: no water: no vault. Here, and at the other schools which I visited, the salutary practice of lime-whiting is not adopted; nor can any of the upper fatties be let down. Allowance to the usher £j and a child’s maintenance. Two maid-servants £5 each: soap and candles £j: fuel £to: clothing here £1: 19: 3 each. Allowance for diet £3:2: 6, and the deduction for the work of three-fourths of the children as in other schools; though by a letter of the 9th of May 1787, the society mentions “ that the present income of the Ranelagh fund does considerably exceed the annual expenses.” In 1788, I found the boys dirty and ragged, and employed in

* The bolfters here and in several other schools were so matted with dirt, that probably, they convey the infection of scald heads. —The great Capt. Cook in his paper read to the Royal Society on the method taken for preserving the health of his crew, informs us of his care to keep their “ persons, hammocks, bedding, clothes, &c. constantly clean;” — “that he was not satisfied withordering upon deck the hammocks and bedding every “ day that was fair, but took care that each bundle should be unlashed, and so spread out that every part of it “ might be exposed to the air.”

carrying

fc*

Sect. VII.

IRELAND.

”5

carrying heavy loads of dung to a lighter. The children in general did not appear cheerful. The master was dead, and his son, totally unqualified, and only eighteen years of age, had been appointed to this important charge. April 19th, 1788, 40 Boys.*

Roscommon Ranelagh School. July 8th, 1787, forty girls. In this and the other Ranelagh school the situation of the children is changed—the girls being now where there is much arable land, and the boys where there is little or none. Here are two acres of garden ground in which boys might be well employed.

The house was clean: the girls neat. Allowance for soap and candles only £6 a year. No towels: no pump. A new infirmary is left unfinished. A contrail was

made for new sashes for die house and for building the infirmary, and the carpenter began the work the 4th of October 1786 by order of the committee of fifteen, but not having received any part of the payment, he was arrested and put into prison for £11: 10: 2. and the work was at a (land, f Diet here and at Athlone now three-pence a day for each. At my lait visit the girls were spinning and knitting. The bed room was clean, but the children were not. The mailer’s mother (old and infirm) was the mistress. April 20th, 1788, forty Girls.

Besides the Schools, there are four Nurseries for die reception of children under the age of six years. One of these nurseries is near Dublin, and the other three are called Provincial Nurseries. I visited them with peculiar attention, as the

tender age of the children renders them incapable of llruggling with hardships, or making complaints.

At Miltown-Road Nursery near Dublin, June 6th, 1787, there were of both sexes thirty-three children, many of them unhealthy. No diet table, nor rules hung up.

* In the local-committee’s book, are these words: “At a meeting, 21ft of January 1767, thirteen gentlemen

* present—having seen a dietary given to the schoolmaster by Mr. Lloyd, signed by order, Thomas Gibbons, his excellency Thotnas Pofi/ottby in the chair. — It is the opinion of this committee that the allowance of meal set'forth “ in the dietary is too small, and that not less than 1 ~lb. of meal is sufficient for the support of the children each <c day, having seen one pound of meal weighed and baked. And not less than one quart of new milk, or three 4€ pints of skimmed milk or buttermilk will be sufficient for each boy or girl.

“ Resolved, that it is the opinion of this committee, that the children be put on the allowance of 1 lib. of of meal to each, until the resolution of the committee of fifteen be farther known.”

This was not Confirmed by the committee of fifteen.

f The reports of the local committee are as follows: et 19th of May 1787, Resolved, that it is our opinion" <€ that the sum of ^20 ought to be ordered to enable the undertaker to pursue the said work, he not having been paid any money hitherto for the said sashes and said infirmary.” And the “ 29th of June, 1787, Resolved, “ that the resolution of this committee of the 19th of May, recommending £zo to be paid to the undertaker “ of the new sashes for the school-house, and rebuilding the infirmary, not having been attended to, was the (< occasion of the said undertaker’s being arrested and actually lodged in gaol; and this committee strongly “ recommend that the said sum of £zo and a farther sum of £15 be ordered to the master to be by him paid “ over to the said undertaker, he having done work equivalent to that amount, viz. the faihes made up, and t( the infirmary wall built.M

0.2

Athlone.

Ros-

common

Ranelagh

School.

N V RSE RlE^

Miltown

Roao.

I observed

IRELAND.

Sect. VII.

n6

Miltowk-

Road

Nursery.

Leinster

Nursery.

I observed an excessive parsimony in linen, soap, and other things necessary for cleanliness and health. March 18th, 1788, 24 Children; eight had fcaldheads, and one the evil.

Leinster Nursery, at Monajtereven. June 25th, 1787, there were seventy-eiglu children. Their ages, as in Miltown nursery, from two to six years. The bed rooms and Hairs not clean: bedding bad: sheets, as at mod of the schools, brown linen, ■which hides dirt and never seems clean. Allowance to master and mistress £ 10 each; soap and candles, ^12. Fuel only £14. Diet formerly l^d. a day each child, now i^d.* * Mailer’s dinner-time five o’clock. He calls himself an apothecary, and was lately paid fix guineas for medicines. The impropriety of thus veiling the power of an apothecary and of the master in one man, appears too plainly from the uncommon mortality among the children.

April 16th, 1788, there were seventy-five children, all crowded into one room or hall; the room opposite to it, and intended for a school or dining-room, being used

only for a bake-house. The children very dirty, and their hair not kept properly

combed. Fourteen or fifteen had scald heads, though in these nurseries, the society allows a maid servant for every ten children. Many whose ages were from two to four years were loaded with heavy and improper clothing. The yotingeft children are allowed only three meals a day. At the time I visited them they were dining at three o’clock on potatoes, not properly boiled: five or six of the most sickly dined on a piece of new

half-baked cake or bread; but the drink of all of them was four butter-milk. The

master (who thinks he understands physic) gives, as he fays, to every child, sulphur and milk in the morning, and intends to anoint them all for die itch. In his bill for the last quarter there were thele articles, viz.

£■ S. D.

*e Eleven coffins and grave digger - 2123

Sundries for upwards of eighty children in the fever and hooping cough, such as

wine, wine-whey &c. &c. - - - - ~ - - - - 4110

“ Diet and wages, nurse tender for thirteen weeks attending the children in the fever

and hooping cough - - 3186

When I inspected the children in 1787, I plainly saw they were improperly managed; this led me to doubt of the matter's medical fkil), and to observe to him that an attention to cleanliness and diet is more necessary than physic. Nor has my doubt been

* The following letter had lately been received here from the society. At a general meeting of the incorporated society &c. held on Wednesday the 30th of May 1787, his Grace the Lord Archbishop of “ Calhellin the chair. Resolved, that it appears to this board, that the present allowance to the children in “ the three provincial nurseries is insufficient, and that it is necessary to encrease the said allowance to 2-d.-per 11 day to commence from the 25 th of March last.

ff By Order for Mr. Thomas Gibbons, Sec.

“ George Gordon.*

removed

Sect. VII.

IRELAND.

n7

removed by the following curious report lately made by the local committee, viz. “ This Monas-“ committee apprehend there must be some rhiftake in the information given to the TEREVEN “ committee of fifteen, relative to the mailer’s want of skill in administering of drugs,

“ as he has this day been examined on oath before this committee; when he solemnly “declared, that he was never examined, or in any manner questioned, relative to his “ (kill in medicine by any person whatsoever, fmce he became master of this nursery.” —

He complained to me of the inconvenience of being obliged to draw for his quarterly bills at twenty-one, thirty-one, and forty-one days date.

Munster Nursery, at Shannon Grove, is a large, well built house, properly adapted Munster for a Jchool-house. April 5th, 1788, there were ninety-one children. They are not kept b'i. rs-rs . properly clean. They had not been washed, or combed, the day I was there: many had the itch; and I observed other cutaneous eruptions on their heads, necks and hands.

Six had died the last quarter of 1787; nine since; and there were fourteen in the infirmary. The allowance for diet now being i^d. a day, I hope the children will no longer be 'fed with skimmed milk. Here' also the quarterly bills are paid at three payments, at twenty-one, thirty-one and forty-one days date, and the discount is charged to the society.

Connaught Nursery, at Monivea. April 2d, 1788, there were twenty-two chil- Con-dren, mod of them from two to four years of age, in a very sickly condition, with the ^AL'GHT itch, feald heads, and fore eyes: some lay groveling in the turf ashes. One (brought in about six months before, and recommended by counsellor Marsh) never could stand; another being very lame, used crutches; and I was told of a third, who seemed ill, that he had been sent hither “ because he did not thrive with his parents.” The children lay in a large cold room, which extends the whole length of the house. The young creatures, on coming from warm cabins, flrould not be put immediately into such rooms, but be inured to them by degrees. In a report, Jan. id, 1786, it is said, that “ three have died lately of feald-heads, and several others are ill of the fame complaint.”

And May 19th, 1787, “On Wednesday last, notwithstanding our repeated directions “ with respect to the children’s diet, we found that at their breakfast of ftirabout, small “ beer in a very four, unwholesome state was given them; and from the late ill health “ of some of the children, and the present feeble state of more, we apprehend such “ drink has been too often substituted for milk.” The master, very properly, was soon after difiruffed, and a young couple from Dublin are now sent; but, from a view of the children and the management of them, I am led to suspedt the society has not changed much for the better. Salary to the master and mistress .£20. Allowance, for soap and candles £%: fuel £11 10: o. The water is at a mile’s distance.

The visitor lives about a mile and half distant. It seems that sometimes he makes his report from his own house; for, on the back of one account sent to the master, he wrote “ fend the copy of this to Dublin, and keep this for me.” The committee room is a granary for the visitor’s oats.

To

118

IRELAND.

Sect. VII.

Rf. M ARKS ON

Charter

Sc WOOLS.

To the remarks 1 have already made on the Charter Schools which I visited, it will not he improper to add the following bints for their improvement.

In the diet table the quantity and quality should be fixed for every day in the week.— The matter and mistress should attend the children at their meals, and dine within half an hour of their time, that the business of the house be not interrupted, and late hours introduced among the children. — The regulations for matters — children—and servants, should be printed on a board and hung up; and the bell rung at the times of rising, prayers, meals &c,

To every fifteen children there should be one maid-servant; and in large schools, there should be a cook, who ought also to manage the dairy. The whole of Saturday should be appropriated to cleanliness. There should be a larger allowance for Joap, ttarch, candles and fuel; and proper utensils for cleaning the rooms.—-The children's linen constantly changed twice a week,— A crib bedstead for every two children at most, and Angle beds for the sick children. In the matter’s or mistress’ bed room a window

to look into the children’s dormitory. An infirmary in every house, with beds and

proper bedding kept neat. — Every house once a year to be lime-whited, that is, washed with boiling water in which fresh lime-stone has been flaked.* The lashes of the windows both upper and under should be moveable. —A dairy and pantry in every house: a pump is necessary: a convenient bath; a proper vault with separations; the matter to keep only one dog: no pigs nor fowls ever to enter the house.— The matter and

mistress to accompany the children to and from church, and fit with them there.—

The time for the children’s work not to exceed four hours a day, and the matters and mistresses not to be charged for it.—Large and neat gardens fora supply of vegetables, instruction and work for the boys. — The girls to be employed in spinning and knitting, in

* I have often mentioned the want of lime-whiting in the prisons, hospitals and schools in this country, when they appeared to me very dirty; as it is attended with little expense, is exceedingly salutary, and tends to inspire young persons in particular with a love of cleanliness. Of this la ft circumstance, I am convinced from experience in somewhat limilar instances; as I have repeatedly observed, that when I have pulled down old cottages that had clay floors, and no pantry, no pump, no outhouse for fuel, nor any vault, and have built new ones with these conveniences, which have also been white-washed both within and without; the very fame families that were before llovenly and dirty, have, upon this change of their habitations, become clean and neat in their persons, in their houses, and gardens. — It was in consequence of these observations, made during my residence on my ellate in Bedfordshire, that the clause for white-walhing gaols was inserted in the act for preserving the health of prisoners.—In addition to what has been said with regard to cleanliness, it may be observed, that when quick lime is flacked in boiling water, and immediately used, it not only dellroys -vermin, but is found to be one of the llrongell mtififtics. In confirmation of this fact, 1 shall take the liberty of mentioning a remarkable instance of its efficacy in this respect. Dr. John Hope, the first physician to the royal infirmary at Edinburgh, informed me in one of my visits there, that two or three years before, a putrid fever had prevailed in that hospital, and that one large ward in particular was so deeply infefted, as to prove fatal, for some time, to the patients that were lodged in it; but that lime-whiting the walls had eradicated the infection, after walhing the ward repeatedly with vinegar had failed of this effect; and that this salutary practice had been continued ever since.

malting

IRELAND.

Sect. VII.

'making and mending their linen, and in aflilting in all kinds of household work. —Mailers and 'miftreflfes to be prohibited from felling milk, butter and cheese.

As the society’s lands are out of condition, every mailer’s expense in improving them with lime, marie &c. 'should be fully reimbursed by the local committee, in case of his difmission or death.

The protellant gentlemen, within ten miles of a school, should be earneltly requelled to be of the local committee, and to make frequent visits to it.—The ladies within the same diltance should also be desired to favour the schools with their visits j and both should make their remarks in a book kept for that purpose.

The local committee should be permitted to give llipulated premiums to the moll cleanly, orderly and diligent children, and those who make the bell improvement. This to be done with a proper degree of applaule, addressing them in such a manner as may tend to excite their emulation, and this before persons whom the children moll respect; and the names of those children who obtained the premiums should be written in the visitors’ book, and lent to the committee of fifteen in Dublin.

The committee of fifteen should pay the greatest attention to the remarks of a respeSl-able local committee.

Some of these remarks were made in my former publication, but being more fully convinced of their importance, they are now repeated. The alterations proposed may be thought too expensive; but I am persuaded that the penurioufnefs of the society in providing diet, clothing &c. which has been long observed by those who visit the children, or fee them at church, has considerably reduced the subscriptions: and these improvements would probably recover and increase them. They would at lealt retrieve the credit of the society, and do honour to the protellant cause.

I cannot forbear here expressing a wish that the benefits of education were more generally extended over Ireland, than they are by these schools. If free-schools were inllituted in every parish for inltrufting in the lower parts of learning, and the principles of morality, children of each sex, and of all persuasions; it would perhaps more than any thing tend to soften the manners of the Irish poor, and enable their youth to refill the various temptations to vice, to which they are inevitably exposed in their crowded huts and cabins.

The lower class of people in Ireland are by no means averse to the improvement of their children. At the cabins on the road fide I saw several schools, in which, for the payment of 3 j. 3 d. Irish per quarter, children were inltru&ed in reading, writing and accounts. Some of these I examined as to their proficiency, and found them much forwarder than those of the fame age in the charter schools. They were clean and wholesome, and conlilted of the children of both protellant and catholic parents.

I hope I shall not be thought, as a protestant dissenter, indifferent to the protellant cause, when I express my wilh, that these diltinclions were less regarded in bellowing the advantages of education; and that the increase of protestantism were chiefly trulted to the dififemination of knowledge and found morals.

In

- '9

Remarks

ON

Charter

Schools.

I 20 IRELAND. Sect. VII.

Remarks 0 N Charter Schools. In Scotland, almost every village has its settled school-master; the beneficial effects of which are evident: for it is principally owing to this, that the numerous emigrants from that country, diiperfed over almost all Europe, appear with credit, and advance themselves in their several stations. * The Sunday schools lately established by the benevolence of the public, in so many parts of England, will doubtless in some degree produce similar good eftefts; if the benefactors abate not of their zeal and attention. But no plan that I have seen for the extended instruction of the poor seems more judiciously calculated for the purpose, than one lately instituted by the trustees of the-Blue-coat Hospital, in the

* In Dr. John fan's Sermon to the Society in Scotland for propagating chrifHan knowledge, published in 17S6, he informs us, that (< about seven thousand poor children are instrufted in their different schools, in reading, writing, arithmetic, the principles of the christian religion, and the useful arts.” In a fammary Account, published in 1783 by this exemplary society are these words: “ The whole annual revenue of the Society <c in Scotland does not exceed £zoooo, of which there is not above £1500 applicable to their great object, “ the propagation of religion in the Highlands and Islands; yet on this small revenue they now maintain about * one hundred and eighty schools, and educate about seven thousand young people. The sum is so dispropor-“ tioned to the object, that it would be impossible for the directors to maintain so great a number of schools, “ were they not strictly attentive to the state of the parishes, and in requiring the inhabitants, as far as they “ can afford it, to contribute in part to the support of the fclioolmasters, by a small quarterly fee, and “ especially by furnishing them with a house and school-house, with fuel and a cow’s grass: this is no hardship “ on them, but it is a material aid to the masters: in a few instances, the gentlenmen or noblemen in the “ neighbourhood pay a part or a half of the salary. By such frugal managenment the directors are enabled “ to make the charities intruded to them more generally serviceable than otherwise they could have been.” The greatest part of the schools supported by the society are situated in the mofl remote parts of the highlands, where the young people have no other means of instruction; for in the low country of Scotland I had the pleasure to find parochial schools, established by law (as I have mentioned in a former publication) which afford to the poorest of the people, an opportunity of giving their children a proper education. — I must still add, what was highly commendable, that “ the society, desirous of obtaining the fulleft information with regard to t( the situation and circumstances of their schools, and the conduct of their schoolmasters in the highlands and •* islands, granted a commission to Mr. Lewis Drummond, Lieutenant in the late 115th regiment of foot, in whom they placed a very great confidence, to visit their schools in different parts, and to make an exact report tl of all the particulars relative thereto, according to instructions given-to him for that purpose. Mr. Drummond, “ in two several vifttations (in 1771, 1772) each of which continued for many months, executed this trust with “ such fidelity, diligence, and zeal, as justified the good opinion which the society entertained of him, and gave * them entire satisfaction. He made two distinct and complete reports of these vifttations, which conveyed to “ the society much interesting intelligence concerning the state, not only of their schools, but of religion in “ general, in the highlands and islands of Scotland, and suggested to them some material alterations for the improvement of their plan. From Mr. Drummond's reports of the state of their schools, the society have been led to adopt several useful regulations respecting them, to which, as well as to those formerly made, they are determined strictly to adhere. — In order to render their schools as useful as possible, the society have lately revived an old regulation, which requires that they shall be ambulatory, that is, that they shall remain in one place no “ longer than three years; at the end of which space, they shall be removed to such other stations in the fame “ or adjacent parishes as to the society shall seem meet; provided always, that the conditions above mentioned shall be performed by the inhabitants, who must also be at the expence of transporting the schoolmaster “ with his family and furniture,” city

Sect. VIL

IRELAND.

121

city of Chester, where, to an ancient establishment of an hospital for poor children, a charity for the education of a large number of out-scholars has been annexed, and has been productive of the happiest effects. I will therefore here transcribe the following particular account of it.

“ Of late years, the whole income of this charity has been expended in the maintenance “ and education of thirty boys, whom we now call in-scholars. The annual expense of each " in-scholar has been about ^13, and the education of each boy for four years has coll “ £52. Such large charitable benefactions being bellowed on a few, a much larger “ number of boys, equally destitute, have been suffered to grow up to men unemployed " and uninttructed.

“ In 1781, when the income of the hospital was augmented, it was proposed to educate “ sixty more boys, as out-scholars, to be taught reading, writing, and some arithmetic: “ but not to be clothed, maintained, or lodged in the house. This proposal was not “ accomplished till the autumn of 1783. The improvement of the sixty new scholars “ in reading, writing, and behaviour, was so remarkable, and so pleasing, that, ir “ December 1784 a proposal was made to double the number, which was unanimoudy " approved by a full and respectable meeting of the trustees. Two mailers now teach “ one hundred and twenty out-scholars. The salary of the first mailer is £40, and of “ the second ^25, a year. Hence the expense of each out-scholar is for. ioif. ft a year to the mailer. The annual expense of each boy in books is ir. ^d. and “ in coals 4!d. A green cap, which colts ir. 6d. is given to each scholar every “ year. Hence it appears that the whole annual expense of each out-scholar is i4r. “ Consequently, more money is bellowed on one in-scholar, than would educate eighteen “ out-scholars.

“ A good education is now given to thirty in-scholars, and one hundred and twenty “ out-scholars, which comprehend above one third of all the boys in Chester. The boys “ are appointed scholars about nine years old, in order to have their inltruction com-“ pleted about the age of going apprentice. When the out-scholars are of two years “ Handing, fifteen of the belt are annually elected in-scholars, for two years; and the “ boys not thus elected remain two years longer in the out-school.

“ It is an interesting truth, which deserves public attention, that two mailers can teach “ one hundred and twenty scholars. At the examination of lait April, all the boys who “ had been two years in the school, though several did not know a letter on their “ admission, could read and write very well, underltood some arithmetic, and had very “ perfectly learned their catechifrn.”*

Having

* Report of the state of the Blue-Coat Hospital, in Chester, from the 1 ft of May 1786, to the ift of May 1787.

The following extract from the Confederations on the Chester School contains sentiments which I think very just. “ A strange and pernicious prejudice has too generally prevailed, against educating the children

R "of

1 22

IRELAND.

Sect. VII.

I

i

Ackworth Having in many of the schools I have visited observed, among other irregularities, the ^ULES' rudeness of the boys, and being persuaded that no infirubiion is given them relative to a decent and becoming deportment, perhaps hints may be taken for their improvement in this reipeft from feme of the rules of the excellent institution of the Quakers, at Ackworth in Yorkshire, for the education of children of their persuasion, which 1 here copy.

“INSTRUCTIONS TO S C H 0 0 L - M A S T E R S.

“ That the schools, during the summer season, open at half after fix o’clock in the “ morning, and in the winter at half after seven o’clock, and that they close at eight; “ that after breakfast they open at nine and close at twelve; that after dinner they open “ at two and close at five. These times to be observed as near as conveniently may be.

“ That they observe that the children come into the schools, when the bell rings, “ in a quiet and becoming manner, with their faces and hands clean, hair combed, and “ take their feats at the time appointed.

“ That the boys be instructed in spelling, reading, and English grammar; that after “ dinner, the boys who attended the writing matters, shall attend the reading matters; “ and the lads who attended the reading matters, shall attend the writing matters.

“ In order that punishments may be inflicted with coolness and temper, and in pro-“ portion to the nature of the offence, the following method is agreed upon, viz. That “ the treasurer and each matter keep a book, and minute down offences committed within “ the day; that once a week, or oftener, they meet together and inspect these books, “ and administer such punishments as may be agreed upon, using their endeavours to “ convince the children that the only purpose of correction is for their amendment, and “ to deter others from the commission of the like offence.

“ That they fit down with the children and family on ift day (Sunday) evening, reading to them, or cauling them to read suitable portions of the holy feriptures, and other religious books, the treasurer and principal matter selecting such parts and “ subjeitts as are most instrudtive, anti belt adapted to their understandings.

“ That they in particular endeavour, by divine assistance, to impress upon the minds of “ the children the necessity of a ftrittt adherence to truth, and abhorrence to falsehood; as “ well as a remembrance of their Creator in the days of their youth; having the fear of the “ Lord before their eyes, which will preserve under the various temptations to which they

*• of the poor, so as to check the beneficence of the charitable and humane. Some have absurdly maintained, that the most ignorant are the most virtuous, happy, and useful part of mankind. It is astonishing what injurious •- influence this doctrine has had, though so contrary to common sense and common observation. Let any one recollect the character of bricklayers, joiners, shoe-makers and other mechanics, as well as of domestic “ servants, and he will certainly discover, that the most honest, sober, industrious and useful both to their own * families and the public, are those who have been accustomed to attend divine service, and who were instructed, “ when young, in moral principles, reading, writing, and accompts.”

t C

are

Sect. Vlli

IRELAND.

'23

“ are incident, and lead to the enjoyment of real happiness, by keeping a conscience void “ of offence towards God and towards Man.

“General Rules to be JlriSlly observed by all the Boys at Ackworth School, and to be read to them once a Month.

“ That they rife at fix o’clock in the morning in the summer, and at seven o’clock “ in the winter, and dress themselves quiedy and orderly, endeavouring to begin the “ day in the fear of the Lord, which is as a fountain of life preserving from the “ snares of death.

“ That they walh their faces and hands, and at the ringing of the bell, collect them-“ selves in order, and come decently into the schools; that they take their feats in a becom-“ ing manner, without noise or hurry, and begin business when the master shall direct.

“ That they refrain from talking and whilpering in the school; and, when repeating “ their lessons to the master, that they speak audibly and distindtly.

“ That they should not be absent from school, nor go out of bounds without leave.

“ That when the bell rings for breakfast, dinner or supper, they collect themselves “ together in silence, and in due order, having their faces and hands washed, their hair “ combed &c. and so proceed quietly into the dining room: and eat their food decendy.

“ That they avoid quarrelling, throwing {ticks, stones and dirt, striking or teazing “ one another; and they are enjoined to complain not of trifles; and when at play to “ observe moderation and decency.

“ That they neither borrow, lend, buy, nor exchange without leave, and that they “ strictly avoid gaming of all kinds; that they never tell a lie, use the sacred name irre-“ verently, nor mock the aged or deformed.

“ That when a stranger speaks to them they give a model!:, audible answer, {landing up, “ and with their faces turned towards him.

“ That they observe a sober and becoming behaviour when going to, coming from, “ and in religious meetings.

“ That their whole conduct and conversation be dutiful to their masters, and kind and “ affectionate to their school-fellows, and that in all cases they observe the command of “ Christ, All things whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even Jo to them.

“ That in the evening they collect themselves and take their feats in the dining room, “ and after answering to their names when called over, and attending to such parts of the “ holy scriptures and other religious books, which may be read to them, they retire to “ their bed chambers, and undress with as much stillness as possible, folding up tl eir “ clothes neatly, and putting them in their proper places; and they are tenderly adviicd “ to close, as well as to begin the day, with the remembrance of their gracious Creator, “ whoje :mercies are over all his works.”

The instructions to school mistresses; being similar to those for school masters; and the general rules being nearly the fame for girls, I omit copying them.

R 2

Ackworth

Rules.

I cannot

---

124 LONDON. Sect. VIII.

I cannot better conclude this subject than in the words of my learned, much respected and honoured friend Dr. Price. “Seminaries of learning are the springs of society, which, as they flow foul or pure, diffuse through successive generations depravity and misery, or on the contrary, virtue and happiness. On the bent given to our minds as they open and expand, depends their subsequent fate; and on the general management of education depend the honour and dignity of our species.”

SECTION VIII.

ENGLISH PRISONS and HOSPITALS.

THE TOWER.

Tower.

THE Tower is the only prison in England for state delinquents of rank. There has been no prisoner since Mr. Laurens went out, December 31st, 1781.

Here, in 1787, I saw a great quantity of junk or old cordage, and having again found the prisoners in the bridewells in and about London without employment, I cannot avoid repeating my former remark: “If the great quantities of old cables and ropes piled up at the Tower were delivered out to the several keepers of bridewells in and about London to be wrought for use, and prompt payment made for the work, this would prevent the excuses of keepers for not employing their prisoners.”

NEWGATE.

---

Newgate.

No alteration.* In three or four rooms there were near one hundred and fifty women crowded together, many young creatures with tire old and hardened, some of whom had been confined upwards of two years: on the men’s fide likewise there were many boys of twelve or fourteen years of age; some almost naked. In the men’s infirmary, there were only seven iron oedsteads; and at my last visit, there being twenty sick, some of them, naked and with fores, in a miserable condition, lay on the floor with only a rug. There were four sick in the infirmary for women, which is only fifteen feet and a half by twelve, has but one window, and no bedsteads; sewers offensive: prison not white-

* It may be proper to inform those readers who are not acquainted with my former publications, that when I say, no alierationy I speak with reference to the situation which such prison was in when I last viftted it; the particulars of which may be found in my former editions of The State of the Prisons &c.

waffled.

Sect. VIII. LONDON.

washed. Keeper’s salary £450 in lieu of the tap. I found some of the debtors had in their apartments calks of beer for sale; and on the felons’ fide a person flood with cans of beer. At my last visit I went over the wards of the criminals with Mr. Curtis the new Sheriff-, from whose activity and zeal I would hope something may be done for the naked objects left by the late sheriffs. — The allowance of bread lliould be weighed in grqfs, and delivered to the prisoners every day.* Unless the debtors be removed to give room for the separation of the other prisoners, and a reform be made in the prisons, an audacious spirit of profaneness and wickedness will Continue to prevail in the lower class of the people in London.

1787, March 18, Debtors 140. Felons &c. 2i°-

1788, Aug. 26, - - 114. - - - 499. viz.

Men Debtors 96, Women 125 County Court Debtors 5; Excise Debtor 1 } Capital CmtviSs, 10 Men and 1 Woman Capital Conviftsrefpited, 63 Men and 19 Women j Transports, 183 Men and 103 Women; Fines, 40 Men and 4 Women; for Trial, 57 Men and 19 Women.

October iff: the prisoners were as numerous as at my former visits.

T HE FLEE T.

No alteration. Liquors sold as usual, notwithstanding the late AB which prohibits keepers from felling liquors, or having any interest or concern therein. J

In the House. In the Rules.

1787, April 2, Debtors 121. - 74.

1788, Oft. 6, - - 132. - 80. viz.

Men within the Walls 125; Women 7. Men in the Rules 79; Woman 1.

* In all prisons where great numbers are served with bread, if it may not be expetted that every single loaf should be weighed, yet they might be weighed by tens or twenties. To every ward here, and at both the Compters, there is an orderly prisoner called a wardfinan, who should wash, sweep and keep his ward fresh and clean, and who had for many years a double allowance of bread, till a late sheriff. Sir Robert Taylor, took it off. I wish this small encouragement to cleanliness had been continued.

f In my former work 1 have given an abftratt of Sir Stephen Theodore JanJJen’s table of convicts &c. But, as in the riots in 1780, all the records of the Old Bailey were burnt, that table, as being the only remaining memorial, is now become so valuable, that I have thought proper to annex it entire at the end of the book. A careful perusal of it will, I doubt not, suggest many useful remarks; particularly, if the number of executions in former years be compared with the constantly increasing number of the present time, it may, more than any thing else, excite a conviction of the necessity of no longer delaying the erection of penitentiary houses, in order to avoid the charges of inhumanity and impolicy, in hurrying out of the world so many young creatures, who might have been reclaimed and restored to society by a proper course of discipline.

I have also given a table of all the executions for London and Middlesex during the twelve subsequent years, and at the end of this book shall continue it to December 1788. These tables together with JanJferds will give the total number of executions for forty years past.

X 24th of Geo. III. Cap. liv. Se&. 22.

1 2

Newgate

Fleet.

NEW

I 2 6

L O N D O

N.

Sect, VIII.

New

Ludgate.

Poultry

Compter.

Wood-

Street

Compter

NEW LUDGATE.

Here are several improvements. Four fire-places are added; plenty of water by two pipes, one on each main. Prison clean and quiet. The Lord Mayor lends three chaldrons of coals, and the Sheriffs two as usual. Keeper now has no licence. In the large work-room I always found either chair-makers, basket-makers, or coopers at work. It would be more convenient if the court were paved with flat stones, and the waste water conduflfed through the offensive vault. On conversing with the keeper, who is secretary to Mr. Akerman, he observed to me, “ now prisoners keep taps.”

1787, Nov. 6. Debtors 24.

POULTRY COMPTER.

Clean, and white-washed in 1787. Some casements are wanted: in the prince’s ward there are none. Criminals of both sexes are together in one small day-room. Visitors, by the false lenity of the Sheriffs, are admitted from morning to night; and persons are always ready at the gate to serve the prisoners with beer. * Allowance, to felons 1 {d. in bread (weight in 1787, 17 02.) to debtors a penny loaf (weight in 1788, 11 02.) These have from the sheriffs meat and coals, weekly. Surgeon now Mr. Jenes. Keeper’s salary ^150 in lieu of the tap.

1787, March 19, Debtors 37. Felons &c. 27.

1788, Aug. 26, Debt. M. Side 6. C. Side, Men 26, Worn. 4. Fel. &c. 18. For Examination 5.

- - oa. 3, - - - - 7- - - - 25, - - 3. - - 7. - - - - 12.

WOOD-STREET COMPTER.

No alteration. This ruinous prison not white-washed. Prisoners here are not

restrained in the purchase of liquors. Mr. Sheriff Bloxam has lately released sixteen

debtors with money given by the public. There were no sick prisoners in either of the Compters.f Allowance to felons i~d. in bread, weight in 1788, 1 lb. Keeper’s salary ^225 in lieu of the tap.—A new compter is now building.

1787, March 19, Debtors 51. Felons &c. 32.

1788, Aug. 26, Debt. M. Side, Men 17, Worn. 5. C.Side 16. Felons&c. 19. ForExamin. ix.

- - Ocb 1, - - 13, - - 5. - - 26. - - - 10. - 38.

* One advantage that was expected from the abolition of the tap in gaols, was preventing die comrades of criminals from affoc rating with them, which gave an opportunity of plotting further mischief, and tended to suppress impeachments, through the false hopes with which their companions encouraged them before their trials; but, the unrestrained visits of their friends, and the permission of beer, wine &c. to be brought to them from certain public houses, this intended advantage is in a great measure frustrated.

f Theprisons of late years are visited by the ftieriffs, and they are much more healthy places of abode than they were formerly. The debtors, by the liberal contribution of the ftieriffs and others, live in the compters better than many industrious tradesmen; but there is little attention to the separation of prisoners, or their morals.

BRIDEWELL.

Sect. VIII.

LONDON.

BRIDEWELL.

No alteration but the ventilator taken down. Each sex has a work-room and a night- Bridewell room. They lie in boxes, with a little straw, on the floors. The prison not being strong the men were in irons. Some were picking oakum, and others were making ropes, which is a new and proper employment. Mr. Hardwick, a hemp-dresser, has their labour, and a salary of twenty guineas a year.—Allowance a penny loaf each, and four days in the week ten ounces of beef without bone &c. The allowance, for persons constantly employed, is not too much; but would it not be better if they had less meat, and more bread ? The prison wants white-washing, and the men’s night-room more light and air. At my first visit two were in the infirmary; at my last, only one.

1787, Nov. 6, Men 26. Women 25.

1788, Sept. 13, - - 19. - - 10.

There are very properly solitary cells for the bridewell boys, in which one was confined, and employed in beating hemp.

Vagrants and others committed to this prison.

In 1783, Prisoners 1597- In 1785, Prisoners 612.

1784, - - - 2956. 1786, - - - 716.

N. B. The numbers are from the accounts made up every Easter.

1 1 M

r I

NEW PRISON CLERKENWELL.

No alteration but the keeper’s house improved by the late tap-house being laid to it: still however he has no view of the courts, nor of any person coming into the prison.— The prison-rooms clean; the wardfmen having, very properly, a double allowance of bread. No Tick ward for women: no bedding. The bath never used: no water in that pump for two years. Chapel badly contrived: not white-washed. Men and women separated; but allforts of prisoners associate together, playing at cards &c.—Allowance one pound of bread a day. Keeper’s Hated salary ^50; but if his perquisites and fees do not amount to ,£250 more, the magistrates are to make up the deficiency. Prisoners are detained for their fees, and some pawn their scanty clothing to obtain a discharge. — Mrs. IVildman continues her late husband’s weekly benefaction to this prison, and the bridewell.

ft

New

Prison

Clerken-

WELL.

128

WESTMINSTER.

Sect. VIII.

Clerken-

WELL

Bridewell

W«iTG

Chapel

Prison,

Tower

Hamlet’s.

St.Catharine’s.

Savoy.

CLERKENWELL BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. The prison quite clean: the rooms washed every day. The prisoners on both Tides nniferable objects; very dirty; some almost naked: all without employment: no fort of bedding allowed by the county: * several women in the Tick ward.—Allowance, one pound of bread a day; and to the fines an additional pennyworth of bread and a pennyworth of cheese. Keeper’s salary £50, to be made up £300 by perquisites and fees as at the new prison. j-

The foundation is laid for a new house of correSion, in a much better situation. When the prisoners are removed, the adjoining prison may be greatly improved, for the proper separation of prisoners, an infirmary, chapel &c.

1787, March 21, Men 66. Women 77. 1788, Aug. 28, Men 114. Women 123.

Of the Men in 1788, 3 were Court of Conscience Debtors, and 23 Fines. Of the Women 15 were Fines.

WHITECHAPEL PRISON.

The keeper’s house fitted up and the court latticed over. Keeper, a sheriff’s officer for the county of Middlesex, and in 1788 had two county prisoners in custody.

1787, April 4, Debtors 2. 1788, Sept. 15, Debtors none.

TOWER HAMLET’s GAOL.

No alteration. The rooms dirty, and the prison for some years going to ruin.

1787, April 4, Two Prisoners. 1788, Aug. 20, One Prisoner.

St. CATHARINE’S GAOL.

1787, April 4, It was let for a warehouse.

THE SAVOY.

A great part of this -prison having been burnt laid February, the prisoners at night are now crowded into two rooms. The prison very dirty: not white-washed these two years. Some of the prisoners almost naked; without shirts, shoes or stockings. Several prisoners died last spring, and probably many more will die the spring ensuing, if greater attention be not paid to them. Here were fix of the guards in a close offensive room (the black hole) in which they are confined on bread and water twenty-four or forty-eight hours, for drunkenness, neglect of duty &c.

1788, Sept. 13, Delerters 45.

■ I am sorry to observe that very little attention is hill paid in our prisons to the article of bedding, so essential to the health and comfort of prisoners.

f If magistrates think that £]GG is a proper salary for their keeper, would it not be more generous to allow it, than to oblige many half-naked, and almost starved objects, to part with their scanty clothing, or continue in confinement

WESTMINSTER

Sect. VIII.

WESTMINSTER.

WESTMINSTER PRISON.

This Prison, adjoining to the bridewell in Tothill-fields, the property of the dean and chapter, was erected in 1779 when the gate-house was taken down, and is now used in aid of the Savoy. It consists of four rooms, nineteen feet nine inches square, one of which is for the confinement of the refractory, in which there were two prisoners. The other three are lodging-rooms, very dirty, and the prisoners have neither bedding nor straw. Many were almost naked, and had no shoes, stockings or shirts--Several deserters had been confined from fifteen to seventeen months. Some were in heavy irons for attempting to break out. Many of them were sickly, and objects of companion. Allowance, four-pence a day each, for which they are supplied with provisions. The stoppage of the two-pence of their pay, while they lie on the bare boards, is very severe.

1788, Sept. 17, Deserters 94.

TOTHILL-FIELDS BRIDEWELL.

No alteration in this prison. The men afiociating together in one part, and the women in another; all without employment, except three or four debtors who were shoe-makers. At night, some men come to a room in the women’s court, and some women go to a room on the men’s fide, which is called the chapel, from the use made of it by the late worthy keeper. Several prisoners were drinking in a room used by the turnkey for his (hop. Here is also a room for the deposit of bonnets and other articles of clothing, which may be a convenient security for the keeper’s fees; one woman, however, I turned out, who had remained four days after the expiration of her term, and had no share in the property contained in this room. In some county gaols the salaries to the gaolers are in lieu of all fees; whereby the hardship of forcing poor creatures to part with some of their scanty clothing, in order to purchase their discharge, is prevented. No bedding here, which is the case in all the London prilbns, except that in the city called bridewell, where they have a little loose straw, and beds for the few who can pay •a high price for them. Surgeon Mr. Hanbury. Salary .£30. No infirmary.*

1787, March 2j, Court of Conscience Debtors 1. Criminals, Men 79. Women 56.

1788, Aug. 30, ----- 3. - - - - 57. - - 78.

* In conversation with the keeper, he observed, that a prisoner’s term of confinement ends at midnight.— It would be much better if prisoners were released after receiving their bread allowance, and not in the evening; for many, having neither money nor friends, are immediately exposed to the temptation of repeating their former crimes.

S THE

f

West-mi n s t r. r. Pa Ison.

Tothill-

FIELDS

Bridewell*.

SOUTHWARK.

Sect. VIII.

130

King’s

Bench

Prison.

Marshalsea PRISON.

Borough

Compter.

THE KING’S BENCH PRISON.

No alteration. Liquors fold in the same manner as before the act of 24th of Geo. III. I was pleased to fee in the lobby an order printed on a board, that no dogs should go into this prison.

In the Hou/e. In ibe Rules.

1787, April 2, Debtors 370. - 60.

1788, Oft. 9, - - 340. - 104. viz.

Men within the Walls about 33c; Women about 20. Men within the Rules about 95; Women about 9.

MARSHALSEA PRISON.

No alteration in this ruinous prison. The premises belong to four landlords, and Mrs. Marjon, the widow of the late deputy marshal, has them on a long lease, at ^iox rent. She lets some small rooms to the prisoners at 3.5. a week, and other rooms to persons who are not prisoners: here is a drunken turnkey; and spirituous liquors are sold as common as beer. Within the prison is an alehouse (or tap) where there are frequent scenes of riot and debauchery.*

1787, April 2, Debtors 25. Admiralty Prisoners 3.

1788, Aug. 28, - - 36.f ----- 1.

BOROUGH COMPTER.

A new gaol on a bad plan. Staircases narrow: passages dark and only three feet wide: the wards of the men and women debtors join, so that the prisoners associate together. The whole prison very dirty: not white-washed since occupied at Michaelmas 1787. Sewers not offensive, the tide ebbing and flowing through them. Garnish (2s. 10d.) not abolished. Allowance, a penny loaf a day (weight in 1788, 10loz.) Eleanor Gwinn’s charity, of sixty-five loaves every eight weeks, continued regularly. Keeper, a sheriff’s officer for Surrey: no /alary.—A new table of fees hung on the gate; but as it teemed to be written by the keeper, and was not signed by any magistrate, I do not copy it.

17S7, April 2, 6 Debtors.

1788, Aug. 28, 11 Court of Conscience Debtors.

‘The two other pri/ons in Southwark belong to the comity of Surrey.

* One morning, on mentioning to the marihal’s substitute that several prisoners were drinking, he replied, .< The chief vice among prisoners is drunkenness j and that brings them here; and while they can drink and riot in prison they disregard the confinement.”

f One of the common-fide debtors was an old man, whole original debt was £10: 4: 0 to a cow-keeper at Marybone, who has regularly paid him the allowance of is. \d. a week ever since January 1784.

I floall

.LONDON.

Sect. VIII.

I

>3^

St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in Smithfield.

St. Bar. The wards of this hospital, which are three fides of a spacious quadrangle, are on tholo- jjg ground floor and three stories above. The wards, being double, have not the

M EW’s

Hospital, advantage of opposite windows j but they were clean and not offensive, except the men’s four foul wards, which are on the uppermost flory, and had not one window open. The two foul wards for women were clean and fresh. The wards are lofty, twenty-two

feet wide, and in each were about fifteen beds. The bedsteads are wood, and their

tellers, though lofty, are a harbour for dufl and lumber. The beds were not crowded, and the wards were quiet. The staircases are wide; the landing places spacious $ and the windows were open. — The diet of the patients is nearly the fame as in the London hospital, except on Thursdays, when instead of 8oz. of meat they have 4oz. of cheese and 1 oz. of butter; and every day a pint of milk pottage, but on Thurl'day a pint and a half; and every day three pints of beer. The allowance of bread is too small.— Here is a large cold bath, and a room adjoining for a warm bath. To each ward there

is a sister and a nurse; the former has a room adjoining, but no window into her

ward. Fees are taken for the admission of patients: for clean patients 2 s. viz. is. for the sister, 6d. to the nurse, 6d. to the beadle; for foul patients £1:5:8, viz. $s. for flannels, iSs. $d. for two months subsistence at 4d. per day: 2s. ward dues.— Every patient mufl deposit 17 s. 6d. for a burial fee, or a house-keeper give security; except in case of sudden accidents. Sept. 19th, 1788, Patients 428.*

The

* Adjoining to Bartholomew’s Hospital is Christ’s Hospital, which being the g reate ft charitable institution in this kingdom for the education of children, I shall give a short account of it. Here are now only boys, the girls being removed to Hertford. Near a thousand children enjoy the benefit of tins noble institution.

In Otilober 1788, there vveie in the Mathematical School - - - 44

Grammar School - - - 49

Under Grammar School - - 148

Writing School - - - 207

Reading School 1- 96

At Hertford, Boys - 353 - - - Girls - 53

Total 950

The mathematical, and some other school-rooms, are lofty and good; and the dining room is large, in which the children meet three times a day. The beds are improperly close to the wall, and have wooden tellers. The boys lie two in a bed, and the beds have clean linen once a month. The kitchen has a cupola, and is the frelheft and best kitchen for an hospital 1 have ever seen. The staircases, school-rooms and dormitories should be lime-whited every year: great attention is paid to the cleanliness of the boys: they are washed morning and evening, and have clean linen twice a week. ,

No children are admitted under the age of seven. The girls are discharged at fourteen, and the boys at fifteen, except the mathematical boys and those intended for the university.

The boys have coats once a year: breeches twice: shoes and stockings every quarter: caps and girdles yearly; and bands four times a year.

Sect. VIII.

The Middlesex Hospital in Marybone.

This hospitalj built in 1755, and supported by voluntary contribution, consists of Middlesex sixteen wards, of which only four are occupied, the funds being very low. The rooms are close and dirty, except one called the founder’s. The bedsteads and wooden tellers are old: the house wants white-washing, and the whole has an air of poverty, yet an order is hung up, that no servant shall take any fee, gratuity or reward. — In the printed laws, and orders I am sorry to find the following one. “ That all drugs,

« medicines, materials and necessaries be bought from persons, who will furnish them “ at the cheapest rate, and that the preference be given to tradesmen who are subscribers.”

Sept. 16th, 1788, Patients 70.

At every meal, the matter who presides having struck three times with a hammer for silence, a boy in the desk, with an audible voice, assis a blessing and returns thanks.

An augmentation of one fifth has lataly been made to the bread allowance. They have now daily for breakfast half a small loaf: the fame quantity for dinner; and also for supper, with a small quantity of either better or cheese. The loaves are about the lize of threehalfpenny loaves, and remarkably good. They have for dinner on

Thursday, Friday, Saturday,

Beef boiled, with broth.

Boiled mutton, with broth.

Pease porridge, with bread and butter.

Sunday, Beef boiled, with broth.

Monday, Milk pottage, with bread and butter.

Tuesday, Mutton roasted.

Wednesday, Millet, or rice milk with bread.

On particular days, the gift of Benefactors, veal roasted, beef roasted, pork roasted, and pork boiled. Of meat, each child has about four ounces. I made a remark on the impropriety of the blue-coat school boys in Dublin being accustomed to so much animal food, without potatoes or any kind of vegetables: I mutt make the fame here, and especially, as I am now persuaded that that school and several others copy after this excellent charity. On this subject many authors might be quoted; but I jshall only mention Dr. Macbride, who, in his Experimental Essays, shews, “ that a property common to all fresh vegetables, is, that when mixed with “ any animal substance, and placed in the proper degree of heat, they presently run into fermentation, and, in the “ course of that fermentation, throw off a subtile vapour, or spirit, of surprising activity, endued with a power of “ restoring sweetness to putrid animal fluids.” And the Doctor “ lays it down as a position, not easily to be con-<f troverted, that the genuine putrid feurvy has never been known to yield to any other medicines than to such as are * composed of fresh vegetables; and provided they be fresh, and of such a nature as will allow them to be taken freely, it is almoftno matter what they are. The acid, the sweet and the bitter, all of them cure thefeurvy.” — “ Sir Job?: Pringle aferibes, and with great justice, to the frequent ule of fresh vegetables and sugar, which now (t make up so great a part of the diet of the European nations, that we at this day so seldom hear of the dreadful " putrid diseases which formerly swept off such multitudes, every thirty or forty years, and generally went rf under the name of plagues.”

Here is a clean and separate court, with wards for the sick. Only one of these was occupied, in which were five children. I was informed that only two died last year.

The charges and orders for the several officers of this hospital are published, and given to the governors: and with pleasure 1 confirm the remark of my worthy friend the late Dr. Fothergill, " that in this, which is one of “ the largest public schools for the education of children in this kingdom, and in the centre of the city of t( London, and where people of all ranks and orders are perpetually passing and repassing; such is the due t( subordination that is tmpreffed upon them by their superiors, that one fees amongst them, while at play in “ the public courts of the school, much less rudeness and disorderly conduct than might have been expected ‘ even from a more confined course of education.

'34

LONDON.

Sect. VIM.

St. Thomas’s Hospital in Southwark.

St.

Thomas’s

Hospital.

Some of the wards in this hospital are only eighteen feet wide: the bedsteads are iron and very properly detached from the walls: there are no tellers, but semicircular irons for the curtains in winter. The wards were fresh and clean, except the three foul wards, in which were fifty-three men and twenty-seven women: these were very offensive and had not a window open. There were no water closets. The bread was excellent.

The Diet Table was as follows:

“FULL DIET.

Breakfast. Milk porridge four days, water gruel three days.

Dinner. Three days half a pound boiled mutton, and two days beef; the other two days 4os. butter, or 6 oz. cheese.

Supper. Broth one pint, on meat days bread fourteen ounces j beer one quart in winter, and three pints in summer.

MIDDLE OR LOW DIET.

Breakfast. Milk porridge four days, water gruel three days.

Dinner. Six ounces of mutton or veal five days, the other two days as above, viz. cheese or butter.

Supper. Milk porridge four days, water gruel three days. Bread 1202:. beer one quart.

MILK DIET.

Breakfast. Milk porridge four days, water gruel three days.

Di nner. One pint rice milk, or 8<5«. of pudding (if possible) three days.

Supper. Milk porridge four days, water gruel three days. Drink one part milk and two water; a quart

in winter, three pints in summer. Bread izoz.

DRY DIET.

Breakfast. Two ounces cheese, or 2oz. butter.

Dinner. The fame as the full diet, till it can be determined about pudding.

Supper. Two ounces cheese, or zoz. butter. Five sea biscuits, or bread 14oz. — Beer one quart a day.

FEVER DIET.

Barley water, water gruel, panado, thin hroth, milk porridge, rice gruel, balm or sage tea, when ordered.”

The rules of the hospital, and the duty of the nurses and patients were hung up.

I copy a good order at this hospital.

“ XII. That if any surgeon have any considerable or extraordinary operation to “ perform, he shall give notice of the time of his doing the fame to the other furgrons, “ that they may be present.” But I searched in vain to find (what I have often wished were a Handing order in all hospitals) that no amputation should ever take place till after a consultation of three medical gentlemen, who shall be of unanimous opinion that it is absolutely necessary, and that there is no probability of effecting a cure without the use of the knife and saw.*

* In a county hospital, I have known one of the moll excruciating of all chirurgical operations prevented, by the spirited exertions of the good old house apothecary: and the patient by his attention and care was cured. And even in the experience of a private country gentleman, among the surrounding poor, foine inilances have occurred, in which rest, regimen, and cooling pkyjic have saved limbs, which gentlemen of the faculty were /ecidedlj of opinion, mufl be amputated.

Ever)-

Sect. VIII.

JL O N D O N.

1J5

St.

Thomas's

Hospital.

I

Every clean patient pays a fee of 3/. 6d. at admission, and a foul or venereal patient pays ior. 6d. besides 4-d. a day; and all pay the nurses for walhing their linen. A surety engages to supply the patient with clean body linen every week, and pay the fees for his burial to the steward of the hospital. I am sorry to find such great quantities of beer brought from public houses into this and other hospitals. Here and at Guy’s, the patients easily get out, there being no proper attention to the gates, so that the adjoining gin-lhops often prevent the efficacy of medicine and diet. Sept. 17th, 1788, Patients 440.

Guv’s Hospital in Southwark.

This hospital was founded and endowed at the foie expense of Thomas Guy, a private citizen of London, and erelled during his life-time. The wards in this

hospital are in general too low: the height of some is only nine feet and a half. In several of the old wards (each containing about thirty beds) the beds and rcfters are wood, and infefted with bugs. In the new wards, which were clean and fresh,* are iron bedsteads and hair beds; and each patient has a box which Hides under the bed-stead, and makes a feat when drawn out. The window at the upper end of each of these wards opens from the cieling to the floor; f and there are all'o ventilators in the cielings which communicate with the chimneys of the wards over them, and by means of the common fires draw off the foul air. The water closets in the new wards are on the heft construction, and not in the least offensive; for by opening the door, water is turned into them. J Here is a good contrivance for easily opening the upper falhes, which in other hospitals, being lofty and heavy, are opened with difficulty. The medicines are principally prepared under the care of an ingenious gentleman, who has been furnished with a laboratory and mills, that they may be certain of having their drugs free from adulteration. The patients box and medicine-tray, are numbered: this prevents confusion, and consequently mistakes which may be sometimes fatal, through the ignorance or carelessness of nurses. Here are excellent baths, in clean and neat rooms. The alterations in this hospital are to go on, and as it is situated in a very close part of the

* The following order is in the rules of this hospital, that “ if any patient be found smoking tobacco in bed, or in the ward, they are to be discharged.”

t The sashes are hung on pivots, which are on each fide the window; they are in several divisions, and lap upon each other;—when they are set open to their greatest extent, they form horizontal planes, at right angles with the fafh-frames, and admit air equal to the whole opening of the window, excepting the substance of the frames.

| The water closets are constantly supplied with freftt water, from a reservoir; they empty and fill the basin by opening the door. They are so simply constructed that they require little attention, and are not liable to be easily put out of repair. They are free from ill scents. The basin is of earthen or queen’s ware, glazed; and it is always charged with water, being supplied afrelh every time the patient leaves the closet. The door aSs on the cittern by a common lever, and the fame operation discharges all that is left in the basin.

{

town*

>J6

L O

N D O N.

Sect. VIII..

Guy’s

Hospital,

West-

MINSTER

Hospital.

St. George’s Hospita l.

town, and surrounded with buildings, they are highly commendable, that the patients may enjoy the advantage of a free circulation of air. Each ward is to be taken in rotation; it being the-desire of the governors, and that of the present attentive treasurer, to carry the improvements, for the benefit of the patients to the greatest extent. The architect is the ingenious Mr. William Blackburn. — To the former gentlemen I must mention, that I saw a woman bring her child, and with tears leave the fee of is. yd. for the nurse, and 6d. for the steward.— The foul patients pay 7s. Every patient on admission must lay down 10s. or find security for their burial. Sept. 17th, 1788, Patients 304.

iThe Westminster Hospital in James’s-street.

This was the jirft of its kind in this kingdom. It was instituted 1719, For the Relief of the Sick and Needy from all Parts; with an establishment for incurables, begun 1734, supported by voluntary contributions. The wards of this old hospital are in general only seventeen feet wide: the beds parallel and close to die walls, with wooden tellers: the floors were sanded; and the walls dirty. Most of the upper falhes were not moveable. A sum is paid every year for the destruction of bugs. Bread allowance to the patients is too small. A diet-table is published, and an annual account, but no book of the rules and orders. Here are no ward-fees taken, nor security for burial. Sept. 24th, 1788, Patients 71, and 14 Incurables.

St. George’s Hospital for Sick and Lame at Hvde-Park-Corner.

This is in a good situation. Here are three large, and three small wards for men; and the fame number for women: the lower wards arc for accidents. The wards are twenty-two feet and a half wide, and only ten and a half high: they are too close, especially the men’s, which were very offensive, all the windows being ftiut. The windows are small, and too distant from the cieling: the bedsteads are old, have tellers, and the beds Hand close to the wall:* the floors were sanded; and the walls wanted white -waihing. The kitchen and offices are under ground, and were neither neat nor clean. A good cold bath, but not used. A good garden. The staircases here, and in almost all our hospitals, are of wood: the stone staircases in the hospitals abroad are more proper.

* I am fully persuaded that very much depends on the patients lying on fresh and clean beds. In many hospitals the beds are old, and crowded again!! the walls, so that there is no circulation of air round them; and, by a fuccclfion of patients with various disorders, must be very offensive. If the annual sum paid in several hospitals for the destruction of bugs, were expended in airing, beating and brulhing the beds, the end, perhaps, would be much better answered. For in the country where the air is fresh, and freely admitted into lodging-rooms, there are few or no bugs. In the hospitals in Sweden I observed a very good mode of sweetening the beds: on every fine day a certain number were brought into the open air, and beaten and brushed on a deal machine made for that purpose. I could wish that such a practice were adopted in our hospitals, and that the rest of the bedding were more frequently wasted and aired.

Their

Sect. VIII. LONDON.

There are no rules or orders published, but only an annual account, with the names of the governors &c. on one sheet of paper. In several wards this order is painted on a board.

“At a General Court, Jan. nth, 1783 ordered. That no person whatsoever be-“ longing to this house presume, upon pain of expulsion, to take of any, either in or “ out-patient a fee, reward or gratification of any kind, directly or indirectly, for any “ service received in this house; and this not only while they are under the care of this “ house, but also after they shall be discharged.” Sept. 22d, 1788, Patients 150.

The British Lying-in Hospital, in Brownlow-street, for the Reception of

Married Women.

Here are fix wards, and in each fix beds. The wards were clean and quiet: provision good: kitchen and pantry clean. This is a good institution, and proper attention is paid to the patients; who continue here three weeks after they are delivered. The house is old, and wants white-washing, and the cielings are too low. Here female pupils are instructed in the art of midwifery, and after residing four or six months, receive certificates of their ability to practise. Women are admitted here in the moll generous manner, for no fee or gratification of any kind is allowed to the nurses or servants.

The laws, orders and regulations of this hospital are published, and they are full and explicit. I was glad to find the following one, viz. “ The ladies, governors and “ subscribers to this charity, may at any time visit the lying-in wards; and such their “ visitation will be esteemed as a favour done to die charity.”

Women delivered and discharged from Dec. 31 ft, 1786, to Dec. 31ft, 1787, 550. Died 7. — Total 557.

The City of London Lying-in Hospital in the City Road, for Married Women.

Here are eight wards, seventeen feet wide, which open into passages fix feet wide; fix only are occupied, each containing eight beds. The wards and beds were clean, and over the door of each ward was a circular aperture of about a foot diameter. Here there is a chapel. The house wants white-washing. — The women continue three weeks after delivery, and in particular cases longer; if they choose it, their children are baptized in the house. The annual account is published; and in the hall, lifts of the donors’ names are painted on boards; also the hospital lift of women and children, which commenced in

1771, when there were 489 Women delivered; 4 had twins. Total born 493, viz. Males 230, Females 263.

The numbers in 1779 were 545 - - - - 6 - - - - 551’ - - - 281, - - 270.

17Bo - - 451 - - - - 4 - - - ' 455> - - - 220, - - 235-

1781 - - 453 - - - - 3 - - - - 456. - - - 223, - - z33-

1782 - - 456 - - - - 6 - - - - 462, - - - 214, - - 248.

1783 . . 510 - - - - 3 - - - - 5*3> - - - 276, - - 237.-

1784 . . 549 - - - - 5 - - - - 554' - - - 269, - - 28;.

1785 - - 582 .... 9 - - - - 591, - - - 299, - - 292.

1786 - - 586 - - - _ 12 T - - 595' - - - 310, - - 283. Opposite

•J'/

St.

George's

Hospital.

British Lying-in Hospital.

London Lying-1 Iff HOSPITAL.

LONDON.

Sect. VIII.

*3*

London JLy I KG-IN HOSPITAL.

Lock

Hospital.

Opposite the door is this order; that no person be allowed to go up into the wards to visit the patients, but between the hours of three and five in the afternoon.

I could wish that there were a (landing order in this, and all hospitals, that no governors or governesses of hospitals should have any concern, directly or indirectly, in serving the hospitals'to which they belong with provisions &c. Sept. 23d, 1788, Women 36.

The Lock. Hospital near Hyde-Park-Corner, for the Relief of venereal Patients only.

Here are three wards for men and three for women. The beds have canvass tellers. The wards want white-washing. The chapel is spacious: the patients during divine service are in two upper rooms, concealed from the audience by blinds. There is a good bathing room, and a garden. Vifiters to the patients are admitted on Mondays, from two o’clock till four. The abstract of the rules and orders is published. The admifTion and difmifTion of the patients are without a fee or gratuity to any of the servants, and no security at admission is required for their burial. Sept. 22d, 1788, Men 36. Women 28.

Beth lem

* A prejudice prevailing in the minds of many people again]} such hospitals will, I hope, be my excuse for copying the Introduction to the Abjlrad of the Rules and Orders.

(t The disease which intitles the objects of this hospital to relief, is in itself extremely loathsome, and direful in its effects; and the unhappy sufferers, if poverty be their companion, are doubtless involved in the mod

deplorable *wretchedness.

Many a worthy woman has here to lament the diabolical profligacy of an abandoned husband.— Many a poor and helpless infant to deplore its being the offspring of a distempered parent.—Many a young creature of tender years, yea, even in infancy itself, has to bewail the inhuman violence of a diseased, filthy, and loathsome ravisher. — Others who have been led away by the arts and wiles of seducers, by promises made only to be broken, and fair words meant only to deceive. — And lastly, many who have inadvertently fought their own ruin, have also been cured in this hospital; such, many such, but for this house, had rotted and perished miser-ably. Some of these, whose lives have happily been preserved, have kified the rod of affliction; by the blessing of God have turned from their iniquity, and been happily restored to their family, their country and themfeltves.

Therefore their having brought on themselves the disease by their own fin and folly is no reason why they

should be left to perish. A life loft to the public, from whatever cause, is still a loss.-If we speak of the

matter in a christian view, how dare any, who profess to know the grace of our Lord Jesus Chrrfi, make this an objection ? Suppose the Redeemer had urged such a plea against becoming poor for our fakes; suppose he had said of us, —" Leave those sinners to the consequences of their fin and folly — they are miserable, guilty, loft and " undone, but it was their own fault — let them perish eternally—let the law take its vengeance on them — I’ll •c not become poor for their fakes, to save them from its curse, for they do not deserve that I should,” — had this

been the language of our Lord, where had we now been ?-We should not now be partaking of his mercies,

but feeling his righteous vengeance — not invited to an opportunity of fhevving pity and compassion to others, but ourselves in torment, crying in vain for a drop of water to cool our tongues.

And though this charity gives encouragement to repentance, by giving the moll proffligate, one fair opportunity to refle£l, and amend their lives, yet it destroys all incitement to preemption, by affording no repetition, of its countenance and favour, to the hardened and impenitent. — For it is a fixed, determinate, fundamental rule of the charity, that no person whatsoever, if once discharged, is ever to be admitted a second time.—

And

Sect. VIII.

LONDON.

l39

Bethlem Hospital in Moorfields,

For the Cure of Lunatics, and the Reception of Incurables.

The committee room and apartments for the Rewards &c. are in the centre; and in long galleries and wings on each fide, are the rooms for the patients. The size of these rooms is twelve feet by eight feet ten inches, and twelve feet ten inches high: the rooms in the wings and at the top of the house are less: the galleries are sixteen feet wide. On the four floors there are about two hundred and seventy rooms: these were quite clean and not offensive, though the house is old and wants white-washing. The galleries have, very properly, rooms only on one fide. The patients communicate with one another from the top to the bottom of the house, so that there is no separation of the calm and quiet from the noisy and turbulent, except those who are chained in their cells. To each fide of the house there is only one vault: very offensive. There are no cisterns at the top of the house, nor water in the upper floor.

There are fitting rooms with fire-places properly guarded with iron—a cold bath and airing grounds for each sex — no chapel—Bread allowance to patients, 1 lb. a day (8 trz. at dinner, and the fame at supper). Their bread, butter, cheese and beer were very good. Two house-keepers, “ when a patient is to be admitted, enter into “ a bond of £100 to pay for bedding and clothes, during the patient’s continuance in the “ hospital, and to take him or her away when discharged by the committee, and to pay “ the charge of burial, if the patient die in the hospital.” When a patient is difinifled as incurable, his name is entered, that when there is a vacancy among the incurables (the number of whom is sixty men and fifty women) he may be admitted, paying only half a crown a week.—Vifiters are admitted by a governor’s ticket, only on Mondays and Wednesdays, between the hours of ten and twelve. Sept. 26th, 178S, Men 133. Women 139.

St. Luke’j Hospital for Lunatics in Old-street Road.

This spacious building was first occupied on new year’s day 1786; the former in Moorfields being old and inconvenient. Here are on each of the three floors, three long galleries and wings, with opposite cells for the patients; and in the centre are apartments for officers &c. On one fide of these apartments are the men, on the other the women. In each gallery there are thirty-two cells which are arched, boarded and wain-

And all the patients, have a paper of rules and directions delivered to them at their admission, at the bottom of which Hand these words.—

Is. B. “Having been once cured, or discharged for any other caitfe out of this hospital, you never can be ado mitted again.”

Therefore the language of this institution is, like that of our blessed Lono—“ Go and Jin no more” and like him it adds* * Itjl a *worJe thing happen unto thee,”

Beth l*m Hospital.

St. Luke's Hospital.

T 2

footed

St. Luke’s

Hospital.

1 i

Remarks.

footed (ten feet four inches by eight, and thirteen feet three inches high) and each cell has a window outward, and a large aperture over the door, with inside wire lattice to the iron bars, to prevent accidents, and (very properly) no shutters. The cells were very clean and not offensive. The boxes on which the beds or draw lie are on a declivity, and have false bottoms. The cells open into galleries fifteen feet wide; and in each gallery was a vault, which was not offensive. There are many cisterns on the top of the house, which are filled by four machines or forking pumps, to supply the galleries with water. These machines coltfiioo. Here are large airing grounds for men and women: there is also a new, but very inconvenient bath.

Every patient is admitted till cured, or for one year, and must bring a security from two householders of £100, to take him out at the end of that term. If within the year he be dismissed as cured, and relapses within two months, he may be readmitted on the former petition. At the end of the year the patients who are not cured, are put on the lift of incurables. Here are forty incurables, who are called boarders, for each of whom their friends pay five j,hillings a week.

Here are very properly two fitting rooms in each gallery, one for the quiet, the other for the turbulent; but I could wilh that the noisy and turbulent were in a separate part of the house, by day and by night. I have mentioned the propriety of hair beds for the sick, and in such houses as this they are peculiarly necessary, because water runs through them.

Several women were calm and quiet, and at needle-work with the matron. A chapel would be proper here for the advantage of recovering patients, as I have seen in such houses abroad.

Though this noble hospital was neat and clean, yet I greatly prefer one at Constan-tinople, which is described in this volume, and the Dol-buis at Amsterdam, which is particularly mentioned in my former publications. Sept. 25, 1788, Men 54. Women 108.

I shall beg leave to subjoin a few general obfiervations concerning defeSls in the London hospitals, premising, that I fear the public attention to them is much relaxed of late years, in consequence of the newer establishments of dispensaries, which have multiplied so as to injure the funds of the older institutions.

The securities and fees required at admission into many of the hospitals bear hard upon the poor, and absolutely exclude many of those who have the greatest occasion for charitable relief. The nurses’ fees in particular open a door to many impositions.

The visits of Governors are too often only a matter of form, the visiter hurrying out of an offensive room, and readily acquiescing in the reports of nurses &c. Hence I apprehend, many instances of neglect in surgeons and their dressers, as well as other officers, go unnoticed.

I have never found any clergyman administering consolation and admonition to the sick; and prayers are usually attended by very few.

White-walhins;

m

Sect. VIII.

LONDON.

White-walhing the wards is seldom or never practised; and injurious prejudices against waihing floors, and admitting fresh air, are suffered to operate.

Bathing, either hot or cold, is scarcely ever used; I suppose, because it would give trouble to the attendants.

There are no convalescent wards or fitting rooms, so that patients are often turned out very unfit for work, or the common mode of living.

The admission of great quantities of beer for the patients from ale-houses, by alledged, or pretended orders from the faculty, is a great and growing evil. Every -proper article of diet should be provided by the hospital, and no other, on any account, be admitted.

It is a pity that for want of attention to these circumstances, such noble institutions should be rendered of much less public utility, than was intended by their generous founders and supporters.

I gave in my lad: Publication some hints on the Construction and Regulation of Hospitals, mod of which were collected from the observations I had made abroad: I shall now take the liberty of repeating them, with a few additional observations.

The situation of an Infirmary or Hospital should be on elevated ground, near a stream of water, and out of a town.—The wards, if only one for each sex, to be from twenty-five to thirty feet high, arched, and without apartments over them; otherwise, the building to confitt of only two fiories beside the cellars, and the area extended as far as necessary upon this plan, that the inconvenience of higher rooms may be avoided. The first: floor raised four or five steps from the ground, and the afeent made easy to the entrance. The wards fifteen feet high to the cielings, and distinct ones for medical and chirurgical patients. Two doors to each ward, one of them iron latticed, or canvass. Staircase of stone, spacious, convenient and easy, as in Italy, Marseilles, Malta Sec. No room to contain more than eight beds. The windows lofty and opposite, or large circular apertures (as at Leeds infirmary) opening into passages not less than fix feet wide: hafps and staples to the upper sashes to prevent their being shut at improper times: one of the windows should open from the deling to the floor, either as folding doors, or like those at Guy’s hospital: a stone gallery for more readily opening and shutting the windows, as in the Italian hospitals. The cielings lathed ard plastered, and proper apertures in them. The fire-places in the middle of the longer fide of the wards: the beds in Ipacious recesses, as at Toledo and Burgos; or to each bed a recess with curtains as at Genoa, Savona &c. The bedsteads iron, painted, and with a ferew, that the backs may be easily raised or lowered: the beds on varnished boards or laths, with hair mattresses. In each ward a cittern, balin and towel for the patients. Vaults on the outside of the wards, and water closets, as at Guy’s hospital: for every improvement that may render such places less offensive, should be carefully adopted in all houses containing a number of inhabitants. Airy rooms and refeftories for convalescent patients: one spare and unfur-

vished

141

Remarks.

14*

HERTFORDSHIRE.

Home Circuit.

Remarks,

Hertford

County

Gaol.

Bride-

WELLS.

nished ward; each ward to be taken in succession, and called the Ipare ward. The kitchen, wash-house, brew-house and bake-house, out of the house: but if the kitchen be in the house, it should be lofty, as in Christ’s hospital (not under ground) and the entrance through the servants’ hall. A convenient bath, with an easy descent into it. A piazza and spacious walk to induce patients to take the air and exercise. The wards washed once a week—fcraped and lime-whited at least once a year. (The machines at Northviich for supplying the salt mines with fresh air, being on a simple construction, would be of admirable use in hospitals, especially if situated in ctofe and confined places.) The patients washed at their admission in the cold or warm bath, and to conform strictly to the rules of nicety and cleanliness.

It may be proper to suggest, that many of these ideas may be adopted with equal propriety in the conjlruflion and regulation o(poor houses.

HOME CIRCUIT.

HERTFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HERTFORD.

The windows are neither sufficiently large nor lofty, and the felons’ day-rooms are too small: not white-walked. On their fide garnish is abolished; but the debtors have the allurance to write it up, and no restraint of liquors is fixed by the magistrates. Some years ago, complaint being made to Judge Forjler that the two shillings and sixpence a week was not paid to the allize convicts, he reprimanded the under sheriff; since which it has been regularly paid, and charged in his bill of cravings. No bath, though the surgeon observed the propriety of it in gaol-fevers.* Gaoler’s salary now £180. No licence 1787, Oct. 29, Debtors 8. Felons &c. 3.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

HERTFORD. This prison adjoins to the borough gaol. The county gaoler the keeper of both. No alteration. No fire-place in the bridewell: the prisoners always confined: no employment. The men at night 1 saw chained to a post in the dungeon.

1787, Oft. 29, Prisoners in the bridewell 3. In the gaol, none. HITCHIN. A bad prison: not secure: no apartment for the keeper.

1787, Oft. 29, No Prisoners.

* I hope I shall be excused repeating what I formerly mentioned; that in the interval of two of my viiits to the old gaol, the gaol-fever prevailed, and carried off seven or eight prisoners, and two turnkeys; that I was then well informed, that a prisoner brought out as dead, from one of the dungeons, on being at'ajbed under the pimp, shewed signs of life, and soon after recovered. Since this, I have known other inflames of the fame kind.

Sr. ALBANS

Home Circuit.

ESSEX.

143

Sr. ALBANS BOROUGH GAOL.

The only alteration is one room added for debtors: no fire-place: no court. Keeper’s salary now £20.

1788, Aug. 12, One Criminal.

The Liberty Gaol. Much improved. Now a court with water, a day-room and four bed-rooms are added: not white-washed. The three former offensive rooms not used. Keeper’s salary ^40 in lieu of the tap.

1788, Aug. 12, Felons, &c. 6.

The Bridewell for the Liberty. No alteration for the better.

1788, Aug. 12, No Prisoners.

ESSEX.

COUNTY GAOL at CHELMSFORD.

The debtors’ court and apartments are convenient and spacious. They have very properly a large day-room and work-room. Though the greatest number were in the former, yet in the latter some weavers and Ihoe-makers were at work. The felons’ court is also spacious, and paved with flat (tones; and I hope will never be spoiled with cells or any other buildings. In a narrow court on the women’s fide, there are eight new cells. The women are in the infirmary, which has never been furnished with beds &c. for the sick. The roof of this prison is now covered with copper, it having been laid too flat, which is the fault of almost all the new prisons. Allowance 1 '-lb. of bread, and a quart of small beer, for which the county pays the keeper 3d. a day. Transports have the is. 6d. a week. The table of fees, the clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners hung up. The gaol has been white-washed and is clean. No bath. Acquitted prisoners are kept in irons till the judge leaves the town, unless the fees to, the clerk of the crown be paid. Forty convicts here (some of whom had been under sentence of transportation three or four years) regularly receive the king’s allowance of is. 6d. a week. In many other gaols the convicts have only the county allowance; and several gaolers have observed, that when released after long confinement, they seldom live above a year or two. Here is a better contrivance for the execution of criminals than that at Newgate. The hooks and eyes being fixed in the wall, the scaffolding is easily placed; and, by a simple contrivance, the platform falls back, and the criminals are left hanging. I have now no complaint of the neglect of the chaplain’s duty; but I could wish that here, and in all county gaols, those gentlemen would note down every time of their attendance in a book kept for the purpose, for the inspection of the magistrates; as is done in some hospitals. — Gaoler’s salary £280 in lieu of the tap.

1787, Dec. 6, Debtors j 1. Felons &c. 36. Transports 40.

St.

Alban’s

Chblms-

FCt*. d

County

Gaol.

COUNTY

1-4+

ESSEX.

Home Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

Bride- CHELMSFORD. No alteration in this unhealthy prison. Prisoners always locked up. Employment., spinning and carding wool: prisoners have none of the profit; consequently, little work is done; especially in winter. Allowance, i~lb. of bread and a quart of small beer, for which the keeper is allowed 31i. a day.—There were several sick objects on the floors. All the men lay in one ward: the sick complained to me that they were disturbed and deprived of sleep by the noise of the others. At the same time I found that one of the two sick rooms, for the fake of a small emolument, was filled with the arms of the militia. Keeper’s salary £30.

1787, Dec. 26, Men 23. Women 7.

COLCHESTER. The Castle, the property of the late Charles Cray Esq. was formerly the county gaol. No alteration: but the well of fine water is now opened, for the convenience of the prisoners.

1787, Feb. 26, Prisoners 5.

NEWPORT. No alteration, but allowance now 1 \.lb. of bread, and a quart of small beer, for which the keeper receives of the county 31/. a day. Women still continue in a room on the men’s fide. Court not paved. Allowance for straw only fi a year. Prison not clean: has been white-washed but once. Employment, spinning jersey; but, the county having all the profit, little work is done. In the State of the Prisons, I mentioned the propriety of a latticed partition (or pound) before the keeper’s door; and now there is one (five feet by four and a half) but it was not made till the keeper and his family had been cruelly used by several of the prisoners, who rushed out at the time of locking up.

1787, Dec. 5, Prisoners 13.

BARKING. No alteration in the two rooms. In that for men (fifteen feet by ten and a half and only seven high) there have been lately seven prisoners, and some of them sick. At the back of the prison is the keeper’s garden, and he has a large barn and yard.

1788, Aug. 20, Prisoners 2.

COLCHESTER TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1787, Feb. 26, Petty Offenders 3.

HARWICH TOWN GAOL.

No alteration. Windows towards the street.

1787, Feb. 25, No Prisoners,

COUNTY

Home Circuit.

KEN T.

145

COUNTY GAOL at MAIDSTONE.

Here are many good alterations. The Debtors' Prison is new and separate; and the gaoler’s house is now between that and the felons’ prison. The rooms that were lately the debtors’ on the first floor, and also their court, are now occupied by the felons; yet they are still crowded and have too litde air. The infirmary, which consists of two close rooms, is in one of the courts. No bath. Two years ago, about twenty died of the gaol-fever. The thick wooden bars in the windows of the wards greatly obstrutt the air and light. Divine service is still performed on the staircase. Several windows both of the debtors and felons are towards the street, which occasion many inconveniences to the neighbourhood. Here are no rules respecting the quantity of liquors which may be admitted for the debtors: indeed rules would be almost useless where the windows are so situated. Debtors and felons have the county allowance of bread and beer, and the assize convicts have also the half crown a week. Some of the prisoners express their desire of having their bread allowance increased, though they were to have less beer.

The Gaol was clean. I observed that the irons on the felons were very light, which induces them to use exercise; and I am persuaded that a good gaoler can more easily manage his prisoners by humane attention than by severity and heavy irons. Gaoler’s salary £300 in lieu of the tap.

Here was a prisoner under sentence of death in one of the dungeons. The gaoler agreed with me in opinion, that execution should not be deferred longer than ten days after the sentence.

1788, July 15, Debtors 31. Felons &c. 80. viz.

Felons 4. Assize Convicts 38. Session Convicts 23. Fines ij.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

MAIDSTONE. No alteration. Prison not clean: not white-washed for some years: fowls in the court: no coverlets to the beds. Employment, beating and (pinning hemp. Allowance, a half quartern loaf in two days. Many prisoners in irons.

1788, July 15, Prisoners 25.

DARTFORD. No alteration. Only one room for women whether sick or well: no coverlets: employment, beating hemp. Allowance, a twopenny loaf a day (weight 19J0Z.) and a halfpenny in money.

1788, July 15, Prisoners 9.

ROCHESTER CITY GAOL.

No alteration. There are three windows towards the street. The keeper said “ The “ liberality of the public is so great, we cannot keep the prisoners sober. Persons have “ even desired to be confined, to have the liberty of the begging grate.”

1788, July 15, No Prisoners.

U

Maid-

stone

County

Gaol.

Bride-

wells.

Rochester

City

Gaol.

COUNTY

SUSSEX.

Home Circuit.

146

Horsham

County

Gaol.

Petworth

County

Bridewell

Chi-

chester

City

Gaol.

COUNTY GAOL at HORSHAM.

No alteration in this well conduced prison. The debtors and felons are quite separate. Each debtor is permitted to fend for one quart of beer, or one pint of wine a day; but the felons are not permitted to have any beer, or wine.—Allowance to felons two pounds of fine white bread n day. All the prisoners were in health: each had his room and proper bedding; and fuel is allowed by the county. No infirmary: attention to clean-liness and order has hitherto prevented the want of it. Assize convicts are clothed, and have the is. 6d. a week, with which they buy meat, coffee, tea, cocoa, milk &c. From the gaoler’s house there is not a proper view of the courts. His salary, £100. Each of the three turnkeys has half a guinea a week paid by the county. Chaplain Rev. Mr. JameJon-, salary ,£50. Service every day. Surgeon Mr. Dubbings: his salary £i 5.*

1788, July 10, Debtors 16. Felons 4. Convicts 11.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

PETWORTH. A new prison in an airy situation. The rooms are on two stories, over arcades, sixteen on each floor, thirteen feet three inches by ten feet, and nine feet high. Each room has two doors (one iron grated) an iron bedstead, straw mattress and bolder, two blankets and a quilt. The staircases are done with iron rails, and all the windows close glazed, not made to open. There are two infirmaries on each floor, the only rooms which have chimneys. The chapel is in the centre, and has thirty-two pews, each three feet by two feet two inches: the fides so lofty that the prisoners cannot fee one another, though they are all in the view of the chaplain. The keeper’s house is detached, and has only one closet window towards the prison. Allowance two pounds of bread a day. No employment. There are many good rules in the keeper’s book, which I hope will be printed and hung up. Keeper’s salary £50, and half a guinea a week to the turnkey. No fees. Surgeon’s salary £15.

1788, July 9, Prisoners 5.

CHICHESTER CITY GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

A new prison, having the fame small court which belonged to the Ead-gate gaol. Allowance three-pence a day in bread.

1788, July 9, Prisoners. 2.

' On converting with the surgeon on the health of those prisoners who have no fermented liquors, he laid, “ I have never seen any prisoners intoxicated fmee I have attended the new gaol; but I have seen the former gaoler, who had the tap, and eight or nine debtors drunk in the kitchen.” The gaoler told me, that he had a debtor who was so addicted to the use of /pints, that he thought he should die if they were refused him; but after his discharge, he had several times called to acknowledge the benefit he had received from entirely breaking him of that habit. — The gaoler all’o alferted, that the felons after a few weeks were evidently miprerved in health by their rejlrUHcn from ail spirituous and fermented liquors, and remained in prison perfectly well.

COUNTY.

Home Circuit.

SURREY.

147

COUNTY GAOL in SOUTHWARK..

No alteration. Gaoler’s salary £200 in lieu of the tap. The allowance in bread three-halfpence a day (weight 16 oz.). Here is still the fame dreadful afiemblage of criminals. Some of the common fide debtors’ rooms look into the felons’ court. One cannot but lament that so opulent a county should have such a close and ill conflxufted gaol. I wish that in all county gaols there were a reparation of sexes, and five entire divisions — debtors — assize felons — quarter session prisoners — transports — fines.

1787, March 28, Debtors 32. Felons &c. 98.

- - Nov. 4, - - 28. ... 63.*

1788, Aug. 26, - - 26. - - - 55. viz.

Master’s-Side Debtors 14. Common-Side, Men 10. Women 2. Felons &c. for Assize 8, for Quarter Session 5. Fines 9. Transports 33.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

St. GEORGE’S FIELDS. No alteration; but some loads of gravel or dirt brought by order of the magistrates into the men’s and women’s courts, to be removed in balkets from one fide to the other. This reminds me of what I once heard a keeper say, “ I endeavour to flagtte and teaze my prisoners by making them saw wood with a blunt saw.” The prison not white-washed. No straw or blankets allowed by the county. Keeper, a sheriffs officer, has one woman debtor in confinement.

1787, March 28, Men 24. Women 15.

1788, Aug. 26, - - 27. - - 7.

KINGSTON upon Thames. The prison very dirty: not white-washed. Fowls in the courts. No employment, but an order similar to that at the bridewell in St. George’s Fields, for those prisoners that are committed to hard labour. Allowance, a three halfpenny loaf a day to each prisoner (weight 14oz.). Though there were only twenty-four prisoners, yet the baker allured me he had delivered thirty-three loaves that day, and on every day in the preceding week. — Some of the prisoners had bedding or straw: several of them paid yd. others ij. for the straw on which they

* Fifty of the felons in 1787 were convicts for transportation, sentenced in 1783 and the following years. These poor wretches lay almost periihing in the gaol, and had only the allowance of 11 d. a day in bread, and the precarious charity of a little meat, broth &c. collefled from the neighbours who knew their distress. Many had worn out their shoes, (lockings and (hirts, and had hardly clothes to cover them; and by being forced to live in idleness, and alfociating together, were driven to acts of desperation. Such dreadful nurseries have been a principal cause of the increased number of crimes, and the (hocking destruction of our fellow creatures. I am persuaded this would have been in a great measure prevented, if penitentiary houses had been built on the f.dutary /pot at Illington fixed on by Dr. Fothergill and myself: the gentlemen whose continual oppofttion defeated the design, and adopted the expensive, dangerous and destructive scheine of transportation to Botany Bay, I leave to their own reflections upon their conduct.

U 2 lay;

S u tt r. e y County Gaol..

Bat DEWELLS.

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit.

14?

Bride-

wells.

Kingston

Town

Gaol.

Ayles-

BU R.Y

County

Gaol.

lay; others had none. The garnish still continued, is. (sd. Clauses against: spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary £45 in lieu of the tap.

1788, July 13, Prisoners 24.

GUILDFORD. This bridewell not white-washed for some years: only one small day-room (ten feet two inches by seven feet) for men and women: the court paved with sharp flints: a pig fty in the court. Allowance, three halfpenny worth of bread (weight 1 j oz. and badly made): no straw or bedding: employment, removing gravel as in the two other bridewells: the work-room locked up. Keeper’s salary, now £45 in lieu of the tap. (His son keeps a public house near).

1788, July 11, Prisoners 8.

KINGSTON TOWN GAOL.

No alteration: out of repair: not white-washed: a window towards the street; which I found locked up, because the prisoners were intoxicated. Keeper, no salary: has a licence for beer.

1788, July 13, Debtors 4.

NORFOLK CIRCUIT. BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at AYLESBURY.

On the debtors’ fide are great improvements. They have now a separate court, and several good rooms. The felons have another day-room; but their fide is close, particularly the bed-rooms, and they mult ever be liable to the gaol-fever; the late gaoler died of it. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up: no infirmary. Allowance to both debtors and felons 1 Lib. of bread a day, and soup twice a week. Bedding and coals allowed also by the county. Transports have not the is. 6d. a week. Sixteen felons lately broke out: confinement in separate cells would prevent such escapes. Gaoler’s salary £ 170, out of which he finds the prisoners soup.

1787, Nov. 29, Debtors ti. Felons &c. 24.

The following Rules for the Gaol were hung up.

BUCKS. MIDSUMMER SESSIONS, 1785.

1. Every prisoner, whether debtor or felon, shall be allowed one pound and a half of good bread per day, to

be weighed to them on delivery, by weights to be provided by the county.

2. Every prisoner, whether debtor or felon, to receive on Sundays, and Thursdays, a pint of thick llrong soup.

3. No llrong liquors to be admitted into the prison, except wine, and strong beer or porter; the wine at the

rate of one pint per day for each person, or one quart of llrong beer or porter.

4. The

Norfolk Circuit.

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

*49

4. The cells to be washed every day, from the first day of May, to the first day of OCiober, and every day by the prisoners in their turn, upon penalty of losing half a pound of bread, and their soup: and on every Sunday, all prisoners to attend chapel on the fame penalty.

5. Every attempt to escape, for riot, or improper conduit, to be punished by confinement in the dark cells, at the discretion of the gaoler, on the allowance of one pound of bread only.

6. The cells to be opened from fix to eight, from the first of May, to the first of October; and from day-break, to four o’clock in winter.

7. Two bushels of coals, for three days, to be allowed to debtors from the fifteenth of October, to the first of

April; and the fame to the felons.

8. Every part of the prison to be white-washed once in every year, after the summer assize.

9. All prisoners after conviction, except those ordered for execution, are to work in the same manner as those confined in the bridewell, upon penalty of losing half a pound of bread, and the soup.

10. No gaming to be allowed in the prison, and no garnish to be taken of a prisoner, under any pretence whatsoever.

11. No fees to be taken by the gaoler, of any fort or kind, either from the felons, or debtors, and the bedding to be provided for the latter by the gaoler gratis,

12 All persons going into the prison are to be searched by the gaoler, if he thinks fit, to prevent the

introduction of liquors or tools.

13 No wife or child of the debtors or felons to deep in the prison.

By the Court,

G. R. Minjbull, Clerk of the Peace for the County of Bucks.

AYLESBURY. The new bridewell adjoins to the gaol. The wall of the men’s court

is not secure. Each prisoner has a room (nine feet by eight and a half) and proper

bedding. The Marquis of Buckingham kindly interested himself in the alterations both in this prison, and the county gaol. No allowance of coals. County gaoler is keeper. The prisoners here wished that the magistrates had made rules also for them.*

1787, Nov. 29, Prisoners 10.

The County Bridewell at Newport Pagnel was taken down in 1786, and petty offenders are now sent to the new county bridewell at Aylesbury.

BUCKINGHAM TOWN GAOL.

This gaol built by Lord Viscount Cohham, consists of the keeper’s apartment, two rooms for debtors, and two for criminals: no dungeons, j-

1788, Feb. 17, No Prisoners.

* It may be proper to premise, that though I visited all the county gaols in England, yet it is to be understood I did not in these late tours take all the county bridewells, as the attention of gentlemen has been of late so much exerted for the improvement of them, and as it was not the immediate objeCl of my intended publication.

f I am sorry I shall have occasion to mention so often dungeons in which prisoners are confined; for I always then mean, fubterrantous dark cells.

Ayles-

bury

Gaol,

Bucking-

ham

Town

Gaol.

COUNTY

BEDFORDSHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit.

ijo

Bed for d County Gaol.

Bridewell

Hunting-

don

County

Gaol.

COUNTY GAOL at BEDFORD.

No alteration in this prison. The men and women felons associate together: their night-rooms are two dungeons. Only one court for debtors and felons; and no apartment for the gaoler. Convicts have not the is. 6d. a week. A table of fees, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners are hung up; but rules and orders, and the clauses against spirituous liquors are not hung up: no infirmary: no bath: prison not kept so clean as in die former keeper’s time. Coals allowed both to debtors and felons. Chaplain to the gaol and bridewell, the Rev. Mr. Crowe-, his salary ^40. Gaoler’s salary £60 in lieu of the tap. The county proposes building a new gaol; a proper spot near the river, and not far from the sessions house, has been fixed on for that purpose.

1787, Nov. 30, Debtors 6. Felons &c. 6.

1788, Aug. 9, - - 6. - - 7.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

BEDFORD. A new day-room, with a chimney, and sick room over it: the prison clean but not w'hite-washed. Allowance, a half quartern loaf a day, and coals both in winter and summer. Employment, beating hemp; prisoners have their earnings. Keeper’s salary £10. No fees. The court should be paved, the walls raised, and a pump set down.

1787, Nov. 30, Prisoners 5. 1788, Aug. 9, Prisoners 7.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HUNTINGDON.

The gaoler’s salary is increased to £yo in lieu of the tap. Allowance, four half quartern loves a week (weight of each in 1787 ilb. 6£32:.): convicts have not the half crown a week. No allowance for coals: on the felons’ fide no fire-place. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. No chaplain has been provided since the difmilfion of the zealous Mr. Brock in 1776: though I would hope from the books I found the prisoners reading, that some of them are well disposed.

* I shall here beg leave to make a short digression, in order to recommend to notice and imitation a Work-house situated in the adjacent parish of Carrington. This is a mat building, with lofty rooms ventilated by oppofitt windows, having detacher, an infirmary, and various offices, as wash-house, bake-house, cow-house &c. together with a good garden and drying ground. The poor in it are neatly clad; and their diet, employment, and treatment in sickness and health, are all regulated with drift order and humane attention. The children are kept clean, and made cheerful and happy, in constant employment, yet not to the neglect of their instrufltcn in what regards their befl inter efts. It is to the unabating zeal and assiduity of a young lady, that this parish is indebted for the exemplary management of its poor.

At

Norfolk. Circuit.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

At my last visit, the hemp-dresser’s house at the back of the prison was taken down, and many alterations were malting; yet (being on a bad plan) it will not be a convenient prison.

1787, Dec. 3, Debtors 5. Felons &c. 11. Petty Offenders 7.

1788, Aug. 8, - - 4- - - - 9-

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

HUNTINGDON. A new prison in a low situation, though a riling ground is at the back of it. Here are two work-rooms and two bed-rooms, with a court for each sex; but no night-rooms for solitary confinement. The bed-rooms are too low, only seven feet nine inches. 1788, Aug. 8, Prisoners 2.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, CAMBRIDGE CASTLE.

A good sized court for debtors is made out of the castle yard; and a small court for felons: this I am persuaded is little used; for at my visits I found them locked up, as is generally the case where the keeper lives at a distance. The felons have no fire-place; their rooms are close and offensive, especially the inner room for women. Transports have not the two shillings and sixpence a week. Acquitted prisoners are confined till the judge leaves the town. Chaplain, the Rev. Mr. Holmes, his salary £45; twenty pound of it is paid by lord Hardwick. The gaoler’s salary is ^50.

1787, Sept. 29, Debtors 6. Felons &c. 3.

- - Dec. 5. - - 7. - - - 8.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

CAMBRIDGE. Here are now two courts; but that for men useless, not being secure. Allowance 1 \lb. of bread a day. Keeper has all the profit of the work. The prisoners make their straw into mats for bedding; no blankets are given by the county. 1787, Sept. 29, Prisoners 6. And Dec. 5, Prisoners 13.

CAMBRIDGE Town Gaol. No alteration. The fame miserable hole for criminals. At my last visit, the felon having the small-pox, the gaoler, though he has no salary, had humanely taken him into his house. 1787, Dec. 5, Debtors 2. Felon 1.

CAMBRIDGE Town Bridewell. No alteration. Prisoners have no use of the court. Allowance four pence on Sunday, and to the Tick, three-pence a day. The bedding improperly lies on the floors. Employment, spinning worsted: prisoners have what they earn. No allowance for coals, though more necessary where spinning is the only employment: but I have encouragement to hope that the present vice-chancellor will be so considerate as to make some allowance for coals, soap and other necessaries. No divine service. 1787, Dec. 5, Prisoners 9.

151

Hunting-

don

County

Gaol.

Cou NTY Bridewell

Cam-

bridge

Castle.

County BriDEWELL

Town

Gaol.

Town Bp. id EWELL

ELY

NORFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

»5-

Ely

Goal.

Bridewell

Norwich

Castle.

Bridewell

ELY GAOL.

N o alteration. The felons’ court not secure; but water being now laid in, I am persuaded, from the humanity of the bishop, they will have the use of it. Allowance now i^lb. of bread. Neither clauses against spirituous liquors, nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners hung up. The gaol not white-washed for three years. Transports have not the two shillings and sixpence a week.—The iron bars and ring still remain in the room in which criminals were, formerly, cruelly confined. Gaoler’s salary only £10.

1787, Dec. 4, Debtors 2. Felons &c. j.

ELY Bridewell. No alteration.' The gaoler is keeper; his salary 10.

1787, Dec. 4, One Prisoner, and One Lunatic.

NORFOLK.

COUNTY GAOL, NORWICH CASTLE.

The gaoler’s salary is £120 in lieu of the tap. All the apartments were clean. The felons were clothed in an uniform.—The convicts broke out in 1787, while the gaoler was at Thetford. This shews the impropriety of having the assize at a distance from the county gaol; and also the necessity of the nocturnal separation of prisoners. Convicts now have not the is. 6d. a week, which the gaoler said they had a few years ago.

1787, Sept. 18, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 26.

1788, Sept. 11, - - 20. - - - 20.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

WYMONDHAM. The old prison is laid to the keeper’s house, and two wings are built for the prisoners, containing thirteen arched cells, some of which are fifteen feet and a half by fix and a half, and nine feet and a half high, which open into a passage four feet and a half wide. Every man has his room, in which is a bed and proper bedding; here also, he works, beating heckling, and spinning hemp.

There is also a mill for beating hemp and cutting logwood. — Here is an infirmary; and a chapel in which the Rev. Mr. Beevor kindly officiates every other Sunday. The prisoners have no use of the large court, but for walhing themselves at the pump in the morning. The rooms were clean, and none of the prisoners in irons. Keeper’s salary £61 and one fourth of the prisoners’ earnings.

A lift of the prisoners is made out for the inspection of the magistrates at every quarter sessions, containing—their names — crimes or offences — time when committed— by whom committed—for what time committed, and punishments to be inflicted—ages—distinftion of sexes — trade or occupation — employment—behaviour — total earnings — and expense of maintenance.

The

Norfolk Circuit. NORFOLK.

The diet table hung up; which is as follows. Breakfast; one penny loaf, household bread, every day. Dinner; Sunday, Htmway’s ox cheek: Monday, a penny loaf: Tuesday, potatoes: Wednesday, boiled pease: Thursday, a penny loaf: Friday, potatoes: Saturday, boiled pease.

They are allowed to rest half an hour at breakfast, an hour at dinner, and half an hour at supper; though no supper is given them. No other liquor than water is permitted, except in case of sickness, and when ordered by the surgeon. The weight of the penny loaf was 1302:. The allowance is too small for those who are confined several months, and kept constantly to work. They should be permitted to purchase milk and bread, at least, out of that part' of their earnings to which they are entitled by Act of Parliament. Several young men seemed as if they could not go out so fit for labour, as they came in.

1788, Sept. 12, Men 12. Women 4.

I have been the more particular in my account of this prison, as it affords one of the best examples of the proper management of a house of correction, so as to render it a place of reformation for the idle and dissolute. It is to the unremitted attention of a neighbouring magistrate. Sir Thomas Beevor, that the public is indebted for the improvements in this house, and the strict execution of its salutary regulations. The other bridewells in. this county, I understand, are on the fame plan.

NORWICH CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

The gaoler’s salary is ,£65; and now no illegal fee or gratuity is paid to the sheriffs. No free ward for poor debtors. The chamber rent is high: the price fixed over the door of each room as in the castle. The gaol very dirty: the rules not enforced. No proper reparation of the sexes: this and several other defeats I intimated to the magistrates who met me here in 1787, but there has been no alteration since, except in the infirmary.

The gaol-delivery for this populous city being only once a year, prisoners are often confined before their trials ten or eleven months. The Mayor, Sheriffs and Citizens have lately petitioned his Majesty, that the assizes may be at Norwich, twice a year. Surely there will be no denial to the justice and humanity of this petition. A county meeting was also held on July igth, 1788, for obtaining the removal of the Lent assize from Thetford to Norwich.

1787, Sept. 19, Debtors 8. Felons &c. 20.

1788, Sept. 11, - - 16. - - - 10.

NORWICH CITY BRIDEWELL.

The magistrates visit this prison once a fortnight, and have been so considerate as to order that no prisoners should lodge in the dungeons. Several new cells are added, in which the prisoners work. Their employment is beating hemp, spinning, and cutting logwood. The talk for cutting logwood is 5 6 lb. a day. The keeper’s salary is £30,

X and

i

*53

Wymon d-

H AM

County Bridewei. l

Norwich

Gaol.

CitV

Bridewell

•54

NORFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

Norwich City Bridewell

Norfolk

Hospital.

Poor-

houses.

Thktford

Town

Gaol.

Yarmouth Town Gaol.

and id. in the Chilling of the prisoners’ earnings. In 1788, I found two persons (committed for bastardy) playing at cards in the gaoler’s kitchen, in the middle of the day. All cards and dice should be JlriSily prohibited in prisons.

1787, Sept. 18, Prisoners 11. 1788, Sept. 11, Prisoners 12.

The rules, and orders, which were hung up, are to be observed, and enforced at the Houses of Cot-region, in the County of Norfolk. These rules are in fourteen sections, but the first thirteen, being similar to those at Bury, and the fourteenth as the sixteenth order in that paper, X here omit them; as I shall give them under the article of Bury St. Edmund’s.

The Norfolk and Norwich Hospital.

This spacious infirmary was perfectly neat and clean: the beds not crowded: the wards quiet and fresh; and the dietary hung up. A notable matron. There are about ninety beds: at my last visit fifty-two were occupied. If I might hint at a defect in an hospital which does honour to the governors, I would mention the impropriety of the walh-house being within the house, and the preservation of the urine as a perquisite of the nurses.

In this city there are two large poor-houfies; and a new and good institution of ijtinning schools for children of both sexes, where they spin in the Scotch way.*

I visited also the hospital for aged persons, which was formerly a monastery, and given to die city by king Henry the Eighth. The house and lands are appropriated for an asylum to the aged of both sexes. Here were eighty-six persons who lodge in enclosed beds in halls, where I found all the windows shut. Some of them said they suffered this inconvenience from the obstinacy of one or two who lay in the fame hall. It would be much better if each person had a room with a window, as at the hospital for old people at Edinburgh, page 77.

THETFORD TOWN GAOL.

No alteration since 1781. The dungeon still used in the assize week. Keeper has now no licence; salary not settled.

1788, Sept. 12, No Prisoners.

YARMOUTH Town Gaol. The straw-room is made into four cabins (eight

feet by fix) for the nocturnal separation of felons. The gaoler’s salary is not advanced; and though he has no licence, he fells liquors as usual.

1787, Sept. 21, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 14.

1788, Sept. 9, - - 1. - - - 9.

A mnilar institution was lately established by the Provo]? s Lady at Dunbar. There I saw about forty children, clean and neat, and cheerfully spinning with both hands,

YARMOUTH

Norfolk Circuit. SUFFOLK.

YARMOUTH Town Bridewell, in the work-house yard. No alteration.

1788, Sept. 9, One Apprentice Boy, employed in knitting fishing-nets.*

SUFFOLK.

COUNTY GAOL at IPSWICH.

This prison as uiual, was very clean. The house is much quieter since the late AS-, the felons having only small beer: and the magistrates have properly ordered, that no debtor shall have more than one quart of beer in a day; to which order the gaoler and turnkey JlriSly adhere. In consequence of the AS, and similar regulations, I have found in several prisons, fewer debtors. Here the number of insolvent debtors, on an average, was formerly fifteen; of late, not more than nine; and now it is reduced to seven. The gaoler’s salary is now £zoo. The Rev. Mr. Brome is Hill assiduous in his attention to the prisoners; frequently weighing the bread, and making his reports to the magistrates: and he fees that a proper distribution is made of Mr. Pembertons charity. I was pleased with his observation, that he could not attribute the health and regularity of the prisoners in general, and their constant attendance at the chapel with great decency and devotion, to any other cause than to the total abolition of the tap.

1787, Sept. 27, Insolvent Debtors 7. Crown Debtors S. Felons &c. 18.

Mr. Blackburn is building a new county gaol, and the work is executed in the best manner.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

IPSWICH. No alteration. Prisoners all at work. Keeper has half their earnings.

The present keeper is a wool-comber, and has the fame salary as the former.

Allowance a twopenny loaf.

1787, Sept. 27, Prisoners 9.

* At several of my former visits to this town, I looked in at the poor-bou/e; but generally finding it in a dirty and sickly condition, and affording no subject for imitation, in conformity to my usual cullom, I passed it over in silence. 1 had now, however, the pleasure of finding this large house, containing three hundred and two persons, quite clean; the poor taking their meals in a clean and spacious hall, formerly a crowded bed-room; the old wooden tellers removed -, and the bed-rooms kept fresh and clean by walhing twice a week. In such houses much depends on a neat and notable matron, who has humanity joined with frmntfs, and good sense enough to be directed by those who have more knowledge than herself. Such a woman is a treasure in an hospital or parish work-house.

I also visited a ebaritj-fehool here, where I saw thirty fine healthy boys and twenty girls. I was pleased with a practice J observed of taking the boys to bathe in the sea, under the inspection of their mailer. This is done in a very orderly manner, three times a week, during the summer. Cold bathing, especially in salt-water, prevents many cutaneous and other diseases, promotes perspiration, and llrengthens and invigorates the whole habit, It would also be useful to encourage the children in learning to swim on these occasions.

X 2 WOODBRIDGE.

155

Yarmouth Tow k Bp,ioewell

Ipswich

County

Gaol.

Bridewells.

156

SUFFOLK.

Norfolk. Circuit.

County

Bridewells.

Bury St. Edmund’s Gaol.

Ipswich.

Bury St. Edmund’s Rules.

WOODBRIDGE. Here are several improvements. Six of the rooms are twelve feet by nine. The staircase now is stone, with iron rails. Keeper’s salary only £17.

1787, Sept. 26, Prisoners 10.

BECCLES. Many new rooms are added (twelve feet by leven) in which are bedsteads; but even these rooms were not clean. A good court, with a pump, is enclosed for men; and a smaller one for women. Spinning wheels and blocks are now provided by the magistrates: prisoners have no part of their earnings. Keeper’s salary £35. 1787, Sept. 15, Prisoners 3.

BURY St. EDMUND’S. This County Bridewell is lately built, near the town. There are fifteen rooms for men and seven for women, of a good size (ten feet by seven). The infirmaries are dole; and that for the men is badly situated. The work is not substantial; the wood being not seasoned, the planking on the sides of the rooms, and the floors are shrunk, so as to leave considerable interstices. (All such interstices are peculiarly improper in prisons and hospitals, as they afford a harbour for dirt, and are productive of ill scents). The outer wall is too low; and the prison is not secure. Keeper’s salary ^50.

1787, Sept. 28, Prisoners 3.

IPSWICH Town Bridewell. No alteration in the two rooms.

1787, Sept. 27, No Prisoners.

BURY St. EDMUND’S GAOL.

No alteration, but the gaol quiet, and the gaoler’s salary ^100 in lieu of the tap. Debtors and felons together as formerly, there being only one court. Here were several dogs belonging to the turnkey. I wish no dogs were permitted to be kept in prisons, but one for the gaoler.

1787, Sept. 28, Debtors 7. Felons &c. 17.

Rules, Orders, and Regulations,

To It thftrued and enforced at the House of Correction, for the Division of Bury St. Edmund’s,

in the County of Suffolk.

1. That the several persons committed to the house of correction, to be kept to hard labour, shall be employed (unless prevented by ill health) every day, (except Sundays, Christmas-Day, and Good-Friday) for so many hours as the day-light in the different seasons of the year will admit, not exceeding twelve hours, being allowed thereout to rest half an hour at breakfast, an hour at dinner, and half an hour at supper, and that the intervals shall be noticed by the ringing of a bell. Vide Rules prescribed hj the afi 22 Geo. III. c. 64.

)I. That the governor of the house of correction shall adapt the various employments directed by the justices, at their quarter sessions, to each person, in such manner as shall be suited to his or her strength and ability, regard being had to age and sex. — Vide act above cited.

III. That

Norfolk Circuit.

SUFFOLK.

157

in.

IV.

That the males and females shall be employed, and shall eat and be lodged in separate apartments, and jshall have no intercourse or communication with each other. — Vide ad above died.

That every person so committed shall be sustained with bread, and any coarse but wholesome food; but •persons under the care of the physician, surgeon, or apothecary, shall have such food and liquor as he shall direct. — Vide ad above cited.

Bury

St.

Edmund’s

Rules.

V. That the governor and such other persons (if any) employed by the jufHces to assist the governor, shall be very watchful and attentive in seeing that the persons so committed are constantly employed, during the hours of work; and if any person should be found remiss or negligent in performing what is required to be done by such person, to the belt of his or her power and ability; or shall wilfully waste, spoil, or damage the goods committed to his or her care, the governor shall punish every such person in the manner hereafter directed. — Vide ad above cited.

VI. That if any person so committed, shall refuse to obey the orders given by the governor, or shall be guilty of profane cursing or swearing, or of any indecent behaviour or expression, or of any assault, quarrel, or abusive words, to or with any other person, he or she shall be punished for the fame in the manner hereafter directed. — Vide ad above cited.

VII. That the governor to have power to punish the several offenders, for the offences herein before described,

by closer confinement, and shall enter in a book (to be kept by him for the inspection of the jufHces, at the quarter sessions, and the visiting justice or jufHces) the name of every person who shall be so punished, expressing the offence, and the duration of the punishment inflicted. — Vide ad above cited, laji of the schedule prescribed by the ad.

VIII. That the governor shall prevent all communication between the persons committed upon charges of

felony, or convicted of any theft or larceny, and the other prisoners. — Vide latter part of the frft fedton of Ad 22 Geo. III.

IX. That the governor shall employ in some work or labour (which is not severe) all such prisoners as are

kept and maintained by the county, though by the warrant of commitment such prisoner was not ordered to be kept to hard labour; and he shall keep a separate account of the work done, by prisoners of this description, and shall pay half of the net profits to them on their discharge, and not before.— Vide S. 7. of 22 Geo. III. c. 64.

X. That the governor, nor no one under him, shall fell any tiling used in the house, nor have any benefit or

advantage whatsoever, directly or indirectly, from the sale of any thing, under the penalty of ten pounds, and difmission from his employment; neither shall suffer any wine, ale, spirituous, or other liquors to be brought into the house, unless for a medical purpose, by a written order from the surgeon or apothecary usually attending there. — Vide S. 8. of 22 Geo. III. c. 64.

XI. That clean straw, to lodge upon, shall be allowed to each prisoner weekly, or oftener, if necefiaryj and the prisoners be obHged to sweep out and clean their rooms every day, and the dust and dirt be conveyed out of the prison daily.

XII. That no person, without permission of a visiting justice, or acting magistrate for the division, shall visit any prisoner; and all the prisoners shall, every night in the year, be locked up, and all lights extinguished at or before the hour of nine, and shall, during rest, be kept entirely separate, if rooms sufficient can be found for that purpose j and, during their labour, as much separate as their employment will admit of.—Vide S. 1.

XIII. That the governor may put handcuffs or fetters upon any prisoner who is refractory, or shews adifposition

to break out of prison; but he shall give notice thereof to one of the visiting justices, within forty-eight hours after the prisoner shall be so fettered, and he shall not continue such fettering longer thaa six days, without obtaining an order in writing from one of the visiting jufHces. — Vide S. 11. 22 of Geo. III.

t58

WARWICKSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

Bury

St.

Edmund’s

Rules.

Warwick

County

Gaol.

XIV. That every prisoner be obliged to walh his face and hands once, at leaf!, every day, before his bread be given to him.

XV. That each prisoner be allowed a clean ftiirt once in a week.

XVI. That the three prohibitory clauses of the 24 Geo. II. chap. 40. be painted on a board, and hung up in

some conspicuous part of the prison, together with a printed copy of the rules, orders, and regulations.

XVII. That male prisoners committed on charges of felony, or convicted of any theft or larceny, or other

misdemeanor, be, immediately upon their commitment, cloathed at the expence of the county in a dress, confining of jacket, trowsers, and stockings of yellow and blue; and also that due care be taken to bake, or fumigate, the cloathes of the prisoners of the above description, to be returned to them, when going to be tried, or when discharged.

MIDLAND CIRCUIT. s

WARWICKSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at WARWICK.

The felons were sadly crowded. Only one final) day-room for the men; and I saw thirty-two lie chained in a dungeon of twenty-two feet diameter, down thirty-one Heps; two of whom were ill of a flow fever.* There were three others in a room, very ill, and in irons. In two rooms (seven feet and a half by fix and a half) with apertures only in the doors, there lay fourteen women, almost fuffocaled. None of the women were now in irons. No infirmary: no bath. The for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. No coals, j- — Allowance, a three pound loaf every other day: it was good bread and full weight. Convicts have not the half crown a week. Acquitted prisoners are kept in irons till the judge leaves the town. Executions are at the gaoler’s expenfep The prisoners receive yearly, from a legacy, £1: io: o, the rent of a house in the town. Some of the felons complained of having been forced to pay 4,. id. for garnish, or be stripped of their clothes. This is one of die bad effects of the admission of beer. The debtors pay for garnish a much larger sum. Gaoler’s salary £60 in lieu of the tap. ]| 1788, Feb. 15, Debtors 31. Felons &c. 51. Women Convi£ts 9.

* Before the convicts went off, who lately were ordered to Plymouth, this dungeon was so crowded that some of the poor wretches were forced to Hand up (and take a fort of miserable night watch) while the others slept. From the aperture of this dungeon, which is three feet three inches wide (as from the door and the two funnels of the dungeon in the gaol at Stafford) the- Hearn of the prisoners’ breath comes out, in winter, like the finoke of a chimney.

f No coals being allowed, the women here, as in other gaols, fell even their bread to procure fuel.

X At Monmouth, Worcester, Warwick and most other county gaols, the expense of executions falls on the gaoler, though the charge is made by the sheriff in his bill of cravings. This I mention as an impofrtion on gaolers, which encourages them to indemnify themselves by impositions on their prisoners.

|[ If the tap had been sooner abolished, it might have saved the life of the late gaoler Roe, who died in the prime of life.

COUNTY

Midland Circuit.

WARWICKSHIRE.

‘59

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

"WARWICK. A new Prison is finished and occupied. There are separaue apartments, and courts with water, for men and women; and vagrants have, a court and apartments separate from the other prisoners. Allowance, as in the gaol. No coals: no employment at present; but a long room, ten feet and a half wide is provided, with looms, and other materials for work. 1788, Feb. 15, Prisoners 10.

COVENTRY CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration. The fame bad dungeons: no proper separation of debtors, or men and women felons. An old house adjoining belongs to the corporation. Allowance to felons now a twopenny loaf of houlehold bread (weight 1 lb. 702.) Gaoler’s salary ^50 in lieu of the tap. 1787, Dec. 19, Debtors io. Felons &c. 10.

CITY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. Very dirty: several of the keeper’s dogs in the rooms: court not lecure: no employment: no rooms for faulty apprentices: no allowance for coals. Bread the fame as at the Gaol. Keeper’s salary £10.

1787, Dec. 19, Prisoners 8.

BIRMINGHAM Town Gaol. The court is now paved with broad stones, but dirty with fowls. There is only one day-room for both sexes, over the door of which there is impudently painted Universal Academy. * Neither the act for preserving the health of prisoners, nor clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up. The gaoler has no salary, but has still a licence for beer. 1788, Feb. 14, Prisoners 13.

BIRMINGHAM Court Prison for Debtors. No alteration. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Court of conscience debtors for sums under 20s. are now discharged in twenty days. As liquors are introduced by visiters, and through the windows which are towards the street, most of these prisoners think their confinement little or no punishment. 1788, Feb. 13, Prisoners 7.-)-

ASTON Gaol, near Birmingham. Two damp dungeons down ten steps, and two rooms over them. — Court not secure. No water. Gaoler no salary: he keeps an ale-house. 1788, Feb. 15, Prisoners 5.

Warwick

County

Bridewell

Coventry

City

Gaol.

City

Bridewell

Firming

HAM.

Town

Gaol.

Birmingham

Court

Prison.

Aston

Gaol.

* There being no proper places for the confinement of idle and dissolute apprentices either here, or in the county bridewell at Warwick, the punishment for small offences is often omitted till unhappy youths are ruined. Some such young creatures I saw in the county gaol: and some of these boys I again met with on board the hulks. On this subject, fee a note at Leeds.

t In the poor-house at Birmingham, the cielings of both the old and new parts are too low; but the rooms were clean; the provisions good; and great attention was paid to the numerous inhabitants.

COUNTY

LEICESTERSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

160 LEICESTERSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at LEICESTER.

Leicester The debtors’ free ward is dill a dungeon; their beds are on bedsteads; but the felons

County Gaol. have only the county allowance of mats in their damp dungeons. One small court for debtors and felons. Keeper’s salary £200, out of which he is to give each prisoner three pints of small beer a day. The gaol now clean and quiet. Garnish abolished. I have said, the Castle-hill near the shire hall, is a fine spot for air and water. 1787, Oft. 25, Debtors 15. Felons &c. 14.

County Bridewells. COUNTY BRIDEWELLS. LEICESTER. No alteration: very clean as usual. Keeper’s salary £26: 5: 0; he pays land-tax and all other rates. Allowance, as in the county gaol, a fourpenny loaf every odier day (weight 3 lb. 1 oz.). 1787, Oft. 25, Prisoners 9. MELTON-MOWBRAY. Two rooms. No court: no water. Keeper’s salary only £4. 1788, Aug. 7, No prisoners.

Town Gaol. LEICESTER Town and County Gaol. No alteration. The felon complained of illness contrafted by lying on the damp brick floor with only a mat. Keeper no salary: the magistrates continue his licence for beer. 1787, Oft. 25, Debtor 1. Felon 1. County Infirmary at Leicester.

County Fn F I R -MARY. The ground floors are brick; the upper floors rough terrace; and none of the windows being open, the wards were very close. The under sashes are not moveable.

Derby County Gaol. DERBYSHIRE. COUNTY GAOL at DERBY. Gaoler’s salary is £140 in lieu of the tap. The prisoners are healthy, and the debtors are fewer since the sale of liquors has been abolished.* Here are three new cells (seven feet two inches by fix feet nine). Escapes by ladders on the outside are now prevented, by a few courses of loose bricks laid on the stone coping. The convicts in several gaols, not being removed for a long time after their sentence, become desperate, and often break out, as they did lately at this prison. There were two women in the bridewell * Mr. Simp/m, and feme of the mod reputable gaolers have said, “ it is a great happiness to this country that the taps are taken from the gaols,” and they are pleased with the alteration; but especially their wives, as the prisoners are more quiet and orderly. Other keepers have said, “ if my prisoners were to have no other drink but milk and water, they would enjoy better health.”— I add, *mv, persons of reputation will more readily accept the important trull.

part

Midland Circuit. DERBYSHIRE.

part unemployed; one of them in irons, which were taken off the next morning. The chaplain’s salary is now £35. No service on Sundays.

1787, Od. 22, Debtors 7. Felons &c. 11.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

CHESTERFIELD. No alteration but the court enlarged. The prison on too contracted a plan. No allowance: no water. This might be made a good prison, and a current from the river be easily brought through it.

1788, Aug. J, Prisoners 4.

TIDESWELL. An old house lately purchased. Prisoners were formerly confined in a room in the keeper’s public house. No allowance. Keeper’s salary £20.

1788, Aug. j, No Prisoners.

DERBY Town Gaol and Bridewell. Much improved. Here are three rooms for debtors, three for the bridewell, and two for felons, with bedsteads, ~straw and blankets; and a convenient court, water, and bath. Gaoler’s salary £40, and £5 for the bridewell.

1787, Od. 22, Debtor 1. Women Convids 2.

CHESTERFIELD Gaol. The old prison is not used. Under the new town hall, which was finished last year, two close rooms, opening into a passage five feet wide, are designed for the prison. No court.

1788, Aug. 5, No Prisoners.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at NOTTINGHAM.

At the entrance is this inscription on a board, “No ale, nor any sort of liquor fold widiin the prison.” Gaoler’s salary now £140. The prison too small. The debtors, in three rooms, pay is. a week each, though two in a bed. They who can pay only Gd. are in two rooms below, confined with such felons as pay is. a week. The other felons lie in two dark, offensive dungeons, down thirty-six steps, called pits, which are never white-walked. * Another dungeon in 1787 was occupied by a man sentenced to two years solitary confinement. The town transports and criminals are here confined with the county felons, which it may be hoped the magistrates will soon rectify. The room

* It is peculiarly necessary that all dungeons should be lime-whited twice a year: the lime being taken hot from the kiln, flacked in boiling water, and immediately used, frtjheni such damp places.

Y used

161

Derby.

Counts

BRIDEWELLS.

DeRBI

Town

Gaolw

Chester

field

Gaol.

Notting-

ham.

County

Gaol.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

162

Notting-

ham.

County

BRIDEWELL

Town

Gaol.

Town

Bridewell

County

Infirmary.

used for a chapel was too dole, though when I was there, only one debtor attended the service.—Allowance to felons now i-d. in bread and a halfpenny in money. Five of the felons were county, and five town convicts.

1787, Oft. 23, Debtors 9. Felons &c. 21.

1788, Aug. 6, - - 12. - - 19.

Committed by a Bishop’s Writ two neat women. One cannot but wilh, that the Reformation, or Resolution, had done away that power of imprisonment.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

SOUTHWELL. On a stone tablet over the door is this inscription; “ This house was built in the year 1656; and the new addition with the walls in 1787.” There is now the old dungeon, a day-room, and court for felons, andJeveral rooms and courts for the Jeparation of the prisoners of different denominations, and also of the sexes; and very properly three cells for the refractory. Water in all the courts. The prisoners were unemployed. Allowance three halfpennyworth of bread; weight 1 lb. Keeper’s salary £45. Fees 3s. 6d.

1788, Aug. 6, Prisoners 11.

NOTTINGHAM Town and County Gaol. No alteration. The building is too flight for a prison. Windows towards the street. In the room (called the bars) on the ground floor, the prisoners may take in what liquor they please. No rules are hung up. Debtors pay as. a week for a bed. The county gaoler is keeper.

1787, Oft. 23, Debtors 5. Petty Offender 1.

1788, Aug. 6, - - 5.

NOTTINGHAM Town Bridewell. Four rooms are added; and a court is endofed, to which the prisoners seldom have access. They were all locked up and unemployed. Allowance, a threepenny loaf every other day. Keeper’s salary only £8. In 1788, there was a new keeper, and the prison much cleaner. Here is a mill for grinding beans, and on the outer door was written, “ Beans ground at 8<£ a quarter.”

1787, Oft. 23, Prisoners 14. 1788, Aug. 6, Prisoners 3.

Nottingham County Infirmary.

A neat hospital in a fine situation. The bedsteads were iron, and the furniture clean. Reservoirs of water were over the closets. The windows are (improperly) about three feet below the cielings. If new hospitals were annually lime-whited, especially the wards and passages, they would longer continue fresh and cheerful, as well as lalutary to the patients. Oft. 23d, 1787, Patients 44.

COUNTY.

Midland Circuit.

LINCOLNSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, LINCOLN CASTLE.

No alteration in the old gaol. Allowance now i^lb. of bread; broth twice a day; 2 d. on Sundays, and fix chaldrons of coals a year. The keeper has an addition of £200 to his salary, for supplying the prisoners with their augmented allowance, and in lieu of the tap. Assize convicts have the half crown a week. Acquitted prisoners are not released till the clerk of assize delivers the calendar to the gaoler, after the judge has left the city, for which he receives of the gaoler a guinea, and his clerk five shillings.

A new gaol is built in the castle-yard, in which the passages will be close and dark, but there are no dungeons.

1788, Jan. 16, Debtors 20. Felons &c. 29.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

FOLKINGHAM. No alteration in this offenfiue prison. Court not secure. Prisoners locked up. No water: no employment. Keeper’s salary £40, out of which he maintains (or Jlarves) his prisoners.

1788, Jan. 17, Prisoners 3.

LINCOLN City and County Gaol. No alteration. Through the windows of the two damp cells, both men and women freely converse with idle people in the street, who often supply them with spirituous liquors till they are intoxicated. No court: no sewers: no water accessible to the prisoners. Gaoler’s salary augmented £20 in lieu of the tap.

1788, Jan. 16, Debtors none. Felons &c. 5.

LINCOLN City Bridlwell. Two new rooms adjoining to the spinning school.* Allowance, a shilling a week and half the earnings. No water. The maker of the school is keeper. Salary £10. 1788, Jan. 16, Prisoners 3.

RUTLANDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at OAKHAM.

No alteration in the prison. Allowance now id. a day in bread. Assize convicts have is. /^d. a week. Table of fees now hung up.

1788, Aug. 2, No Debtors. One Petty Offender.

The Spinning School is supported by a legacy of £700 left in 1686. The matter has a salary of ,£30. to teach the children of the poor in this city to spin. There were about twelve spinning wortted in a large room. Mrs. Torke the present Bishop of Ely’s Lady, when she redded at Lincoln, frequently visited this school; and by her attention, and encouragements to the mott cleanly and industrious children, it was then in a flourishing condition.

Y 2

163

Lincoln

Castle.

County Bridewell

City Gaol.

City

Bridewell

Oakham

County

Gaol.

Rutland

164

Oakham

Table

of

Fees.

North-

ampton

County

Gaol.

County

Bridewell

Town

Gaol.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

Rutland to <wit. At the General Quarter Sessions holden at the Cattle in Oakham, —1784, before George Bridges Brudenell, and Henry Boulton Esqrs. and the Rev. Thomas Fafter.

It is ordered by this court that the following rates and fees be taken by the keep this county, and no other.

'cr 01 ms

iviajeity s gaol

£•

For lodging every debtor per week -----

If two lie in one bed, each per week -----

If they find their own bed, and He in the room called the debtors’ room, wherein there are bedsteads of the gaoler’s, each per week -----

For every debtor that lies on the common fide per week -

For the copy of every warrant or commitment -----

For the delivery of every declaration

For signing a certificate in order to obtain a supersedeas -

For the discharge of every debtor -----

Attending upon every prisoner to give bail, special bail, habeas or any thing necessary to go out of gaol, for every mile travelling -----

o

0

0

0

0

o

0

0

0

2 4

i 6

1 o

0 0

1 o

1 o

2 O

14 10 I o

And it is further ordered that the above table of fees be laid before the Judges at the next Assize.

We the Judges of the Assize for the county of Rutland have reviewed, and do hereby confirm the above written Table of Fees. Given under our hand at the Assize holden at Oakham the 23d day of July 1784.

J. SKYNNER, W. H. ASHURST.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at NORTHAMPTON.

Gaoler’s salary £200, out of which he is to give every prisoner three pints of small beer a day. In the walls of the felons’ courts there are now apertures for air. The prison clean as usual. The new room for the sick is over the bridewell, with iron bedsteads and proper bedding. The bread allowance to felons is a fourpenny loaf every other day (weight 3 lb. 2 oz.). County convicts 2s. 6 it. a week.

1787, Oft. 27, Debtors 9. Felons &c. 20.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

OUNDLE. The house is now purchased by the county. It is in a ruinous condition: never white-washed: no possibility of keeping the prisoners, but in heavy irons: no employment. Allowance in bread &c. 6 it. a. day.

1788, Aug. 8, Prisoner 1.

NORTHAMPTON Town Gaol. Damp and insecure. Felons’ court only four feet wide. Gaoler has no licence nor salary.

1787, Oft. 27, Felon 1,

County

Oxford Circuit.

BERKSHIRE.

County Infirmary at Northampton.

The bed-furniture is linen. Here is a good cold bath, but it is seldom used. Each patient at entrance pays i$s. caution money.

PETERBOROUGH Gaol. No alteration in the damp rooms. The gaoler’s salary of ^12 is now augmented, only to £24, out of which he supplies the prisoners.

1788, Jan. 17, Felon 1.

PETERBOROUGH Bridewell. No alteration in this bad prison but a partition in the lower room. Court not secure. No water.

1788, Jan. 17, Prisoner 1. Lunatic 1.

OXFORD CIRCUIT.

BERKSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at READING.

This prison is clean and quiet. Lord Craven and some of the justices visit this gaol and the bridewell, and enter their reports every month: yet there are no rules respecting the quantity of liquors permitted to debtors, which are particularly necessary where their court and that of the felons are divided only by open pallisades. Allowance three-pence a day in bread, either white or brown; (weight, of the former 2 lb. 4 oz. of the latter 2. lb. 12 oz.). Convicts have not the king’s allowance of half a crown a week. Surgeon, for the gaol and bridewell, Mr. Baker-, his salary £20. Chaplain, the Rev. Mr. Hodgkin/on: salary £50 for the gaol and bridewell, and ten guineas from the corporation. The justices order their wages to be paid to him, which he very properly distributes among the prisoners. Gaoler’s salary £ 100. No fees. £25 to the turnkey, who keeps a shop, and, no doubt, supplies the prisoners privately with liquors.

Mrs. Elizabeth Deane (who died on the 5th of July 17S7) widow of H. A. Deane Elq. late of Reading, by will bequeathed £150 to the corporation, upon trust, to buy fire-wood for the county gaol. Accordingly on the 24th of November 1787, with this legacy £156: 17: 3 was purchased in the 4 per cents-, and the dividends thereof arising, are to be laid out in the purchase of fire-wood, for the sole use and benefit of the prisoners who shall from time to time be confined in the county gaol of Berkshire, situate in Reading. A very humane benefaction

1788, July 12, Debtors 10. Felons &c. 18.

-165

In fir-

MARY.

Peter-

borough

Rea ding County Gaol.

The

BERKSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

i 66

In The following Memorial is hung up for the inspection of the felons. — <e As a testimonial of the good effects

Readinc “ of peaceable and decent behaviour, and for making such discoveries as may prevent future escapes, the

Gaol. <t following is inserted. Mr. Daniel Bujhnell, keeper of this gaol, presented a petition to the chairman

P. Powney, Esq. of the Michaelmas general quarter sessions held at Reading, Oft. 7th 1783, in favour of “ Richard Read, a convict under sentence of transportation to Africa for seven years, who by a timely discovery, f( prevented the escape of his fellow prisoners, and for which discovery he receivd his majesty’s full and “ free pardon.”

BERKSHIRE.

Berkshire The following Orders, Roles and Regulations have been made at the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace, Ru les. heldfor the County of Berks, on the several Days mentioned in the Margin, and are published for the Information of

the ailing Jufices of the Peace for the said County, and for the Dire II ion of all others whom they may concern.

1786. Ordered, That a Book be provided by the Treasurer, and all contingent bills belonging to the gaol, and

Jan. 20. the two Houses of Correction, entered therein for six years pall, to be produced by him at the several quarter sessions, and the current bills entered therein, to be ready at all times for the inspection of the jufHces; and that the expences attending the fame be paid by the county.

Ordered, that the keeper of the house of correction at Reading be allowed a salary of fifty pounds a year, to be paid by the treasurer quarterly, in lieu of his former salary, and of all fees, and as a compensation for any profit derived from the sale of liquors, which salary is to commence at Midsummer last; and also twenty per cent, on the net profit arising from all work done in the said house of correction; and that he be also allowed twenty-five pounds a year for a turnkey.

Ordered, That the keeper of the house of correction at Abingdon, be allowed a salary of twenty-five pounds a year, to be paid by the treasurer quarterly, in lieu of his former salary, and of all fees, to commence from the last quarter sessions; and also twenty pounds per cent, on the net profits arising from all work done in the said house of correction. This order to be referred to the justices at the next quarter sessions held at Abingdon, to be confirmed or altered as they may think moll proper.

1786. It was ordered by the Court, That the following Rvlzs and Regulationsfor the better Government Jan. 20, of the Gaol of the said County at Reading, and the Prisoners therein, should be hereafter adopted and established.

I ft. That no garnish or other exadions at entrance be permitted to be taken by the gaoler, or suffered to be paid by one prisoner to another.

2d. That no abuse, ill-treatment, affray, or profane or indecent language be suffered between the prisoners. If any such should happen, the offenders to be punished by reduced allowance on the order of a justice of the peace, or by close confinement, at the difererion of the gaoler; such closer confinement not to be continued beyond forty-eight hours, without the special order of a justice of the peace as aforesaid.

3d. All games whatsoever in the gaol are strictly prohibited, and mull be prevented and innocent excr-cifes, and such as are conducive to health only allowed.

4th. Irons for the prisoners to be provided at the county expence.

5th. That of the usual allowance of three-pence to each prisoner, one half to be delivered in bread, and the other half in money, unless such allowance shall happen to be reduced by order of a justice of the peace on complaint of the gaoler, for misbehaviour.

6th. The gaoler and turnkey to ring a hand bell at the time of opening the cells, which is to be at fun rising between Michaelmas and Lady-day, and at fix o’clock between Lady-day and Michaelmas j and also at the rime of locking up, which is to be at fun set the whole year.

No person to be suffered to go into the night cells at any time, unless to walk or clean them j the doors and windows to be kept open when the prisoners arc let out, except the doors at the foot of each staircase, which are to be kept (hut.

Oxford Circuit. BERKSHIRE. 167

7th. The night cells to be cleaned once by one of the prisoners daily, and washed once every week, or oftener if thought necessary. No filth of any kind to be left in the courts, nor any lUcks, llones, or other obstructions thrown down or made in any of the drains or sewers.

8th. No fees whatever to be taken of any prisoner, except debtors, or from any debtors, but according to the particulars hereunder written.

9th. The gaoler is riot allowed to take any indulgence money, upon any consideration whatever, from any of his prisoners, on pain of being immediately removed from his office.

10th. That the gaoler be allowed a salary of jfioo a year, to be paid by the treasurer quarterly, and twenty-five pounds a year for a turnkey; and that when extra attendants are necessary for securing the prisoners, the gaoler shall represent the fame to a visiting julHce, and not make any other charge to the county for such attendants but what is authorised in writing by the visiting justice, unless in cases of emergency to be specially flated at the sessions.

nth. The Chaplain to read prayers and preach a sermon every Sunday, Christmas-day, Good-Friday, and on government fail and thanksgiving days; and also to read prayers either on Wednesday or Friday in every week; at which all prisoners in the gaol are to attend, and to appear clean and behave with becoming decency.

12th. It is requeued and recommended to the justices at all future quarter sessions, to the grand jury at the affixes, and to every julHce of the peace acting for the said county, to inspect the gaol as often as possible, and to enquire into the conduct of the gaoler and treatment of the prisoners.

13th. The gaoler to keep a book or register for each ward, together with an alphabetical index, in which he is to enter the following particulars of every person who shall be committed into his custody, and produce the fame at every quarter sessions for the inspection of the justices.

Date of confinement— Persons* names—Places of abode — By whom committed — For what offence— Stature, complexion, &c. — When discharged, or bow di/posed of— Remarks on behaviour, &c.

14th. That no fironger liquor than small beer be allowed to any prisoner, except in consequence of a written certificate from the surgeon or apothecary of its being necessary for his health, which certificate the gaoler mall keep in his possession to produce at any time as his junification for having allowed it.

A Table of the Rates and Fees to be taken by the Gaoler and Turnkey at Reading, from Deb tors

confined in the feud Gaol, of the

FIRST CLASS.

Every debtor voluntarily going into the mailer’s ward, — to pay the keeper at entrance, -And to the turnkey, -

To the keeper at the discharge of every debtor, (except insolvent debtors)

And to the turnkey, -

Every debtor lodging in the mailer’s ward, and having a bed to himself, per week,

Two such debtors, in a bed, each, - - -

And every debtor in the mailer’s ward (bringing his own bed) —for lodging room per week.

f. S. D. 0 3 4 o 1 6

068 026 026 0 * 3

o 1 3

SECOND CLASS.

Every such debtor, having a room and bed to himself, fumilhed by the gaoler, per week, o 1 6

Two such debtors in a bed, each per week, - - 009

Debtors in general are to pay to the Gaoler,

For signing every certificate to obtain a supersedeas, or a rule, or order of court, - 016

For each copy of fiieriff’s warrant, (if demanded) - - - - -010

For regillering every declaration against a debtor - - - - -010

These Orders are signed by the Justices of the Peace and judges of Assize.

Berkshire

Rules.

That

BERKSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

i 6 3

KERKSHIRE

Rules.

April 24, 1786.

April 25, 1786.

July 11, 1786.

That the gaoler and bridewell keepers shall insert the date of each expence paid by them in their quarterly bills in the margin, and that vouchers be produced for all money laid out by them for the county.

That the gaoler be allowed two guineas for his journey to and expences at each assize at Abingdon, and one guinea and a half at each quarter sessions at Abingdon and Newbury, and that when he is necessarily out on any other county business, he be allowed three-pence a mile for his travelling charges, and five shillings a day for his extra expences.

Ordered, That the bridewell-keepers do charge the fame allowance for their attendance at the assizes, and at the quarter sessions at Abingdon and Newbury, and for travelling expences on county business, as have been this day settled for the gaoler.

■ That the under-ffieriff of this county do in future pay the gaoler’s bill of cravings to the treasurer to be put to the county flock, instead of paying it to the gaoler as heretofore.

That whoever is gaoler shall give up his whole time to the duties of his office, and shall not be permitted to hold any other office whatever.

That the chaplain to the gaol be the only clergyman of the established church permitted to visit or attend the prisoners at and before the time of execution, or at any other time, except at the particular request of any prisoner under sentence of death, that request being first notified to the chaplain; but if any prisoner or prisoners should declare himself or themselves as dissenting from the doctrines of the established church, then one minister of the faith and persuasion of the said prisoner may be permitted to visit and attend him or them, provided that such minifier does not visit or attend upon any other prisoner, not of such declared faith and persuasion.

Ordered, that the gaoler, when he has occasion to convey prisoners to Abingdon, Newbury, or elsewhere, do convey them in the most economical manner confillently with their safe custody; that he do charge the actual expences incurred and nothing more, and produce a particular account with proper vouchers for the fame.

Ordered, that Mr. Tilleard, the apothecary, do attend the debtors, as well as all the prisoners in the gaol and house of correction; that no other person be employed at the expence of the county, and th?' ve be allowed in future an additional salary of ten pounds a year for the fame.

Ordered, That the gaoler and bridewell-keepers and all other persons haring claims upon the county do produce their accounts at the opening of each quarter sessions, in order that the bench may forthwith form a committee for the examination of them.

Ordered, That the rules and regulations of the county gaol be publifiied once in the Reading and Oxford news papers, and a copy thereof put up in a conspicuous part of the gaol.

In order to prevent impositions or irregularities in the charges made by constables for conveying prisoners to the county gaol, — It is ordered by the Court, this present sessions, that the following allowance only be made in future by the county.

£■ S. D.

For the Constable - - - O z 0 per day.

Guard, if necessary, - - - - O 1 6 ditto.

Subfilience for the prisoner - O 1 0 ditto.

For conveying, if one. - *■ O 1 0 per mile

If two, for each O 0 6 ditto.

If three, for each 0 0 4 ditto.

And 4^. per mile for each, for any larger number.

Ordered, That no work be done to the gaol or bridewell, unless by an order under the hand justice; or, in cases of necessity, of the chaplain.

Ordered, That no money be at any time taken for the admission of persons to fee the prisoners Ordered, That the gaoler be not only in general attentive to the regulations of the 20th of respecting strong liquors, but that he be particularly careful that no ale or other liquor, stronger than small beer, be conveyed to any convicts from the time of their conviction to their execution.

of a visiting

in the gaol. January last

Ordered,

Oxford Circuit.

BERKSHIRE.

169

i ‘

Ordereo, That the visiting justices do cause the debtors’ begging window at the gaol to be secured in such manner as to them may appear most proper: and that the gaoler do not allow any communication between any debtor, whilst in the mumping room, and the rest of the prisoners.

Ordereo, That the gate between the debtors’ court and the court of the strong rooms called the middle kitchen, be always kept locked j and that tire gaoler do never permit any felon to go amongst the debtors.

Oroered, That the rooms on the west-side of the gaol be allotted to the common debtors, and not set apart as matter’s wards, without the previous permission of the sheriff, or the visiting justices.

Ordered, That the gaoler and bridewell keepers do deliver, at every quarter sessions, an account of the county cloaths in their possession, agreeably to the following form.

Berkshire

Rules.

Account of Q ounty Cloaths in the Gaol at Readi ng, or House of Correction at Reaoxng or Abingdon, at the Michaelmas Sessions, 1786, as the Cafe may be.

Articles; frocks, waistcoats, breeches, Hurts, gowns, petticoats, ftiifts, stockings, shoes, and so if any other articles—Balance of laf fessions—Providedf nee—Total—Worn out, &c.—Balance, 3d Oft. 1786—Remarks \ if any cloaths have been loft or sent away with prisoners, &c. the particulars may be explained in this last column.

The foregoing rules are drawn up with so much care and attention by the magistrates, that I did not knowhow to do justice to them, either by abridging, or omitting any of them j which I hope will be my excuse to my readers.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

READING. A new prison, containing fix close (called refrallory) cells, nine feet and Count?-a half by seven and a half; eight solitary cells, ten feet by seven feet nine inches, with Bridewei'l courts about the fame size; and fix wards for prisoners, who are permitted to be together. The rooms are furnished with bedsteads and straw mattrelfes, but no coverlets.

The sewers make most of the rooms and courts ostensive. Here is a chapel, where the worthy chaplain officiates twice a week. Allowance, a threepenny loaf daily (weight 1 lb. 30Z.) and meat on Sundays. No employment. Keeper’s salary^o. No fees.

The names of the prisoners, and terms of confinement, are written on the doors of their cells. I observed some were for one year: a severe confinement, to be so long in solitude, unemployed, in nauseous cells, and without fire in winter.

1788, July 12, Prisoners 17.

* f with all prisoner;, to have separate rooms; for hours ofthoughtfulnefs and reflection are necessary. The gentlemen of this county, by their building this house of correction, and in various other instances, have shewn themselves so attentive, and zealous in whatever may contribute to the real interests of their fellow creatures, that I am glad to take this occasion of making some remarks on solitary confinement. The intention of this, I mean by day as well as by night, is either to reclaim the most atrocious and daring criminals; to punish the refraflory for crimes committed in prison; or to make a strong impression, in a short time, upon thoughtless and irregular young persons, as faulty apprentices, and the like. It should therefore be considered by those who are ready to commit, for a long term, petty offenders to ctbfiluie solitude, that such a state is more than human nature can bear, without the hazard of di [traction or despair; that it is repugnant to the Act which orders all persons in houies of correction to nvorl; and that for want of some employment in the day (as in several houses of correction) health is injured, and a habit of idleness or inability to labour in future, is in danger of being acquired. The beneficial effects on the mind, of such a punishment, are speedy, proceeding from the horror of a vicious person left entirely to his own reflections. This may wear oft' by long continuance, and ■a sullen insensibility may succeed. SL READING

i

I

5

170

OXFORDSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

Reading

Town-

Gaol.

Windsor

Castle.

Town

Gaol.

Oxford

Castle.

READING Town Gaol. Only one room in a public house, which is kept by the eldest serjeant; the corporation now fending their prisoners to the county prisons. I wifii the county magistrates would ■prevent this prevailing mode of crowding their prisons.

1788, July 12, No Prisoners.

WINDSOR Castle, Prison for Debtors. The discontinuance of this prison for some time was occasioned, probably, by the murder of the old keeper in the tap-room. It is now used as a prison, and there is no alteration in the fix rooms for confinement.

1788, July 13, Debtors 2.

WINDSOR Town Gaol. No alteration in this bad prison. The keeper lately dismissed for drunkenness. 1788, July 13, Prisoner 1.

OXFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, OXFORD CASTLE.

A prison is now building for a county gaol and bridewell, on Mr. Blackburn's plan. The very active and worthy magistrate, Mr. Willoughby, has put in practice Dr. Fothergill’s favourite scheme of employing the convicts in building, which he had adopted in regard to the intended Penitentiary Houses.* * Here the lodges, and the gateway with the

* A lift of prisoners in the county gaol and bridewell, from January 23d, 1786, to January 7th, 1787, was published, with an account of their earnings, expense of maintenance, materials for work &c. which was as follows:

Total Earnings - - ,£198: 1; 11

Expense in Bread - £58: 19: o

Ditto in Clothes and extra Feeding 85: 1; 9-J

Overlooker - - - - 22; 10: o

Materials for Work &c. - 11: 11: o

Total Expense - - 178:1:9!

Balance saved to the County - - - - 20: o:

From January 7th, 1787, to January ift, 1788, Balance saved to the County £113: 9: 2.

The above report was made at the last Epiphany Sessions, and was then ordered to be printed, and to be

* sent to the Lord Lieutenant, the ailing Magistrates of the county, the Foreman of the Grand Jury at the next 11 Lent and Summer Affixes, and to the subscribers to the gaol charity.”—To the honour of the Gentlemen of this county I quote what follows respetting this their well-directed charity. “ And the Trea/urer of the subscription '• for pecuniary rewards on the discharge of indujhrious prisoners t having reported to the Magistrates then " present, that there was a considerable balance in hand from the last year’s subscription, it was agreed, *< that there was no immediate occasion to call on the subscribers; but that the Trea/urer should have liberty to call on them for their annual subscriptions, when, and in such manner, as the Committee appointed to 1 f superintend the management of the castle gaol should think proper. ”

Some prisoners, when they are discharged, are completely clothed, have a little money in their pockets, and a good character given them, with a further promise that if they bring at the end of the year, a certificate from the matter with whom they work of a good and sober character, they shall be further rewarded.

chapel

Oxford Circuit.

OXFORDSHIRE.

chapel over it, will be built entirely by the convicts. These were at work, and guarded only by one man, though several of them, for their good behaviour, had their irons taken off. This proves, that among such delinquents many are reclaimable, and not so entirely abandoned as some are apt to suppose. (They were going to work on the navigation). The encouragements here given with respect to their diet, clothes, and term of confinement, have been the means of recovering many from their bad habits, and of rendering them useful members of society. Here the convitts are not defrauded of the king’s allowance of is. 6d. a week.

In my former edition of the State of the Prisons, his Majesty’s kind donation of fioo for the discharge of insolvent debtors at Salisbury was inserted. His gracious Majesty lately left £300 at Oxford for the fame humane purpose; by which bounty twenty-six debtors out of twenty-seven were released: all their creditors, one only excepted, readily coming into the composition, and the twenty-seventh received £1$, to recover a debt for the benefit of himself and his creditors. With pleasure I mention this proper and faithful application of the money, well knowing that part of the donation at Salisbury was Ipent for the benefit of the gaoler’s tap.

The felons lodge in the old castle. Here all the rooms were much cleaner and fresher than I had seen them at my former visits. One of the regulations is, that no visiters shall be admitted on Sundays; which would be very proper in all gaols, as that is, too generally, a day of confusion and intoxication. This is remarkably the case in the prisons at London. The new gaoler’s salary is /105. 1787, Nov. 26, Debtors 12.

Felons &c. 24.

OXFORD City Gaol is now building. Mr. Blackburn is the architect. It is intended for a gaol and bridewell. The city prisoners are in the county gaol, and in the bridewell.

OXFORD City Bridewell. Two rooms on the second floor; that for the women only seventeen feet by nine, and seven feet high, in which were seven prisoners, and frequently there are many more: court not secure: prisoners never let out but for a few minutes. Allowance, two quartern loaves a week. No employment: no coals: no bedding.

Oxford Radcliffe Infirmary.

I am sorry that I mull repeat my remarks on the closeness and offensiveness of four out of the five large wards of this county hospital, viz. three of the men’s and the lower one of the women’s. None of the windows of the staircases were open: , the upper failles are fixed; as is one part of the sashes in several of the wards. The drv-rubbing of the floors, which is too generally practised in hospitals, is almost as bad as hiding the dirt with sand. Here is a convenient and good bath; and, very properly, the wash-house and brew-house are detached buildings.

BANBURY Town Gaol and Bridewell. No alteration. The prisoners are not permitted to have any fire, their bedding being straw. Keeper now pays no rent, and has a salary of £15 in lieu of the tap. 1788, Feb. 16, Prisoners 3.

z 2

171

Oxford

Castle.

City

Gaol.

City Brj DEWEI.L

County

Hospital.

Banbury

Gaol.

COUNTY

172

WORCESTERSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

Wor-

cester

Castle.

County

Bridewell

City

Gaol.

COUNTY GAOL, WORCESTER CASTLE.

Here are eighteen new cells, and a day-room for men, and two cells and a day-room for women felons, and over thele, two rooms, with small windows for women-debtors. The workmen were repairing the dungeon, in the court. In each of the cells, two felons (very improperly) lie together on the floors. These cells were dirty; and the apertures for air were all stopt, through the inattention of the gaoler. Debtors and felons are in one court: this should be divided: and there is only one day-room for felons and convicts: these should have separate day-rooms and courts. Convicts have not the half crown a week.

The two sick-rooms are badly contrived; one of which has no window. The late keeper and his wife who succeeded him, both died of the gaol-fever.* Acquitted prisoners are kept in irons till the judge leaves the city, when the gaoler pays is. for each, and ns. 6d. for the calendar.—The gaoler is a butcher, and lives some miles distant; and his son, a young man, has the care of this large prison. Salary £150 in lieu of the tap.f

1788, Feb. 5, Debtors 23. Felons &c. 31. Convicts 16.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

WORCESTER. No employment. Allowance a sixpenny loaf every other day as in the county gaol (weight 4.H. ioz.). No blankets being allowed, moll of the prisoners said they lay in their clothes. Allowance for llraw, 25 s. a quarter. A new prison is nearly finished. By the small number of the cells, it seems that they are not designed for solitary confinement at night. 1788, Feb. 6, Prisoners 13.

WORCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration, but cleaner and quieter than in the time of the late gaoler. The windows of the free ward are towards the street. Gaoler’s salary £40 in lieu of the tap. The

f In the course of my pursuits, I have known also several amiable young gentlemen, who, in their zeal to do good, have been carried off by that dreadful disorder, the gaol-fever; and this has been one incentive to my endeavours for its extirpation out of our prisons. I [hall mention one assessing indance which happened here, of a young physician falling a sacrifice to this didemper through a benevolent attention to some prisoners afflicted with it, as the circumdance is related by Dr. Barnes in the Manchester Memoirs, vol. II. f. 85. “ Dr. Johnstone

" junior, of Worceder, has lately fallen a much lamented martyr to a noble discharge of duty, in attending 4‘ the prisoners ill of a fever in Worceder jail (1783). He attained, at an early period, to great and deserved eminence in his profession: and will be ever regretted as a physician of great ability and genius, and as one of " the mod pleasing and benevolent of men; prematurely snatched from his friends and country, when become highly " agreeable andufeful to them.”—And yet, alas I the dreadful dungeon here, the planks of which were perilhed by damp and the breath of prisoners, was at my lad visit preparing again for the reception of others.

I His Majesty, in his late visit to this city, very humanely left £300 to be applied to the releasing of debtors from confinement. I could have wifned he had made such a kind visit to this cadle as he did at Oxford.

nine

Oxford Circuit.

nine-pin ground, where idle people resorted, is now added to the garden. Allowance, a threepenny loaf.—The gaol-fever was lately here. A convenient infirmary might be made in the spacious garden.

1788, Feb. 5, Debtors 12. Felons See. 7. Convicts

County Infirmary at Worcester.

In this hospital there were fifty-three patients. Not a window open in the wards County

or staircases. not washed.

Men’s wards offensive. Beds not made at noon. The floors rubbed.

STAFFORDSHIRE

COUNTY GAOL as

STAFFORD.

No alteration in this crowded prison. Only one small day-room for men and women. In the dungeon for male felons, I saw fifty-two chained down, hardly fourteen inches being allowed to each. The moisture from their breath ran down the walls. I need not intimate the heat and offensiveness of this dungeon, and the paleness of the prisoners. The women were in irons, and lay in another dungeon. Last year, seven of the felons died in their dungeon of the gaol-fever; and the free ward, or county chamber, being directly over it, nine out of thirteen of the poor debtors died. No infirmary: no bath. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Though this prison is bad and crowded, many things might be done by an attentive and humane gaoler for the convenience and health of his prisoners, confidently with his own security. One debtor’s attempting to escape was not a suficient reason why a window should be bricked up in the county chamber, which before was too dark and close. A lofty and good room with a fire-place, over the women’s dungeon, was kept during the sickness, and is still retained, for the gaoler’s lumber. I am sorry that when this circumstance was publicly mentioned, some gentlemen should so readily acquiesce in the gaoler’s excuje, that the room was not secure. It is a strong room: but even admitting it not so strong as the dungeon, it is sufficiently secure for some who are not the mod atrocious criminals, and especially such as are sick, or in dying circumstances. Allowance, two shillings, in fifteen penny loaves and lib. of chccfe a week. The bread was good and of proper weight. Convicts have the two shillings and sixpence a week. Gaoler’s salary £100 in lieu of the tap.* The county is now going to build a new gaol.

1788, Feb. 11, Debtors 31. Felons &c. 39. Convicts 22.

COUNTY

* Many of the windows of this prison are towards the street; and opposite to the prison gate, there are three adjoining ale-houses. One of them having harboured a gang, of which some were condemned and executed, j udge Buffer took away the licence; but, it being ntrw renewed, the house is said to be again the resort of bad company. — The great and increasing number of ale-houses that I observe in my tours through this kingdom

I cannot

f ii

*74

SHROPSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

Stafford CoU NT Y Bridewell

RICHFIELD

City

Gaol.

County

Xnfir-

MARY.

Shrews-

bury

County

Gaol.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

STAFFORD. No alteration. The prison clean, and none of the prisoners in irons. No court: no employment. The fame allowance of bread and cheese* as in the gaol. Bedding only straw, which is sent in every fortnight. The keeper puts in a deputy, who has no salary. 1788, Feb. 11, Prisoners 18.

LICHFIELD CITY and COUNTY GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. Gaoler’s salary £50 in lieu of the tap. 1788, Feb. 13, No Prisoners. County Infirmary at Stafford.

This hospital is quiet and clean, and has a humans and attentive apothecary. The surgeons are here paid for their attendance.

SHROPSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at SHREWSBURY.

No alteration in this close prison. Women in irons, though confined to their day-room and dungeon; the men double ironed, and chained to the floor at night.f No infirmary. J Allowance, 3d. a day in bread. The gaol is served by two bakers, one appointed by the county, the other by the sheriff. The weight of their sixpenny loaf was only 4lb. 4oz. when the weight at the bridewell was 4lb. 12 or 130Z. and of the fame bread in the town 4lb. 1302;. The convicts have is. and a sixpenny loaf every Saturday. Acquitted prisoners are not discharged in court. A publican with cans of beer was waiting on Sunday, in the inside, to serve the prisoners. This county obtained an act 26 Geo. III.

I cannot but lament; as it is one gnat and obvious reason why our prisons are so crowded both with debtors and felons. Many magistrates are sensible of this evil, yet so dreadfully supine and timid, as to grant fresh licences (often at the intercellion of their interested clerks) in which their conduct is highly culpable. It should be remembered, that it is the spirit of our laws, and therefore the duty of magistrates, by every means to prevent, if pollible, the commission of crimes.

* Such a quantity of cheese is improper in prisons. For the cpd. a week here in milk, oatmeal, potatoes, or other vegetables, they might have a hoc mess almost every day.

f I have often wilhed that gentlemen would make Rules for the conduSl of gaolers, as well as for prisoners, and many gaolers have wilhed for such rules. Neiv keepers would then be informed that Jleady discipline, and Jlritt regularity will do more to keep prisoners in health, and prevent the commission of crimes in gaols, than /evenly and opprejston. I have often thought that a sober, humane, half-pay oj/.cer would make one of the hejl gaolers.

J The late gaoler’s charge to the county for the sick, for four years, in wine See. was 7)386: 15: o', exclu-five of the surgeon’s and apothecary’s bills. Probably, if a tenth part of it had been allowed for clothes, linen, soap, and other necessaries for cleanliness, with proper bedding and nourishment, it would have saved the lives of many of our fellow creatures.

cap. 24.

Oxford Circuit.

SHROPSHIRE.

cap. 14. for building a new gaol and house of correction, and they have fixed on a fine situation for that purpose. I am sorry to find this clause in the act “ That the gaoler for the time being shall be the keeper of the house of correction.” A table of fees, the act for preserving the health of prisoners, and clauses again!!: spirituous liquors are hung up. Gaoler’s salary £100 in lieu of the tap, and £5 from the town.

1788, Feb. 9, Debtors 25. Felons &c. 22. Convicts 7.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

SHREWSBURY. No alteration, but the addition of two night-rooms for women. Of late years the prisoners are not permitted to attend public worship in the county gaol. Only one day-room for both sexes. No employment. Keeper’s salary £5: 5:0 and £5 from the town. 1788, Feb. 9, Prisoners 14.

SHREWSBURY Town Gaol is taken down, and the prisoners are sent to the county gaol and bridewell, which before were far too much crowded. One debtor and seven other prisoners were in the county gaol, and five in the bridewell. The town allowance is only lO'^-d a week, in bread, which is served by the county baker.

BISHOP’s CASTLE Town Gaol. This prison is only two rooms at the town house. One, called the dungeon, has the windows towards the street,* a dirt floor and no fire-place: the other for debtors is the jury room. 1788, Feb. 8, No Prisoners.

LUDLOW Town Gaol. No alteration. The windows are towards the street.

1788, Feb. 7, Prisoner 1.

LUDLOW Town Bridewell. A dark room in the old work-house. f

1788, Feb. 7, No Prisoners.

County Infirmary at Shrewsbury.

The wards of this hospital are inconvenient, the cielings low, and the water closets offensive; the house not being originally built for an hospital. It is now out of repair, and as the governors intend the addition of some new wards, I took the liberty to advise the building of an entire new hospital. J

* Where the windows are towards the street, the disorderly are encouraged rather than checked and reformed by imprisonment.

f The old work-house is a difinal, negletted house, in which, the keeper told me, the poor of that parish and ten others were farmed. He mentioned looms, but it seemed that there were none in use.

I Shrewsbury poor-house, originally designed for a foundling hospital, and afterwards occupied by Dutch prisoners of war (See The State of the Prisons, page 190.) is now purchased for a work-house, being well adapted for that purpose. It was neat and clean, and does great credit to the attention of the directors: it may vie with the best regulated houses of industry in this kingdom.

*75

Shrews-

bury.

County

Bridewell

Town

Gaol.

B1 s h 0 p '$ Castle Gaol.

Ludlow

Gaol.

Town Bridewell

County In f1r-

M ARY.

COUNTY

HEREFORDSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

>76

COUNTY GAOL at HEREFORD.

Hereford Here are twelve new rooms for men, and four for women: they are too low, and the staircases are inconvenient. By the advice of Mr. Caw, the surgeon, a convenient court is now made for the men; and I doubt not but he will procure the enlargement of the women’s court; it being only five feet wide. Allowance three pennyworth of bread a day: to convicts a twopenny loaf and two-pence in money. Acquitted prisoners are not released till the judge leaves the city. Neither the act for preserving the health of prisoners, nor clauses again!! spirituous liquors are hung up; nor rules, which now become more necessary, to restrain the free admission of liquors. Women convicts continue in this, and other gaols, longer than the men — some even four or five years. I found that most of the women felons were in heavy irons,* but they were taken off the next day. No employment: no allowance for coals. Gaoler’s salary £60 in lieu of the tap.

1788, Feb. 4, Debtors 6. Felons &c. 16. Convicts 9.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

County HEREFORD. No alteration in the two offensive rooms. Allowance, three halfpence in bread. A fine spring of water is near the prison. Employment, making shoe-makers’pegs. Keeper’s salary £ 1 j. 1788, Feb. 4, Prisoners 5.

City HEREFORD City Gaol and Bridewell. No alteration. Allowance two perrny-Gaol' worth of bread a day. No court. Gaoler no salary, but 20s. as keeper of the bridewell: he still fells beer, f

1788, Feb. 4, Debtors 2. Petty Offender 1.

Hereford County Infirmary.

County Here is lately built a county infirmary on a fine spot near the river. The kitchen out Infir- of t]le . t]ie Wards not crowded: a dining-room for each sex: convenient baths.

The floors are of elm, which is not durable; and though the colour is brown, one might fee that they were not clean. J

* This indecent, wanton, and cruel custom of putting irons on the weaker sex in prisons, is not praflifed in any of the moil uncimlixed countries that 1 have visited.

f In this city, and many other places, the bakers make only the white bread. The assize here from the 4th to 1 tth of February 178 S was, the twopenny loaf frandard wheaten, 1 lb. 5 esc.. 6 drams, the lixpenny loaf 4If. 3 drams. So that the poor are almoil obliged to buy dear and fine bread.

; In the work-house for the city, the rooms and the inhabitants were clean, having a notable matron. With respect to health and conveniences in tvork-houses and infirmaries, more depends on such women than is generally imagined.

COUNTY

Oxford Circuit.

MONMOUTHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at MONMOUTH.

*77

No alteration. Still no chaplain. Allowance only a pennyworth of bread (weight B±cz.) and that out of the gaoler’s salary of £20. The convicts have the half crown a week. The felons are chained to the floor at night. Acquitted prisoners are detained in irons till the clerk of assize delivers the calendar to the gaoler, after the judge has left the town; for which the gaoler pays i2r. 6d. and 2s. for every such prisoner. Each prisoner receives a sixpenny loaf every quarter day from Mr. James Gabriel’s kind donation, who died the 26th of March, 1754. To the gaoler’s former salary of £20, there is an addition of £45, in lieu of the tap.

A county gaol is building on a fine eminence, near the water: the ground is given by the Duke of Beaufort, and Mr. Blackburn is the architedt.

1788, Jan. 31, Debtors 6. Felons &c. 10.

Mon-

mouth

County

Gaol*

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

USK. No alteration. The prison and court clean: a pump with fine water: no County employment. 1788, May 23, Prisoners 4. Bridewell

MONMOUTH Town Gaol. No alteration: no court: no water. Gaoler’s salary Town £4, as formerly, and he fells beer. Gaol.

1788, Jan. 31, Felons &c. 2.

GLOUCESTERSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, GLOUCESTER CASTLE.

The old gaol is taken down, and a new one, with a house of correction is now Glou-

building near the river, under the inspection of Sir George Oneftphorus Paul, who has CESTEK

# Castle.

bellowed the most zealous and unremitting attention on this object; and will render it

a lasting monument of his skill and humanity.*

In the temporary prison, allowance is two-pence in bread, and a penny in money.

The twopenny loaf for the felons weighed 1 lb. 5 oz. that for the fines, being somewhat

coarser, weighed 1 lb. 11 oz. The transports have their 2s. 6d. a week. His Majesty

^ * The cM for building a new gaol and penitentiary house, and certain new houser of correction, for the county

of Glouajier, and for regulating the fame (25th Geo. III. 1785.) drawn up by Sir George O. Paul, well deserves to be consulted by gentlemen who have any intention of building a county gaol or prison.

A a

in

17s

GLOUCESTERSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit-.

Glou- cester. in his late visit, very humanely left £300 for the relief of the debtors, and gave £50 to the infirmary. 1787, Nov. 24, Debtors 20. Felons &c. 31. Fines 23. i788> Jan- 3°) - - 24. - - - 37. - - 20. COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

County Bridewell LAWFORD’s GATE, Bristol. No alteration: no employment. 1787, Nov. 19, Prisoners 6. 1788, May 26, Prisoners j. In the new bridewell which is building in the adjoining field, there are forty cells on the two upper floors (seven feet four inches by fix feet one inch) which open into a passage rather too narrow (four feet and a half) though the ingenious Mr. Blackburn is the architect.

St. Bk. 1 ayelt’s Gaol. St. BRIAVELT’s Gaol, for Debtors. No alteration. The keeper fells beer; and there is company as at a common ale-house. Here were lately released— one who was confined near a year: debt only 31. Colls £4: 11: 4 — another, near two years: debt 40t. Colls £7: 15: 8 — another, debt £1: 19: 0. Colls -£4:4: 6. Some would here perish for want, if it were not for the kindness of Mr. Milfon a maltller, who lives near, and fends them provisions, and procures collections in the neighbouring towns for their release. Their cases cannot be known to Lord Berkeley the proprietor, who never visits the town. 1788, Jan. 31, No Prisoners.

City Gaol. GLOUCESTER City Gaol. The new gaol is now occupied. Allowance a threepenny loaf a day. Neither clauses against spirituous liquors, nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners hung up. Gaoler’s salary £11. 1787, Nov. 24, Debtors 5. Felons &c. 6.

County Hospital. County Hospital at Gloucester. In this hospital the wards were clean and fresh, and there was a spacious and convenient bath. Of the many good rules for the government of this infirmary, the sixth is, “ That no person shall have a vote at any general meeting, unless he has been a subscriber for •' six months complete, to be computed from the day he paid his first subscription.” I wilh, inllead offix months, it had been twelve months.

Win- chester County Gaol. WESTERN CIRCUIT. HAMPSHIRE. COUNTY GAOL at WINCHESTER. A new prison for felons, at the back of the old gaol, is nearly finished. Allowance to felons a threepenny loaf a day (weight lib. 30Z.). Convicts receive only part of the half crown a week, though charged by the under sheriff in his bill of cravings. Gaoler’s salary

Western Circuit.

HAMPSHIRE.

J79

salary ,(200 in lieu of the cap,* and £75 for his two turnkeys. The gaol is kept very clean, and frequently visited by the magistrates; yet I saw no bath: and no rules or orders are hung up. 1788, July 4, Debtors 31. Felons &c. 30.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

WINCHESTER. A new and spacious prison (the foundation (tone laid June 7, 1786, finished Nov. 6, 1787) whichhas four courts, and a pump in each court; a chapel, and infirmary. There is a good house for the keeper, and the prison is kept very clear.. Keeper’s salary £100 in lieu of all fees, and £30 for the turnkey. The prisoners’ names and terms of confinement are hung on the doors of their solitary cells. Allowance, i(<I. in bread, a day, and to those that work id. more. The prison is constantly visited by a worthy nobleman in this city. 1788, July 4, Prisoners 26.

GOSPORT. No alteration. Only one day-room for men and women. No employment. Allowance, two pennyworth of bread. Keeper’s salary ^52 in lieu of the tap.

1788, July 6, Prisoners 2.

ODIAM. No alteration. Only one day-room for men and women. No employment. Allowance, three halfpennyworth of fine bread (weight 17 oz.J. No fuel nor bedding allowed by the county. Prison not white-washed these five years. Keeper a sheriff's officer; his salary £1J. The large room in the centre still kept for a brew-house.

1788, July 11, Prisoners, one Man and one Woman.

At WINCHESTER, the old County Bridewell is now the City Prison. No alteration in it. The keeper has a licence for beer and wine.

1788, July 4, No prisoners.

The Prison for Debtors called the Cheney Court, the property of die Bishop, is now discontinued.

County Hospital at Winchester.

' In this hospital all the windows of the passages and staircase were shut, and the under (or venereal) wards were dirty, close and offensive. The bedsteads are iron, and painted green: the furniture blue and white. The patients, who are able to fit up, dine very properly in a room adjoining to their wards. Here, and in several of our county hospitals, I could wish there were large apertures over the doors (as in die London hospital) to prevent, in part, the offensiveness of the wards at night. July 4th, 1788, Patients 43.f

* I am persuaded that in this, Warwick, Brecon, and several other gaols, debtors now fell beer.

4 Out of the gate of this city, there is a pillar erected (as a memorial of a dreadful plague that livept off a great number of the inhabitants) upon the spot to which provisions were then brought for the supply of the city.

WIN-

CHESTER.

County

Bride-

wells.

City

Prison.

County

Hostital.

SOUTHAMPTON.

iSo

South-

AMPTON

Prisons.

Br I DEWELL

Ports-

MOUT H

Town-

Gaol.

Has la r Hospital.

HAMPSHIRE. Western Circuit.

SOUTHAMPTON. The Bar Gate is discontinued as a prison for debtors.

The gaol for felons (the tower') is enlarged, and converted into two prisons, one for debtors, the other for felons; each of which has a court and water, and a separate keeper. Salary to each ,f io. Allowance to prisoners, gd. a day.

1788, July 5, Debtors 2. Felons a.

SOUTHAMPTON Bridewell. No alteration. 17S8, July j, No Prisoners.

PORTSMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

No alteration, but cleaner than at my former visits. No convenience for the reparation of the sexes in this cloje prison. Debtors’ window towards the street. Allowance to felons, a twopenny loaf, and a penny in money. Clauses again!! spirituous liquors now hungup: the keeper no licence: salary £60. 1788, July 8, Debtors j. Felons &c. 18.

The Royal Hospital at Haslar near Gosport.

I always found this well-conduSled hospital remarkably clean and quiet, and (what is very different from the practice in the county hospitals) none of the floors were sanded, or dry rubbed, and the windows on all the staircases were open.* The patients have white linen shirts and the hospital clothes; and the linen of the beds is white. In this hospital there are about eighteen hundred beds, nineteen or twenty in general in a ward. The wards are sixty feet by twenty-four, and the height twelve feet, on 'two floors, and ten on the third, and the arcades below are twenty-four feet wide. All the nurses here, and in the hospital at Plymouth, are women, which is very proper, as they are more cleanly and tender; and they more easily pacify the patients, who are seafaring men. Vifiters are admitted, very properly, only on two days in a week. The staircases are -spacious, but they are of wood: the rises are too high; and there is no hand-rail on the wall. The mfide sewers are offensive: there are no cijlerns in the wards: the pipes by which they are supplied with water, both for drink and waffling, adjoin (indelicately) to the fe'wers. The two cells for lunatic patients are too close and badly situated. The deling of the attic floor is too low (seven feet); when the hospital is new roofed, it may be raised with little additional expense. To each wing there should be a sea-bath; and a circulation of air is as absolutely necessary through the centre of the front as in the wings. If there were apertures into the passages, near the cieling, they would keep the wards fresh at. night. Under several of the wards there are cellars for wood, lumber &c. which are dangerous in case of fire. For security against fire and infectious disorders I prefer the hospital at Plymouth, a plan of v/hich is in my former work.

Some of the principal offices, such as the dispensary, water-works, wash-house, bed-house and fumigating-cells, being very properly detached buildings, are not in the plan which I give of this hospital at Haflar. See plate xix.

' Dr. Lind long since informed me. that he had the fa!h windows on the staircases nailed up in summer, to prevent their being Ihut.

The

Western Circuit.

HAMPSHIRE.

181

The following Regulations and Orders were hung up in the Wards. REGULATIONS Refpetting the Nurses and other Servants of the Royal Hospital at Haslar.

ORDERED,

I. That none of the nurses, or other servants in the hospital, do conceal the effefls of any of the patients who Haslar

may die therein; reports of such effects are to be made, immediately after the decease of the patients, Recula-

to the agent, or his clerk, by the respective nurses of the wards. tions.

II. That no bags, chests, or bundles of any kind, belonging to the patients, be received, or kept in any

of the wards, or nurses cabbins, but carried to the bed-house.

III. That no dirt, bones, or rags, be thrown out of any window, or down the bogs, but carried to the places

appointed for that purpose; nor are any cloaths of the patients, or others, to be hung out of any

of the windows of the house.

IV. That no foul linen, whether Iheets or Ihirts, be kept in the cabins, or wards, but sent immediately to

the matron, in order to its being carried to the waih-house; and the nurses are to obey the orders

of the matron in punctually shifting the bed and body linen of the patients, m, their Iheets once a fortnight, their Ihirts once in four days, their night caps, drawers and blockings once a week, or oftener if found necessary.

V. That no nurse or other person do walh in the water closets.

VI. That no hospital dress or any part of that dress, be carried out of the fever, flux, or small-pox wards

into other wards, nor are the men to be permitted to wear any part of their own cloaths in these wards; and the patients are not to be suffered to wear the hospital night caps out of their proper wards, but by per million of the physician or surgeon.

VII. That dead bodies be not left longer in the wards or lobbies than the precise time ordered by the physician

or surgeon, at the expiration of which, and not before, they are to be carried into the dead-house.

VIII. That no nurse do admit any patients, on any pretence whatsoever, into her cabin, nor suffer any person 'to remain in it at night, not even her husband or child.

IX. That any nurse concealing the escape of any patient from her ward, or that has not made due report, at

the agent’s office, of her having miffed such patient, be discharged the hospital, upon proof thereof.

X. That all nurses who disobey the matron’s orders, get drunk, neglect their patients, quarrel or fight with

any other nurses, or quarrel with the men, or do not prudently and cautiously reveal, to the superior officers of the house, all irregularities committed by the patients in their wards (such as drinking, smoaking tobacco in the wards, quarrelling, defraying the medicines, or stores, feigning complaints and neglecting their cure) be immediately discharged the service of the house, and a note made against their names, on the books of the hospital, that they may never more be employed.

XI. That the nurses take care to prevent the patients from lying down in their beds with their cloaths on,

or having their wearing apparel on their beds or cradles, or any bread, butter, or provisions of any kind, upon the heads of their cradles, or about their beds, and that no victuals be dressed in the wards.

XII. That if any men are taken ill in the recovery ward, so as to be obliged to take to their beds, the nurses

do acquaint the assistant in waiting therewith, that they may be immediately removed, if that shall be judged necessary.

XIII. That the nurses provide themselves always with a sufficient quantity of such drinks for the patients as are ordered, and when they cannot be got, that they acquaint the physician or surgeon therewith. In the fever, flux, and small-pox wards, gruel and panado are constantly to be kept ready, both night and

day;

I 82

HAMPSHIRE.

Western Circuit.

IIasla r Regulations.

ORDERS To be cbferved by tht Patients in the Royal Hospital at Haslax.

I. No one shall be guilty of blasphemous expressions, unlawful swearing, cursing, drunkenness, uncleanness,

lying, or other scandalous afttons, to the corruption of good manners, and in derogation of God’s honour.

II. All shall behave with proper respect to the officers of the hospital; and none shall presume to quarrel or

fight in the hospital.

III. No one shall absent himself from the hospital without leave.

IV. No one shall pilfer, pawn, or damage any of the furniture or things appertaining to the hospital, or to

any persons therein; nor shall any one defile, deface, or damage any part of the hospital.

V. No person shall walk on the grass-plats, in the area of the building, nor ease themselves in any place not

allotted for that purpose.

VI. No one shall presume to beg of any person, either within or without the hospital, on any pretence

whatsoever.

VII. No one shall be noisy, or seditious on account of any deficiency in quantity, or defect in quality of

provisions, or any thing else; but if there shall be any cause of complaint, the fame shall be quietly made known to one of the superior officers of the hospital, that what is proper may be done thereupon.

VIII. Whoever shall be privy to the commission of any of the aforesaid misdemeanors, shall immediately, or as

soon after as possible, discover the fame to one of the superior officers of the hospital.

IX. No patients are to be suffered to smoak tobacco in any of the wards; if any patient shall persist in doing it, after having been admonished by the nurse, file is to report such patient to the physician or surgeon.

X. All the patients who are able, are to go to the barber’s Giop twice a week to be shaved; and whosoever shall be found to have disobeyed this direction, will be complained of to the officers of the ships to which they respectively belong.

The Scheme of Diet at this hospital, is the fame as is used at the Royal Hospital at Plymouth, viz.

DIET AT HASLAR HOSPITAL.

I, Low Diet, Water gruel, panado, rice gruel, milk pottage, or broth, and bread and butter, if necessary. For drink, toast and water, pdfan, or white decoction.

day; and in these wards, a small chink of the upper part of some one or more of the windows is con-flantly to be kept open, so as at night gently to move the flame of a candle when standing on the table, unless otherwise ordered by the physician: The proper patients only are to come into these

wards, and no others whatever.

XIV. That no cards, or gaming of any kind, be permitted in the hospital.

XV. That such nurses as can be spared by the matron, go to chapel every Sunday; and that the nurses take care, that such patients as are able do attend divine service whenever it is performed; and report to the physician or surgeon, such persons as neglect going there.

XVI. That no person whatever be permitted to fell wine, brandy, strong beer or other liquors, nor any

articles whatsoever, either within the hospital or its bounds.

XVII. That no will be made for any patient, without leave first had in writing, from the physician or

surgeon; and that no officer, assistant, clerk, matron, nurse or any person whatsoever belonging to the hospital, shall accept a will made in their favour.

II. Half

Western Circuit.

WILTSHIRE.

183

II. Half Diet. For briakfaft, milk pottage; for dinner, half a pound of mutton, some light bread pudding, Haslah

or in lieu of it, some greens; a pint of broth, one pound of bread, one quart of small beer; the Rules.

men upon this diet to dine in their own wards.

III. Full Diet. Breakfajt as above; for dinner one pound of meat, one pint of broth, one pound of bread,

three pints of small beer; /upper in the two lad named diets, to be of broth left at dinner; or, if thought necessary, to be of milk pottage.

Rice Milk, orange whey, orange and lemon water, tamarind whey and water, vinegar whey, balm tea, sage tea. These to be discretionally ordered by the physician and surgeons.

WILTSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at SALISBURY.

The debtors’ lodgings are very high; is. 6d. a week for each, though two in a bed. Salisbury On the felons’ fide there are three floors, and on each eight cells (some about ten feet y

and a half by fix and a half, and nine feet high to the crown of the arch) which open into narrow passages, hardly three feet wide. The cells being too few, when the felons are numerous, two or three are crowded into one cell. This was the case in 1784 when seventeen prisoners and one turnkey died of the gaol fever. The felons then were kept in cloje confinement: now they are out only one hour in a day. . Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up; no bath, though the prison is so conveniently situated, being near a fine stream of water. The gaol not white-washed since the sickness in 1784.

Here the acquitted prisoners that are poor are kept in irons till the judge leaves the

town, but others are immediately discharged.

No part of this prison is now a bridewell; yet the warrants are expressed “ to be kept to hard labour.” The Jlable and cart-house still continue, though many common-fide debtors and petty offenders are crowded into a fimoky room adjoining. Surgeon,

Mr. Robert Still; salary now £i\. Gaoler’s salary only £$o. Often have I wilhed, that all fees were abolished.

1787, Nov. 16, Debtors 18. Felons &c. 21.

1788, July 3, - - 13. - - - 17.*

COUNTY BRIDEWELL and TOWN GAOL.

DEVIZES. A new prison with fix separate courts, of which one only can be viewed County by the keeper from his windows. The magistrates have improperly built on the old Br,dewell close and confined spot a fault too common in such cases, when at no greater expense, a more healthy situation might have been chosen, out of the town. Employment, said to be making nets. Surgeon’s salary now £15. No chaplain. Allowance to

* At both my visits, I looked into the County Infirmary adjoining, and found the men’s wards as offensive as any of the rooms in the gaol. All the windows were Ihut, though the weather was mild, and the air clear and dry; and it seemed by the cobwebs and dull, that those on the llaircafes were never opened.

felons

134

•WILTSHIRE.

Western Circuit.

Devizes,

Cot/NT Y Bridewell

City

Gaol.

felons now three-pence a day in bread, a pint of small beer, and two pound of potatoes a week."* Gaoler’s salary £100.

1788, May 29, Debtor 1. Felons and Petty Offenders 29.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL and TOWN GAOL.

MARLBOROUGH. This prison is almost new: now having—for the men, two work or day-rooms, and two bed-rooms: a spacious court and water: — for the women, a work-room and two bed rooms, with a court and water. In the workrooms were rollers and towels. No employment. Keeper’s salary £60, out of which he supplies each prisoner with two pennyworth of bread a day. Surgeon’s salary £xo. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. The rules, the fame as at the Devizes, are hung up, of which I here copy one article; " That the “ prisoners be obliged to sweep out and clean their rooms every day, and that they “ also wash their faces and hands, at least twice in every day, for which purpose towels “ and water tubs are to be conveniently placed for them.” In the old prison, at two of my former visits, I found the gaol-fever; and since the year 1782 the keeper and surgeon died of it; but now there is little danger of such accidents, f 1788, May jo, Prisoners 5.

SALISBURY City Gaol. The property of the Bishop. In a ruinous condition. 1787, Nov. 17, No Prisoners.

July 3d, 1788, it was taken down, and the corporation intend to build a court-room on the spot; and I hear they propose fending their felons &c. to the county gaol; which I hope the county magistrates will prevent; their gaol being too small for the general number of their own prisoners.

• A prisoner, Thomas Plat, lately died in one of the solitary cells, and the verdict of the coroner’s jury was, died by hunger and cold. Since this, the allowance was augmented as above.

f The work-house for St. Peter's parish in Marlborough, adjoining to the bridewell, is'quite out of repair, and the clay floors in holes. The rooms and inhabitants were very dirty, and had no linen or means of cleanliness. They had little or no bedding: some lay on draw on the floors, and others had a few rags to cover them on old bedsteads. It is no wonder that a putrid fever lately ran through this house. The other poor-house, in St. Mary's parish, is equally neglected: three or four lay in a bed with only rags and draw, and some of the children were almost naked..— Parish officers so inattentive to what humanity and decency require, expose the inhabitants of whole towns to the danger of contagious disorders, by such objefls wandering about the streets. I have in a former publication, mentioned an instance of a foreign gaoler being made an example of (being hanged) for starving his prisoners. Is not a breach of trull in emerfetrs of the poor, equally culpable and injurious I

C O UN T Y.

Western Circuit. DORSETSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at DORCHESTER.

A new gaol on a lad plan, and slightly built. A much better plan was proposed by Mr. Pitt, but it was over-ruled. The rooms for debtors very dirty: no free ward: not white-washed, though the act for preserving the health of prisoners is hung up. Allowance to both debtors and felons I ~lb. of bread a day. It was weight; but of bad quality, and not well baked, though the county pays for the belt. The convicts have not the is. 6d. a week, though I suspect it is charged in the bill of cravings: here and in several other counties, this article in the under-sheriff’s bills should be examined. Acquitted prisoners are kept in gaol in irons till the judge leaves the town, unless certain fees be paid to the clerk of the crown, cryer See. but if the fees be paid, they are immediately discharged; for such as have money have no fear of detention for other indictments. Gaoler’s salary £60 and ^40 for turnkeys.

1787, Nov. 16, Debtors 23. Felons &c. 8.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

SHERBORN. A new prison. Passages too narrow (three feet): cells too low; some not eight feet high: the women’s rooms will be very close, a high wall being only fix feet distant from the front: no employment. Those committed to bard labour are locked up in solitary cells, and out only one hour in a day, which seems to be, in several places, the magistrates’ mode of curing the prisoners of their habits of idleness. Allowance, a threepenny loaf every other day (weight ill. 'jcz.). Keeper a sheriffs officer. Salary £40. 1788, July 2, Prisoners 9.

DORCHESTER Town Gaol. No alteration. 1787, Nov. 16, No Prisoners.

DEVONSHIRE.

HIGH GAOL at EXETER.

I had the pleasure to find that the proprietor, John Benny Roll Elq. has given £ 1 oco towards a new gaol, which will be now under the direction of the county magistrates by an Act of Parliament. Neither the late gaoler, IVaber, who died of the gaol-fever, nor his widow who kept the gaol one year after him, nor the present gaoler have received any money from the county for the fees of acquitted prisoners, according to the act, thougii they have paid Mr. Follet, the clerk of the crown, his demand for the Judges’ Calendars.

There were three women in their sick room, and I was surprised at finding with them a Ihoe-maker at work at his trade. On inquiring into the caule, I was informed that he was the husband of one of the women who was committed Sept, ift 1785, and on the 20th of March 1786 was sentenced to be transported for seven years, for dealing

B b a calf’s

tSt

Dor-

CHESTER

County

Gaol.

County

Bridewell

Town-

Gaol.

Exeter. High Gaol

It

1 ’

{ifiiiiii

iS 6

Exeter Hi g h

Gaol.

DEVONSHIRE.

Western Circujt.

a calf’s skin. In Kov. 1786 she was ordered to the hulk at Plymouth, but on account ot lameness contracted by a fever in the gaol, she could not be removed: a fine child, which is her fifteenth, was born in the prison. Her husband persisted in declaring he would never leave her, but would go abroad with her. Such constancy of affection in prisons is very uncommon in men, though I have frequently found it in the other sex. — But by the kindness of Lord Sydney, the woman received a free pardon Dec. 27th, 1787: and I since learn that this couple are useful and worthy members of the community.

Here the assize convicts have the is. 6d. a week; but those convicted at the sessions only the county allowance of iioz. of bread, which was good, and full weight. The under-sheriff in his late bill of cravings charged the fame for both; but the latter was not allowed. However the county indemnified the gaoler, who had paid the is. 6d. a week to the fession convicts. Prisoners indicted for felony and acquitted at the assize, are not immediately discharged, as ordered by the late act, but are kept in prison several days, till the judge leaves the town; unless the clerk of the crown hand over a paper to the gaoler as an intimation that his fees are paid; then there is no pretext of detention made, for fear of other indidlments being brought against them.

I found at my last visit that the gaoler’s salary is now £100, and that the county proposes to build a new gaol, for which a situation is chosen, much better than that of the present gaol.* 17S7, Nov. 13, Felons 22. 1788, June 29, Felons 23. Deserters 2.

SHERIFF

WARD, EXETER.

Sheri ff’s Ward.

The frequent broils between the keeper and his prisoners for two or three years past ffiew the necessity of rules and orders for prisoners and keefers being fixed by parliament.

I put the fame question here, that I had proposed at York, Durham, Newcastle,

Nottingham, Leicester, Norwich &c. namely, what was the number of debtors who had flung themselves into prison, through the hope of an insolvent act during this year (1787) and who had fetded with their creditors, and gone out, on finding that the bill did not pass? The number was twenty, and their names were given me; but he said, that the number was greater in 1786, when an insolvent bill was thrown out.

I am lenfible however that there are real objects of compassion in many of our

prisons, who are even in want of the necessaries of life, having no allowance; no friends.

Such is William Lnckis, who has been here confined since April 1786 under a heavy treble penalty, on a conviction for smuggling: he was only a hired servant to a farmer, and when he came in was a hale young fellow, but is now much thinner through want: yet, such unfortunate persons, being king s fines, insolvent bills exclude.

1787, Nov. 13, Debtors 44.

a-

snl

* I would make my acknowledgments to the gentlemen of this county, for the kind and polite notice they were pleased to take of me at the quarter sessions in August la 11, relative to my suggestions on a new county gaol. I freely acknowledge my views, for many years, did not extend far from the old gaol, and it was the gentlemen themselves, or their ingenious architect Mr. Blackburn, that found out a much better situation to build on,

COUNTY

iK

Western Circuit.

DEVONSHIRE.

187

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

EXETER. The prisoners are now employed in picking oakum, and in the extensive garden. The late keeper was not so attentive and active as the present. The prison is clean and quiet: but the men’s lodging and alTociating together is destructive of morals, and disposes them to plan escapes. Allowance now the fame as at the county gaol, twenty-two ounces of bread. 1787, Nov. 13, Prisoners 22.

EXETER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

The fame close, bad prison. Windows towards the street: no court: no water.

1787, Nov. 13. Debtors 3. Felons &c. 2.

1788, June 29, - - a. - - - 11.

By the kindness of Mr. Alderman Walker, the prisoners’ allowance now is 1 \lb. of bread: their former allowance was only three halfpennyworth, which, at my lait visit weighed 1502.*

TAVISTOCK. The town prison at Tavistock is one room adjoining to the town hall.

1787, Nov. 12, No Prisoners.

PLYMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

The town gaol at Plymouth is close, and surrounded with houses: the windows are towards the street; and there is no water but what the three town serjeants occasionally hand in. The rooms were white-washed, but made very offensive by the sewers.

1787, Nov. 10, Debtors 5. Felons &c. 2.

1788, June 27, Prisoners 3.

'The Royal Hospital near Plymouth.

This noble hospital would admit of some improvements, particularly, a receiving-room, as hinted before in The Stale of the Prisons. Thu most proper situation of a receiving-room for patients is near the landing-place, between the house appropriated for the patients’ chests and bedding, and the fumigating-house: in this room, furnished with a copper, bathing tub &c. the patients should be washed, and their own clothes carried to the fumigating-house, if necessary,t without being brought into the hospital:

* The poor-house for this opulent city, is finely Situated on a rising ground out of the city. There were in it about six hundred persons; but it was not clean: the windows were almost all shut: no reparation of the young and old: there seemed to be no proper management; and there were no rules hung up.

f It has been found that the fumes of a finall quantity of brimstone in the fumigating room will not destroy all the vermin in clothes; but three pound and a half will effectually do it in twenty-four hours.

Exeter. Co U N T Y Bridewell

City

Gaol.

Tavi-

stock.

Plymouth

Town

Gaol.

Royal Hospita l.

after

188

CORNWALL.

Western Circuit.

Plymouth

Hospital.

Laun-

ceston

County

Gaol.

Bod m i N County Gaol.

Lost-

W1TH1EL

Gaol.

after this, being furnished with the hospital-dresses, they should be examined and sent to their proper wards, from a door to be broken through the wall of the hospital: with such precautions, it is obvious that the hazard of spreading contagion mull be much lessened.

A window should be made near the door of each ward, and oppohte the window in the lobby, for the better ventilation of the wards.

Two pavilions at the entrance of the hospital, contiguous to the steward’s and agent’s offices, are wanted—for a council-room, and for the purpose of surveying invalids; the present one being inconvenient, and subje&ed to noxious smells on account of its situation in a narrow passage up one pair of ftairs—likewife, for apartments for assistant-surgeons and assistant-dispensers in time of war, who, for reasons too obvious to mention, ought to sleep within the hospital.

The chapel should be on the ground floor: it is now up stairs, and the cieling is too low. It might be converted into a dispensary, much more convenient than that used at present, which is too dark, and not fufhciently large for the purpose.

A nurse’s room or cabin injures several of the wards: the others are more free and open.

CORNWALL.

COUNTY GAOL at LAUNCESTON.

No alteration, but a pump in the men’s court, and the drains properly conduced through the fewer. No divine service on Sundays.

1787, Nov. 12, Felons &c. 3.

COUNTY GAOL at BODMIN.

This gaol was not so clean, nor in such order as at my former visits; the gaoler, as I understand, having many avocations. The women felons and petty offenders were crowded together, though the opposite rooms were all empty. The chaplain’s curate, who has but a small salary, too seldom attends. No casements to the windows' in the passages; and the floors are of soft brick. The assize convicts have the king’s allowance of half a crown a week. Here were some prisoners who had been several years in confinement, by a writ de excommunicato capiendo. Gaoler’s salary £100. Turnkey fio and fuel.

1788, June 26, Debtors 18. Felons 5. Petty Offenders 24.

LOSTWITHIEL Gaol for Debtors. No alteration.

1788, June 27, Prisoners 5.

COUNTY

Western Circuit.

SOMERSETSHIRE.

■189

COUNTY GAOL at IVELCHESTER.

A new gaol, at the back of the old one, is almost finished, containing twenty-six cells (eight feet eight inches by seven feet eight inches). There are four staples and rings fixed in the floor of each cell; surely not for chaining down prisoners in their solitary confinement. This gaol being near the river, I hope the gentlemen will not forget laths, as the at! directs.* Debtors’ court too small; may be enlarged (forty feet in front) at a small expense. Allowance to felons three pennyworth of bread. Convicts have the king’s allowance of half a crown a week. Gaoler’s salary £125 in lieu of the tap. Surgeon Mr. Poole-, his salary £25. No rules hung up.

1788, July 2. Debtors 57.f Felons &c. 17.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

TAUNTON. This prtfon is dirty and neglected. In the court were fowls, geese &c. At a former visit, here was a chaplain, whose salary was £50, which was afterwards reduced to £20; but now there is no chaplain. The chapel is used for the confinement of the dirtiest prisoners, and I found it as bad as a pig. fty. No employment. Allowance three pennyworth of bread. Keeper’s salary £45. 1788, June 30, Pris. 14.

SHEPTON-MALLET. The court is considerably enlarged, and there are four new cells. The chapel is now made a lodging-room for women. Keeper, a IherifPs officer j his salary ffj 5 in lieu of the tap: many of the prisoners were heated with liquor, and smoking in his room. Prisoners of either sex, who pay the keeper is. a week for part of a bed, have the privilege of being in his house. No employment. Allowance 3d. in bread. 1788, July 1, Prisoners 35.

BRISTOL NEWGATE.

This close prison was white without, and foul within. The dungeon and several rooms very dirty. J The bath used as a vault. No allowance for mops, brooms, or towels

* I hope I shall be excused in repeating what I have had occasion to mention with respect to many prisons, that there is no bath, though baths are ordered in all gaols by the AB for preforming the health ofprifinm. I would here also remind gentlemen, that when baths are provided in compliance with the act, if they be not made convenient, so that felons in their irons may commodiously use them; and if there be no allowance for fiap and tmveli; these prisoners will receive very little if any benefit from them, and will never bathe but when actually compelled.

f In moll of the county gaols I have, in my late tours, inquired of the gaolers, how many debtors they candidly thought had flung themselves into their gaols, on what are called friendly actions, and who on the insolvent bill not passing have gone out ? After some deliberation, they have told me the number; and some have added, “ Few people know how much this country is obliged to the Chancellor for his opposing the insolvent bills.”

t I am generally moll attentive to the dungeons and rooms of thefelons; for, though the debtors’ apartments are often equally dirty, yet, besides having other privileges, their rooms are opened sooner, and Ihut much later: it is seldom that any contagious disorder begins with them.

Ivel-

C HESTER

County

Gaol.

County Bri dewells.

Shepton-

Mallet.

Bristol

Newgate

lyo

SOMERSETSHIRE.

Western Circuit.

I

1

\ t

Bristol New cate.

to the prisoners. Here, and in the bridewell, were several dogs of visiters and others. Such dirty animals should never be admitted where attention to cleanliness is so necessary to the health of the inhabitants. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. The admission of such liquors cannot be prevented, while both debtors and felons constantly beg at the grates. The allowance (till to felons only a penny loaf before trial, and a twopenny loaf after conviction: (weight of this in 1787 1 lb. yoz.). Keeper’s salary £-00. At my last visit the prison was much cleaner.

1787, Nov. 19 and 22, Debtors 21. Felons &c. 25.

1788, May 27, - - 24. - - - 25. Transports 18.

City

Bridewell

BRISTOL City Bridewell. No alteration, but much cleaner than at any of my former visits; and at my last visit every room was perfectly clean. The prisoners now are not defrauded in their bread allowance: (twopenny loaf in 1787 1 lb. yoz.). Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. No employment. Salary £30 to the present keeper; the fame as to the former.

1787, Nov. 19 and 22, Prisoners 16.* 1788, May 27, Prisoners 14.

Bath BATH City Gaol. No alteration. The prison clean and quiet. Convenient Gaol' rooms for common-fide debtors. The workshop is seventeen feet by thirteen. Keeper’s salary £31: 10: o. 1787, Nov. 18, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 6.

Bath Infirmary.

Infir- May 29th 1788. Cleaner and fresher than at my visit last year: several windows open;

MA but many of the upper sashes do not let down, nor do any of those in the passages or

staircases; which is the more necessary in such close and confined places as the site of this infirmary, f

Bridce- BRIDGEWATER Town Gaol. The room in which prisoners from the county

WJTEI1 gaol are confined during the assize is twenty feet by eighteen feet nine inches. Here, the gaoler laid he had sometimes thirty prisoners, who were almost stifled. Only one window; another that was opposite being flopped up. The gaoler pays the hard tax on windows, £3.: 15: 6. Salary none: has license for beer. 1788, June 30, Debtors 3.

* The Brlftol Infirmary now building in the close and confined situation of the old one, will be a monument of the unskilfulness of the fiubficribers, or of their inattention to what constitutes a healthy hospital, when a fine situation was proposed, at no great distance, and was strongly recommended by the gentlemen of the faculty.

Colfion's hospital for one hundred boys. Their uniform is blue with an orange-coloured lining. The school and bed-rooms were clean: the boys looked healthy: every thing regular and in order. The daily allowance of bread (which weighed only 120a:.) is toofcanty. They have 6oz. at dinner, three for breakfast, and three for {upper. (The bread allowance was lately increastd to the boys at Christ Church Hospital London.)

f I am generally attentive to the staircases and passage windows in hospitals, that the wards, by apertures, (as at Leeds) may be freftiened from them. I have often mentioned the upper falhes being fixed; for if lofty and moveable, the fnialleft opening produces a circulation of the stagnant air, and that so imperceptibly to the patients, that there is little danger of either the nurses, or them (hutting the windows.

COUNT V

Northern Circuit,

YORKSHIRE.

<9l

NORTHERN CIRCUIT

COUNTY GAOL, YORK CASTLE.

The felons’ cells are now floored with unjeajoned oak. Their court is properly paved with broad stones, and the drain is carried through the vault, so that the passage is not offensive: there are also iron palisades in the castle yard, to prevent access within ten feet of the court. Water is laid in, but there is no bath. Here I found the present Iread-inJpeUor, Mr. Wation, who has a salary of twenty guineas a year; and I have often wilhed there were such a person to inspell, weigh, and deliver the bread to prisoners in London. No rules or orders relative to the admission of liquors. Gaoler’s salary £300 in lieu of the tap. 1787, Aug. 23, Debtors 65. Felons &c. 38.

1788, Jan. 11, - - 50. - - - 51.*

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

IVEST-RIDING, WAKEFIED. A new house for the keeper, and many solitary cells in dark, passages. It would have been better to have built a new prison in a more elevated and healthy situation. Four or five of the prisoners were ill. Allowance id. a day, and half their earnings. Weight of the twopenny loaf 1 lb. 30Z. Few , or none were at work. Keeper’s salary now /132. 1788, Jan. 9, Prisoners 54.

York

Castle.

County

Bride-

wells.

NORTH-RIDING, THIRSK. 1787, Aug. 22, n Prisoners. A new prison is just finished at Northallerton. No water in the women’s court.

EAST-RIDING, BEVERLEY. Here are three new rooms, but it is still an inconvenient prison. Employment now picking oakum at 4d. a stone. I found this prison, as at my former visits, quiet-, the present and late keeper for many years past not felling beer. Salary now £30. 1788, Jan. 13, Prisoners 9.

YORK CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

There are four cells for the felons, down sixteen steps; only one day-room, in which Cur

a boy for picking pockets was an associate with two highwaymen. On my mentioning to Gaol,

the gaoler that liquors were given from the street in at the debtors’ windows, he replied,

I cannot help their being often intoxicated.

1787, Aug. 23, Debtors 4. Felons &c. 3.

1788, Jan. 11, - - 10. - - - 6.

* Both debtors and felons are here employed, as at Lincoln castle, Norwich castle, Ipswich, and some few other gaols, in making garters, purses, nets, laces &c. many of the debtors have plain cheap machines for weaving garters, similar to those at Lincoln. It always gives me pleasure to find prisoners employed, as they are then more healthy: it also diverts them, and is a mean of procuring them clean linen, or a little milk, or meat to their bread; and I remember an old gaoler’s observation, “ that it kept his prisoners out of mischief.”

YORE

YORKSHIRE.

Northern Circuit.

192 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit,

York YORK City Bridewell. The wall that obstructed the air is removed further from

City the cejjS) anc[ tw0 new cejjs are Water is laid in from the river Ouse. Employ-

l5R I DEWELL . . J I J

ment, pounding tile-fherds, at 31/. a bushel. Keeper’s salary now £30.

1787, Aug. 23, Prisoners 14. 1788, Jan. 11, Prisoners 10.

St.Peter's St. PETER’s Gaol. No alteration. 1787, Aug. 23, No Prisoners.

Gaol.

1788, Jan. ii. Debtors 3.

Beverley Gaol. BEVERLEY Town Gaol. No alteration, but the tap taken away. Keeper has no salary. 1788, Jan. 13, Prisoners 2. Deserter 1.

Hall- garth. BEVERLEY Hall-Garth, for Debtors. No alteration. Keeper has no salary: no licence, as he fays; but on a board there was written, “ Ale fold here by Samuel Tadman.”* 1788, Jan. 13, Prisoner 1.

Leeds Gaol. LEEDS Town Gaol. No alteration, but now barrack beds in the rooms. Gaoler’s salary: j: o.J 1788, Jan. 6, Prisoner 1. Leeds Infirmary.

Infir- mary. This is one of the left hojpitah in the kingdom. In the wards, which are fifteen feet eight inches high, there is great attention to cleanliness; and fix circular apertures or ventilators open into a passage five feet and a half wide. There are no fixed tellers: no bugs in the beds. Many are here cured of compound fradtures, who would lose their limbs in the unventilated and offensive wards of some other hospitals. J Kingston * In my various tours, I have often heard of the death of one or more prisoners by intoxication and quarrels inprisons. Here one had lately been unhappily killed. f In all manufacturing towns it would be proper to have solitary cells for the confinement of faulty apprentices and servants for a few days, where they should be constrained to work, and have no visiters unless clergymen: for a short term would probably do more to effect a reformation, than three or four months confinement; as it is generally found that in the first two or three days prisoners seem to have their minds most affected and penitent. A county magistrate said, “ we have thought it necessary to retrain from commitment in many cases where that mode of proceeding would otherwise have been salutary, from a full persuasion of the total unfitness of the places of confinement or of correction, to answer those reformatory purposes for which a well-regulated reltraint is peculiarly calculated.” j Here is a well-regulated work-house, which I found at this, and at my former visits, clean and quiet. There were 49 men, 65 women, 38 boys and girls. The provisions were good of the fort, and the dietary may be acceptable to some of my readers. The Bill of Fare for Leeds Work-house. Breakfast. Everyday, milk pottage and bread. Dinner. Sunday, Mutton and broth, bread and beer. Monday, Rice milk, bread and beer.

Dinner-

Northern Circuit.

YORKSHIRE.

Kingston upon HULL TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

The old gaol is disused, and a new one is built in a fine situation out of the town; which, with some small alteration, would be a good gaol. The mayor and aldermen attentively inspect it, each in his month, and write their observations in a book. Allowance, 3d. a day. A worthy clergyman attends on Wednesdays, without salary.* No licence for beer: no /alary to the gaoler. The rules which were hung up I here copy.

1788, Jan. 14, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 4.

Dinner.

Supper.

Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday,

Dumplings and beer.

Bread, cheese and beer.

Beef and broth, bread and beer. The fame as Monday.

Drink pottage and bread.

Sunday and Thursday, Bread and broth, or broth and beer.

Monday, futfiday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, Milk pottage and bread.

The proportion of bread, for each meal, is one wheat cake, weight j lb. divided into eight parts, viz. two of 7 oz. for men, four of 6 ox. for women, and two of 5 ox. for children.

The proportion of hefh meat, is 1 Gib. of beef or mutton for twenty persons, on an average.

Ditto 1 lb. of rice and iocs, of sugar, with pimento, salt and flour for ditto.

Ditto 1405s. of pafle each dumpling for adults, and 8 ox. for children.

Ditto one gallon of milk for pottage for twenty persons.

Ditto one third of a quart sale measure) of beer at each dinner, Saturday excepted.

Ditto 6 ox. of cheese for adults, and 405s. for children. With full liberty to adults to exchange their portion of beer for bread, or bread for beer.

At this, and several other work-houses, I collected the rules and orders for the better government of the poor; on which, not being the main object in view, I make no observations.

* In the poor-house there were fifty-four men, one hundred and three women, sixty-four boys, and fifty-four girls. The house and the numerous inhabitants were, as at my former visits, clean and neat. The placidnefs of their countenances bespoke the attention of the notable matron Mary Ecken, who has been there thirty-one years.

I would lay great fircfs on the regular catechising of children in all work-houses twice a week. This exercise might be highly beneficial also to many older persons there, who are very ignorant, and I am fully persuaded can receive but little advantage from attending upon public worship and hearing sermons there, without some more easy and familiar inhruction, to inform their minds, and enlarge their comprehension.— On catechising likewise, and plain, serious, familiar discourse on the great practical principles and. duties of religion, the beneficial effects of Sunday schools will in a great degree depend.—Pilfering and healing are frequently owing at firh to the want of proper inhruction in early life; and these naturally lead to the commission of more enormous offences; for, corrupt as our nature is, robbery and murder are seldom, if ever, the firh crimes of the unhappy wretches who commit them; but when once persons have entered upon evil courses, they commonly advance by hahy heps, till they become totally depraved and abandoned to all kinds ofwickednefs.

C c

Hull

Town

Gaol.

RULES

194

Northern Circuit.

Hull

Rui>es.

YORKSHIRE.

RULES and ORDERS ESTABLISHED FOR THE BETTER GOVERNMENT OF THE

GAOL, of the Town Kikgjton-upon-Hull, and County of the fame Town, pursuant to the Statute 32d. Geo. II. Chap. 28/^.

I. If the gaoler, turnkey, or other officer, or any prisoner, require or demand any money from a prisoner

at his entrance, either for garnish, chamber money, cards, seeing Lucy Tower, or on any other pretence whatever, such persons, if a prisoner, shall have no share of the corporation box for one month j and, if the gaoler, turnkey, or other officer, he shall forfeit to the debtors* fund five shillings, and return the money so obtained from the prisoner.

II. Every debtor shall retire quietly to his chamber between Lady Day and Michaelmas, at nine in the evening;

between Michaelmas and Lady Day at eight; and it shall be optional for him to retire sooner j the out-doors shall be opened between Lady Day and Michaelmas at fix in the morning, and between Michaelmas and Lady Day at seven.

III. For the better keeping good order, no stranger shall be permitted to view the Inside of the gaol without

paying to the officer attending him three-pence; nor to play within the walls of the prison, unless in company with the debtors, or with their permission.

IV. The gaoler and his officers shall treat the several prisoners in his custody with tendemefs and humanity;

and the prisoners on their part, shall behave to them with decency and due submission.

V. Any prisoner who shall abuse, insult, or ill-treat the gaoler, turnkey, or any other person in the gaol,

shall forfeit two shillings and sixpence, for every such offence; and if the gaoler or turnkey abuse, insult, or ill-treat any of the prisoners, he shall forfeit the like sum for each offence.

VI. If any prisoner shall have just cause of complaint against the gaoler, or any of Ms assistants, the fame

shall be made to the inspector; and if the grievance be not redressed, to the next quarter sessions of the peace.

VII. The gaoler, or turnkey, shall at all times within the stated hours attend at the door, and shall not unrea-

fonably refuse the admittance of persons enquiring for debtors.

VIII. Debtors may fend for their necessaries, at all convenient times in the day, without Mndrance or molestation.

But the gaoler may refirain Ms prisoners from the use of ale, or firong beer, for the purpose only of preventing drunkenness and disorder; but on no account shall exercise this authority, unless occasioned by the improper conduct of the prisoners.

IX. If any charities be bellowed on the prisoners, the gaoler shall carefully avoid all partiality in the distribution

of them, and divide them with as much equality as possible.

X. Every prisoner who shall attempt, or assist in an escape, shall be committed to close confinement: but no

debtor shall be confined in an unusual place or manner, except by order of the inspector, or of the justices, or for a breach of those rules, as herein directed.

XI. If a clergyman attends the prison, due reverence and respect shall be paid to him; and every prisoner

who is able, shall attend divine service; and any person who shall be guilty of indecent or improper behaviour during the service, shall, for the first offence, be confined, if a debtor, to Ms or her chamber for one week; and if a felon, to Ms or her cell; for the second offence a fortnight j and for the third offence, one calendar month.

XII. Every prisoner who shall practice swearing, cursing, railing, drunkenness, or other irregular or indecent

behaviour, shall forfeit for every such offence, one Hulling.

XIII. Care

Northern Circuit.

YORKSHIRE.

195

XIII. Care {hall be taken at all convenient opportunities to open the windows of the gaol, particularly in the

felons’ rooms, and all the passages, in order to admit fresh air, and preserve the health of the prisoners; and the felons shall be brought into the felons’ yard, and continued there at least three hours every day, when the weather will permit, and no candles, other lights, or fire, shall be admitted into any of the prisoners cells; none of the debtors or felons’ wives, children, or other of their families shall be permitted to live in the gaol.

XIV. If it be found necessary or requisite from the flats or condition of any prisoner, such prisoner shall, as

often as may be convenient, be bathed and cleansed in the bath belonging to the gaol, and the clothes of every prisoner shall be aired and cleansed in the hot oven, and particularly before they arc brought into the court.

XV. The debtors’ common room, passages and stairs shall be swept out daily by the debtor called the constable,

or at her or his expence, the debtor who came in lafi to be constable.

XVI. The felons’ tubs, &c. shall be emptied and cleansed at eight o’clock in winter, and seven in summer,

or sooner.

Hull

Rules.

XVII. No prisoner, or other person, shall throw ashes, rubbish, or other dirt into any part of the yard, except

in such places as shall be appointed by the gaoler, for that purpose; nor make water against any part of the building, under the penalty of forfeiting for each offence, if a prisoner four-pence, if any other person sixpence.

XVIII. No person shall play at quoits, skittles, or other games, that may injure the grass, or the garden, on

the front or well fide of the building; but shall confine their amusements to the east fide j and to avoid gaming, any persons playing for, or winning money at any game, shall forfeit one shilling for every such offence.

XIX. Each convict shall be confined in a separate cell, and the several prisoners of different sexes shall, as much

as pollible, be kept apart from each other.

XX. No prisoner shall be obliged to sleep with one that is diseased.

XXL No dog, cat, or poultry shall be kept in the gaol by any prisoner.

XXII. Whoever shall fee or be informed of any of these rules being broken, or any other offence of any of the prisoners, shall give immediate notice of it to the inspector, or in his absence, to the gaoler.

XXIII. All fines and forfeitures imposed by these rules and orders on debtors and others, except the felons, shall

be kept in a box secured with two locks, and fixed in the debtors’ day-room, for the sole purpose of purchasing such necessaries as may be agreed upon by a majority of the debtors, for the use of their day-room, and such instruments as they may think necessary for their reasonable amusement and exercise; the keys of the box to be kept by two persons to be appointed by such majority, and the forfeits of the felons to be laid out by the gaoler, in butchers meat for their use.

XXIV. If any prisoner refuse or neglect, for the space of one hour, to pay any penalty or forfeiture incurred as

abovementioned, every such prisoner shall immediately be committed to close confinement, and a diet of bread and water for forty-eight hours.

These rules and orders to be hung up in the gaoler’s common kitchen, and a copy in every common day-room in the said gaol.

TABLE OF FEES,

For the lodging and board of each prisoner per week -

For each prisoner when he has a room and bed of the gaoler and diets himself, per week - For each prisoner when he finds his own bed and diet, per week -

For the discharge of each prisoner -----

C C 2

c s. D.

o 7 0

O 2 0

o o 6

o 13 4

To

Northern Circuit.

196

YORKSHIRE.

Hull

£• S. D.

Rules. T0 the turnkey for the fame

o 1 4

026 046

O I o

026

If two or more debtors lie in the fame bed, to be paid amongst them weekly

Every prisoner that will eat with the gaoler to pay for his diet, three meals a day, per week

For a copy of every commitment, if demanded -----

For every certificate of commitment in order to a habeas corpus - For the copy of every sheriffs warrant, if demanded -

For signing every certificate in order to obtain a supersedeas, or a rule or order of court

o

o

2 6

1 o

We his majesty’s justices of the peace for the town, and county of the town of ICingfton-upon-Hull, assembled at

The gaoler is to take notice, that by the 3 2d. Geo. II. c. 21. f. 12. he shall not directly nor indirectly take of

chamber rent there, release or discharge, than shall be allowed in the said table of fees, on pain to forfeit for

Bridewell Kingston upon HULL Bridewell. No alteration in this (loje and offenfvve prison. Employment, pounding tile-fherds at 0,1 d. a bushel.

1788, Jan 14, Debtor i. Petty Offenders 3. Lunatics 3.

Sheffield SHEFFIELD Prison for Debtors, is the property of the Duke of Norfolk. The

court is enlarged, and the late tap room is a debtor’s kitchen. In the two rooms of the common fide debtors, die windows which were towards the street are properly stopt lip. Though these are improvements, yet it is a bad prison, and much too small. No infirmary. For common fide debtors of both sexes there are only two rooms, which are also their night-rooms. — Persons are sometimes confined here for so small a sum as sixpence and the fees. See the Act of the Court Baron 29th of Geo. II.

town hall, which open into a narrow passage. This prison is on a plan by far too contrafted for a populous and manufacturing town, so that the faulty apprentices are sent to the house of correction at Wakefield; where they are often ruined by aflociating with criminals. (See the notes under Birmingham and Leeds.) 1788, Aug. 5, Pnf. 1.

» The keeper told me that then there were near three hundred warrants, and often many more, but the prison is so small they could not be executed. Debtors are frequently brought here for the non-payment of their ale-house scores; for the occasion of the imprisonment of nine debtors out of ten in large manufactming towns is drunkenness and idleness. I have often wilhed that in all bills for small dells, there was a clause to prohibit anejls far debts contracted in public hctd'r.

the general quarter fdlions of the peace held in and for the said town and county, have examined the above rules and orders, with the table of fees there underwritten, and do allow and confirm the fame, the thirteenth dayofjnly, 17 86.

H. Ethcrington, Mayor. R. Rcalnijfe, Recorder. John Melting.

any prisoner for debt, damages, colls, or contempt any other fee for his commitment or coming into-gaol.

every such offence (exclusive of the penalties inflicted by former laws) to the party aggrieved fftj pounds

1788, Aug. 5, Prisoners 16.*

Town SHEFFIELD Town Gaol. Here is an addition of two small rooms under the

BAThEY.

Northern Circuit,

YORKSHIRE.

*97

BATLEY. No alteration: the prison dirty: the late keeper died by drinking:

his widow pays the chief bailiff £21 per annum: the tap is still continued.

1788, Jan. 8, Debtors 22.

HALIFAX Prison for the Manor of Wakefield, the property of the Duke of Leeds. No alteration: quite out of repair: the keeper still pays £24 rent, window-tax &c.

1788, Jan. 8, Debtors 4.

HALIFAX Prison. A room on the ground floor adjoining to the engine house. By a room or two built over them for the keeper, escapes might be prevented,

A felon had just broken out. 1788, Jan. 8, No Prisoners.*

PONTEFRACT Town Gaol. The prison is under the town-hall. The passage to the two cells is called the room for debtors. No fire-place. The windows of the cells are towards the street. No court: no water. 1788, Jan. 10, No Prisoners. j*

1 * In looking into the Cloth-hall in this town I was struck with the elegant neatness and plainness of the

building, as affording many good hints for a penitentiary house; I therefore determined to give the elevation of part of this building in my plan. (See plate xx.). The area is 110 yards by 90: the building is quadrangular, containing 315 rooms; their size twelve feet and a half by eight: the windows 3 feet wide: the flair cases and passages are of done; the latter 6 feet wide to the iron baluflrade, and also, •very properly, 3 feet 5 inches high. The rules and orders are hung up on the staircases.

f At Acb-worth, near Ponte iradt, there is a school belonging to the people called Quakers jj in a healthy and •fine situation. The house was built as an appendage to the foundling hospital, but was purchased (for about ^7000) at the desire of that excellent man Dr. Fother gill, and intended for the education, maintenance and clothing of children of both {exes whose parents are not in affluence. They are infbufted in reading, writing and accompts, and the girls in knitting, spinning, plain needle-work and domestic occupations. A small part of every day is devoted to {ilent and serious thoughtfulness, which does not seem tedious or irksome to the children, for they are habituated from their early infancy, at ilated times, to silence and attention.

The house is a good and spacious building, and well adapted for the proper separation of the boys and girls. No children are admitted younger than nine years of age, except orphans, and but few remain in the house after they are fourteen. As the school is partly supported by donations and legacies, the expense to the parents is easy (about eight guineas a year for each child). The general average number of children is three hundred and ten. From the 18th of October 1779, to the end of 1787, nine hundred and ninety-two children have been admitted. Of these only twelve have died; three of them by the small-pox in 1782, in the natural way. Of thirty-two who were inoculated, none died.

At my visit, Jan. 10th, 1788, there were one hundred and forty-two boys, and one hundred and eight girls, neat and clean, at their several employments, and the school-rooms were in great order. The children were calm and quiet, and their countenances indicated that this did not proceed from fear of the fe verity of their mailers or mistresses. (I well remember an expression of the doctor’s to me with reference to this school, “ we have got a person at the head of it, who is made for the purpose. ”) Their bed-rooms were clean and in order: the children (properly) lie on hair mattresses, and in each room is an ulher or mistress.—I omit the diet table, because I do not approve of beer for children, nor of meat oftener than once or twice in a week.

H Thrs much respected people, with whom I have passed many agreeable hours of my life, I trust will believe me when I say I cordially join in opinion with Dr, Per aval, who in his Disfertations fays, “ The people Improperly, because opprobrhujiy, called

Quakers, certainly merit a very high degree of esteem from their fellow citizens, on account of their industry, temperance, * peaceableness, and catholic spirit of charity.” To which I will add, as an amiable property, their uncommon neatness in their person;- and houses,

Batley.

Halifax

Prisons.

Pontefract G ao l

County

DURHAM.

Northern Circuit.

198

York

County

Hospital.

County Hospital at York.

The four wards (two for each sex) were clean and quiet, and not in the lead: offensive. The bedsteads were iron, with wood laths; the furniture linen: the beds were hair on draw mattresses. Such beds are the most proper, as the hair when walked, dried and picked is as good as new. Patients at entrance are ungenerously obliged to advance ior. each for wadring their linen &c. but if they are soon discharged, part of the money is returned.

DURHAM.

Durham

County

Gaol.

Cou NTY Bridewell

COUNTY GAOL at DURHAM.

Here is a division in one or two of the felons’ large rooms; and the workmen were enclosing the vacant piece of ground for a court. The gaoler has neither salary nor licence. The prison was quiet. No persons were drinking or carousing, as I have seen at my former visits. Gaol delivery only once a year. Several debtors immediately went out, on the insolvent bill not pading. 1787, Aug. 21, Debtors 16. Felons &c. 13.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

Two rooms under the dreet are added to this prison, which are damp and close; one of them is the lodging-room for men. The magistrates have now> very properly, their own keeper. 1787, Aug. 21, Prisoners 10.

NEWCASTLE upon TYNE.

NEWCASTLE TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

Newcastle A clean prison: proper bedding for bebtors and felons: I never found any dck prisoners. Ga'o'1 Gaol delivery only once a year. By the ingenuity of one of the convicts, several had just broken out. Confinement by night in solitary cells would prevent such escapes. Gaoler’s salary ^80 in lieu of the tap. 1787, Aug. 18, Debtors 14. Felons &c. 10.

Bridewell NEWCASTLE Bridewell. Proper bedding and firing are allowed. The prisoners were spinning. The rooms want white-washing. 1787, Aug. 19, Prisoners 6.*

* Ntmafik Infirmary is in an airy situation: the wards were clean; the floors of wood, not brick, as at Edinburgh hospital which I had seen a few days before; the bed-furniture woollen. (Linen seems better, as being more eafdy washed, and not so retentive of feents). No water closets to the wards: a good cold bath, but by the appearance of the patients seldom used: the meat good, but the bread heavy. Aug. 19th, 1787, 74. Patients.

COUNTY

Northern Circuit.

NORTHUMBERLAND.

199

COUNTY GAOL at MORPETH.

No alteration. Gaoler John Blake: salary,f6o in lieu of the tap. The late gaoler, a man Morpeth of a remarkably vigorous constitution, destroyed himself by drinking, in the prime of C£,“^Y life. Allowance to felons (jld. per day) still paid only once a month. Their dungeon cloje and offensive; not white-washed. No court for felons, though the gaol delivery is only once a year.* Here a woman, committed for receiving a stolen handkerchief, though lately brought to bed, was in heavy irons, which were taken off while I was there.

1787, Aug. 18, Debtors 15. Felons &c. 12.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

MORPETH. Keeper now John Doxford, and he lives in the house: salary /jo. He Bridewell is a clothier, and the prisoners were carding and spinning. The prison not white-washed. No court. 1787, Aug. 18, Prisoners 2.

ALNWICK. At Alnwick Castle there are the remains of an ancient prison. The Alnwick. entrance is through a narrow passage, sixteen feet long, to a room eleven feet four inches by ten feet four. At the centre, there is a descent by a ladder, through an aperture (two feet four inches, by one foot ten inches) into a dark and damp dungeon, about eight feet and a half square and eleven feet high. Such dungeons, and even much worse have I seen in old castles: it being the general mode of confinement in barbarous ages, when the security of prisoners was alone considered.

BERWICK upon TWEEDf Town and County Gaol. No alteration. The Berwick rooms are over the town-hall. Sewers offensive. No court. 1787, Aug. 17, Debt. 3. Tweed

Gaol.

CUMBERLAND.

COUNTY GAOL at CARLISLE.

No alteration, but a pump with fine water. Men and women felons still crowded Carlisle into two small rooms, which at night are very cloje and hot Acquitted prisoners are C^UNTY kept in irons till the judge leaves the town. Four of the convicts experienced Lord Loughborough's kindness by a pardon at the summer circuit-1787. A new gaol is proposed to be built in the castle yard, where, I doubt not, there will be a proper

* At the summer assize in 1787, the felons of both sexes were, as usual, conveyed to Newcastle, and confined in the damp dungeon seven nights. I heard that the county hall was presented; but was not the presentment of this unhealthy dungeon equally necessary, where the water was running down the walls in August 1787

f I looked into the poor-house at Berwick, and found on a warm day every window Ihut, and consequently, the rooms very close and offenjive.

separation

t

200

CUMBERLAND.

Northern Circuit.

Caklisle. icparadon of the l'exes.—Allowance to debtors 9 d. to some 1 s. a week, and felons iW.

paid only on Saturdays. Keeper’s salary augmented from £21 to £61 in lieu of the tap. On mentioning the abolition of the tap to Mr. Lojh, the surgeon, he said, I am persuaded the prisoners would be healthier if they had proper nourishment, and only milk admitted into the gaol;* and they would be quieter; for when any liquor is brought them, they are riotous and quarreliome, and plotting to break out. Gaol delivery only once a year.

1788, Jan. 2, Debtors 32.f Felons &c. 20. Deserters 2.

City CARLISLE City Gaol. No alteration. Only one room over the gateway.

Gaol. pj0 Water. 1788, Jan. 2, No Prisoners.

* “ One circumdance peculiarly worthy of notice, is the perfect and uninterrupted health of the inhabitants of “ New Zealand. In all the visits made to their towns, where old and young, men and women, crouded about 4i our voyagers, they never observed a single person who appeared to have any bodily complaint; nor among ts the numbers that were seen naked, was once perceived the slighted: eruption upon the (kin, or the lead: mark “ which indicated that such an eruption had formerly existed. Another proof of the health of these people is the “ facility with which the wounds they at any time receive are healed. In the man who had been (hot with a musquet-ball through the fle(by part of his arm, the wound seemed to be so well digeded, and in so fair tc a way of being perfectly healed, that if Mr. Cook had not known that no application had been made to it, lie tc declared that he should certainly have enquired, with a very intered«d curiosity, after the vulnerary herbs t( and surgical art of the country. An additional evidence of human nature’s being untainted with disease in “ New Zealand, is the great number of old men with whom it abounds. Many of them, by the loss of their te hair and teeth, appeared to be very ancient, and yet none of them were decrepid. Although they were “ not equal to the young in muscular drength, they did not come in the lead behind them with regard to chear-“ fulness and vivacity. Water, as far as our navigators could discover, is the unwerfal and only liquor of the “ New Zealanders. It is greatly to be vviflied, that their happiness in this respect may never be destroyed by f( such a connection with the European nations, as shall introduce that fondness for spirituous liquors which hath been so fatal to the Indians of North America.”

See the Life of Captain Cook; by Dr. Kippis, Chap. II. p. 100. 1788.

f Here was a prfoner, lately the widow of an old gentleman, who left her an estate of ,£300 per annum and about £7000 in mortgages. She was afterwards married in Scotland to a Mr. Milbourne of this city, who soon spent £4000, but upon some disagreement (he refused to give up the mortgages'of the other ^£3000. By an attachment from the court of chancery, her husband sent her to the common gaol, which confinement prevented her compliance with an order for appearance at that court in fifteen days of St Hilary's term next ensuing. At fird (he was on the mader’s fide; but the late gaoler, after cruelly seizing her clothes &c.. for chamber-rent, turned her to the common fide. Her room (nine feet and a half by eight and a half) has no fire-place. She, not having the county allowance, supports herself by spinning and knitting, and the occasional kindness of her late hu(band’s relations, while her present husband is living and rioting on her estate.

By a letter dated the 14th of October 1788, from a respectable gentleman at Carlisle, I am informed that Mrs. Milbourne is dill in the gaol, and that for above two years, Mr. Milbourne did not give her one farthing, her subsidence being'wholly on occasional charities, and the small earnings of spinning, at which employment (he could not get more than 4d. but now by practice and extremely close application (when health permits) can earn \od. a week. In March lad her husband sent her twenty shillings, and in October 178S (twenty-seven weeks after) the fame sum. The judices lad quarter sessions commferating her hardships, have allowed her the county bounty; the fird shilling of which, this moded poor woman received, the 1 ith of Oft. 1788.

COUNTY

Northern Circuit.

WESTMORLAND.

co i

COUNTY GAOL at APPLEBY.

No alteration but two rooms built by the new gaoler, when he had the tap.* In lieu of the tap, he has now only £5 from the county. Allowance to felons 4 d. in money. Gaol delivery only once a year: one of the prisoners will remain ten or eleven months before his trial. 1788, Jan. 4, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 6.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

APPLEBY. No alteration. The two rooms, damp and dark, were lately flooded. No court. 1788, Jan. 4, Prisoner 1.

KENDAL. Here is a new prison for a county bridewell and the town gaol. It con-fists of four secure cells (eleven feet by nine feet two inches, and eight feet high) which are called the gaol: on the doors are curious locks which cannot be picked, made by an ingenious workman in that town. There are twelve rooms (thirteen feet by eleven, and eight feet high) on the two floors above, some of which are called the debtors’ rooms, and four are occupied by the gaoler. None of the rooms were clean, though the house is new, and a fine stream of water is constantly running in the court. No allowance but their earnings. Gaoler’s salary £7: 11: o and £7:11:0 as keeper of the bridewell.f 1788, Jan. 1, Prisoners 6.

LANCASHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, LANCASTER CASTLE.

This prison was clean and quiet. Many of the convicts had only a single ring; and from a view of the prisoners in their rooms, and at chapel, I am persuaded the gaoler, Mr. Higgins, is humane and attentive. J Allowance to the debtors who are poor, two sixpenny loaves a week; to felons 1 \lb. of household bread a day, and a pennyworth of potatoes, butter, or cheese; and on Sunday, half a pound of good beef without bone, and a quart of broth. Coals both to debtors and felons. The assize convicts have not the half crown a week. The good old surgeon, Mr. Wright, constantly refuses the debtors’ application for spirituous liquors, as he well knows the quarrels, riot and confusion, such admission has frequently caused

* The late gaoler killed himself by drinking; and I find, in my visits, that many others have died by this vice; the taps in the gaols having been a very llrong temptation to them.

t I found the msork-house clean and quiet, as at my former visits. The cielings of all the rooms are too low, only seven feet high; the kitchen is improperly placed, and paved with pebbles, and there is no infirmary.

I In attending the service here on a Sunday, I observed some of the debtors much a fie died at this passage in one of the psalms which was read that day, O let the forromsfuljlgbing of the prisoners come before thee, Psal. lxxix. 12. which gave me the hint of taking it for a motto to my present publication.

D d in

Appleby

County

Gaol.

County

Brioe-

wells.

Lan-

caster

Castle.

202 LANCASHIRE. Northern Circuit.

Lan- caster. Castle. in gaols.*—1 was glad to find rules and orders hung up, and shall take the liberty to make a few observations on some of them, as several other counties may probably adopt the good regulations here enforced. — A very convenient house is built for the gaoler; and alterations are intended for the separation of prisoners, and folitaiy cells, f I have lately been informed that these improvements are now carrying on under the direction of Mr. Harrison, architect in Lancaster. Lord Loughborough, on the summer circuit 1787, very humanely interceded for the pardon of nine of the belt behaved convicts, and I hear that their conduit since has shewn them worthy of the favour. Debtors committed to this gaol in 1778, 109; 1779, 1331 1780, 126; 1781, 96; 1782, 121; 1783, 120; 1784, 97; 1785, 118 i 1786, 127; 1787, 125. Total 1172. In this county the law is more severe against debtors than in any other, owing to the court of common pleas that is held in it. The proceedings against debtors who are arrested by process from that court are ruled by the assizes, and not by the terms of the courts above; so that a debtor may (lay in gaol twelve months before the plaintiff files his declaration: whereas a debtor in London, York Sec. is declared against in two terms. If the plaintiff proceed, it is two years before he can take the benefit of the Acts of Parliament, though his debt be only £10. Gaoler’s lalary £210 in lieu of the tap, fees, chamber rent See. Several debtors came in at the close of a former year, in hopes of an insolvent act. 1787, Dec. 29, Debtors 53. Felons Sec. 65, including 37 Convicts.

Rules. RULES, ORDERS and REGULATIONS, TO BE OBSERVED A.NO ENFORCED FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COUNTY GAOL, IN THE CASTLE OF LANCASTER. I. No abuse, ill-treatment, quarrelling, or affray to be suffered amongst the prisoners; nor drunkenness, cursing, swearing, obfeene or indecent language, nor gaming by dice, cards, or any other method whatsoever, on pain of being punished by closer confinement, fettering, and withholding their allowance;

* Dr. M‘Farla)iy one of the mini lie rs of Canongate, Edinburgh; in his Inquiries concerning the Poor; (1782.) fays, that “ the habit of drinking spirituous liquors to excess has become so frequent among the common people, that we can hardly walk the ilreets without seeing its shocking effects. There is no vice that has ruined a greater number of tradesmen, or brought more families to misery, than this. Its effects, in general, are such, that, before mid-day the unhappy victim is unqualified for business. Artificially exhilarated, he goes on, regardless of the consequences; and does not retire from the seene of dissipation, till both his money and credit are exhausted. In a very short time, the whole frame is debilitated, and he is rendered incapable of any continued labour. When this practice is confirmed by habit, they mufl have recourse to strong liquors to brace their trembling nerves; so that, even in the mofl abjett slate of poverty, every pittance they receive is expended in this manner. It is an oljeB worthy of the attention of the legislature,. and of every friend to mankind, to do-what is possible to restrain so great an evil.” f It may be asked, of what size I would wish prisoners5 solitary night-rooms to be ? I answer, ten feet long, ten feet high, and eight feet wide; thus adopting a mean between the two extremes allowed by the act of parliament for penitentiary houses. (19th Geo. III.). Warming the rooms in any manner is unnecessary to these. in health bqt the sick mu ft be provided for. whicK

Northern Circuit.

203

which punishments the gaoler is hereby authorized and required to inflid: for the above offences, or other acts of disobedience to these rules and orders; but not to continue any of the above punishments for more than /even days, without a written order from one or more justice or justices of the peace for the county of Lancaster.

Lan-

caster

Rules,.

il-

ly.

y.

VI.

VII

IX.

X.

The gaoler shall provide and keep one or more books, in which he shall write down the name of every prisoner who shall in any wise behave ill, or be refradory and disobedient, specifying his offence, and the nature and term of his punishment; and he shall also insert the names of such prisoners who shall observe these rules, regularly attend public worftiip, and behave in a peaceable, orderly manner. And he shall regularly produce these books to the visiting justices, and at the aftlzes and quarter sessions.

The gaoler shall not, on any account or pretence whatsoever, demand or take from any prisoner in his custody, or any other person, any money or other matter, for fees, garnifti money, chamber rents. &c. or for and at the entrance or discharge of any prisoner.

The gaoler shall moll strictly forbid and prohibit the demanding or taking any fees, garnifti, or other money, by the prisoners, from one another, on any account or pretence whatsoever.

The gaoler shall not he concerned or interested, directly or indirectly, in any profits or advantages to be derived from providing meat, drink, cloaths, or other things, for any of the prisoners.

The gaoler shall provide, and keep in exact order, (at the expence of the county) feales, weights, and-liquor measures, legally stamped, for the free use of all the prisoners.

The gaoler shall provide coals, soap, vinegar, blankets, straw, mops, sand, brufties, befoms, pails, washing bowls, towels, wifkets, and coal boxes, for the necessary use of the prisoners, so that their persons and all parts of the prison may be preserved (as much as is possible) in a state of cleanliness and health; and he shall deliver in an account of the fame, and of the expencefi incurred, at each court of quarter sessions; who are hereby empowered to examine and allow the fame, and to order the county treasurer to pay the amount to the gaoler.

Every person committed for felony, and every convict on being brought to the gaol, shall have all his own cloaths taken off, and be cleaned and walked, and be cloathed in the prison uniform; his own cloaths to be cleaned and ftoved in an heated oven, ticketed and laid up, for the prisoner to put on again on his or her trial or discharge.

No wives or children of any prisoner to be permitted to deep in gaol, nor lodgers of any kind.

No pigs, fowls, or other animals mud be kept within the walls of the prison, except the keeper’i dogs, for his security.

The gaoler shall ring the bell at the hour of locking up, which, during the months of November, December, January and February, shall be four o’clock, when the convids, and those committed on charges of felony, shall be locked up in their day-rooms, in which shall be fires: and that during these months, the convids shall be locked in their separate cells, or night-rooms, at seven o’clock, and the prisoners committed on charges of felony at eight o’clock. The gaoler shall also ring his bell on opening the wards and cells, which in the four winter months shall be at eight o’clock in the morning, and at sun-rising from the first of March to the first of October; or not later than fix o’clock. The debtors to be locked up at nine o’clock during the whole year.

The gaoler shall take especial care, that every day-room, night room, and cell be fivept clean by one or more prisoners in rotation, every day before breakfast, and walked every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.

Every felon and bridewell prisoner shall have a daily allowance of one pound and a half of good and wholesome wheaten bread, one day old, and fairly weighed out by the prison feales, and also one pennyworth of cheese, butter, peas, potatoes, turnips, &c. according to the' season; and the weekly allowance from the county to the poor debtors shall be given to them in bread, and not in money.

D d 2 These

LANCASHIRE.

Northern Circuit.

These allowances of provisions to be given out every morning to the prisoners, as soon as the rooms shall be made clean; but to be entirely withheld from all such as shall not have their hands and faces clean washed, and their persons clean and neat.

XIV. As an encouragement to industry, cleanliness, and good order, and a due attendance on religious worship,

an extra allowance shall be made on every Sunday, of half a pound of coarse beef, and one quart of broth, (prepared with onions and turnips, &c. in which it has been boiled) to every prisoner who shall have behaved well during the preceding week: but all allowances and indulgencies to be kept back from such prisoners who shall not duly attend divine service, according to the rules of the prison.

XV. No person whatsoever shall be permitted to bring ale or beer to the prisoners, (spirituous liquors

are by law prohibited) except betwixt the hours of twelve and one at noon, and in the afternoon betwixt three and four in winter, and six and seven in summer; and no more than three pints a day to be allowed to each prisoner.

XVI. The gaoler shall keep a register, divided into regular columns, in which he shall write the following

particulars of each prisoner committed to his charge, viz., name and place of abode; age; stature; complexion; colour of hair—by whom committed; for what offence; when, and how discharged; remarks on general behaviour, &c. to be returned at each assize and quarter session.

XVII. The flier iff of this county and his deputy, the justices at the quarter sessions, the grand jury at the

assizes, and the visiting and other magistrates, are requested to inspect this gaol as frequently as possible, and to enquire how the above regulations are observed by the gaoler and his servants, and also by all the prisoners.

XVIII. The gaoler shall every day visit every part of the prison, except prevented by sickness or necessary absence, and also attend at divine service whenever the chaplain shall officiate.

XIX. The criminals, in rotation, shall every day pump up a full supply of the water for the use of the prison3

as the gaoler shall appoint.

XX. The chaplain shall read prayers and preach a sermon every Sunday morning, and read prayers in the

afternoon; and also read prayers every Wednesday and Friday, at eleven o’clock; and that the chaplain be empowered to purchase, at the expence of the county, Bibles and Common-prayer books., for the religious instruction of the poor prisoners, at his discretion.

XXI. The surgeon shall personally visit the felons, convicts, and poor debtors, whenever required; and once

a week, or oftener, at other times.

XXII. These rules, orders, and regulations, together with a table of donations and legacies, and the three

prohibitory clauses of the 24th Geo. II. chap. 40. shall be hung up, painted on a board or boards, in the most conspicuous part of the prison, and a sufficient number of them shall be printed for the use of the prisoners; and they shall be distinftly read over by the chaplain, on the first Sunday in every month after divine service.

Lcficashire 10 wit. We whose names are hereunto subscribed, his majesty’s justices of the peace, assembled in open sessions, January, 1786, approve of the above rules and orders, to be observed within the county

gaol at Lancaster.

‘7*. B. Bay ley,

R. Andrews, John Chadwick,

S’. Clowes, jun. James Bradshaw, Ashton Lever,

M. Bentley,

Jfrm. Cunltjfe Shazue, R. Shuttleworth,

J. Barton,

Robert Moss,

\Thomas Baldwin,

Wm. Fleetwood, Thomas Lyon,

R. Rowbottom.

The be fore-written rules and regulations are confirmed and allowed by me, at the assize and general gaol delivery of our Lord the King, held in and for the county of Lancaster, the twenty-ninth day of March, one fhoufa&d seven hundred and eighty-six. W I L L E S

Observations

Northern Circuit.

LANCASHIRE.

20 5

Obfiervations on theje Rules.

I. Instead of/even days, the gaoler’s power to punish should, in my opinion, be limited to three days.

VIII. I was sorry to find that the magistrates had made no provision for the execution of this order.

X. By this good rule the keeper should have been limited as to the number of his dogs; for none should be permitted to have more than one or two.

XV. This seems too great an allowance, especially to convicts.

XVII. I hope the magtfirates will be very attentive to this good regulation.

XXI. Every regulation should be explicit. I have heard surgeons complain that they did not know who were included among those denominated poor debtors. In prisons where there are free wards, I should call those poor debtors who do not pay for a room or bed.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

PRESTON. Three of the rooms in this prison are made into a chapel. The court Preston

not being secure, the prisoners are never out. No bedding but a little straw. Employ- CouNTY

. Bridewell

ment, winding linen yarn and cotton, and spinning wonted. Prisoners have no

allowance but their earnings :* here exceptions should be made, for some have suffered

through sickness and want. About a year ago several were sick, but being properly

attended, and relieved by charitable donations, and the glass being removed from all the

windows of their cells, none died.—Here was a debtor from the court of requests,

debt 7 s. 8 d. colls: 6: to.

A new prison is nearly built on Mr. Blackburn’s plan, in a fine situation, on a much

larger scale, which will do honour to the county.

1787, Dec. 28, Debtor 1. Criminals 37.

To this Prison there were committed

Prisoners. Tor Felony. Bafiardy, Misdemeanors. Vagrants. Deserters. Debtors.

In 1782, 123 18 18 6l 5 X5 6

1783* D3 43 26 86 6 7 5

1784, x59 41 21 7X x4 11 1

*785* !73 47 25 71 4 16 2

1786, 183 26 27 110 x5 4 1

,787* x79 29 23 110 7 7 3

* By a careful inspection of the countenances of criminals in this and some other prisons, I am fully persuaded that the abolition of the tap is greatly conducive to their health. Their little money is now more generally spent in wholesome food, and they do not fell their bread allowance to buy liquors. In the northern counties of England milk is only a halfpenny a quart, and oatmeal, which is much used by prisoners, is about 1 Sd. a pound. Ten ounces boiled in water, with a little salt and butter, make a good mels, which is here called water pottage; or if boiled with a little sugar and currants is called gruel. — Groats and water well boiled, and parboiled currants, will keep two or three days, and, when warmed and sweetened, I think will make a good medicine for the sick in prisons; and good vegetable soup is better than meat soup. If I might advise as to drink, tea is a wholesome and good liquor; and not only prisoners, but, as I have often found, sailors when sick, are very fend of it.

i

MANCHESTER.

206

LANCASHIRE.

Northern Circuit.

Man- MANCHESTER. No alteration. The women’s fide very clean. Employment, Hester winding, lpinning and picking cotton. The prisoners have their earnings, as there is no allowance except two-pence a day to the ftck.

By the spirited exertions of Mr. Bayley, and other magistrates, a new prison is building on a large scale, from Mr. Blackburn’s plan, in which there will be single cells, and separate apartments for faulty apprentices &c. This prison will reflect much credit on the good sense and liberality of the hundred of Salford, in this county, which alone defrays all the costs of the building. 1787, Dec. 27, Prisoners 53.

Lan- LANCASTER Town Gaol. No alteration. 1787, Dec. 31, No Prisoners.

CASTER

Gaol.

LIVERPOOL BOROUGH GAOL.

Liverpool No alteration in the old gaol. Allowance, to debtors, 3^. felons, id. and convicts, 4d.

Ga01" a day. Gaoler’s salary augmented to £ 120 in lieu of the tap. The Tick are supplied with medicines from the infirmary.

The corporation have Ipared no expense for the new gaol which Mr. Blackburn is employed in building: there will be a proper separation of the different classes and sexes; and with a view to security, health, reformation and convenience, I apprehend, it will be one of the fii fl borough gaols in the kingdom.

1787, Dec. 22, Debtors 18. Felons &c. 22.

Bridewell LIVERPOOL Bridewell. No alteration. The keeper’s apartments having no view into either of the courts, may be one reason that both sexes were locked up. All the men were in heavy irons, and seven out of eight women were chained to the floors, and in bed at noon on Sunday, having had no fire for several days.* The next day, two being thus chained, at my desire, they were released and set to picking oakum, f

* All the bedding was on the floors; for the bedileads were laid in the upper rooms, because some of the prisoners had made a fort of ladder with them to get through the floor above, in order to facilitate an escape. But bedileads and bedding are necessary for the health of prisoners; and elcapes would be prevented by confinement in separate cells. In some of the cells solid Hone or brick might be worked into the walls, about eighteen inches from the floor, and cased with oak planks raised at the head, on which the bedding might be laid, as I have seen in some foreign prisons.

4 In Chester city gaol, Liverpool bridewell, and other prisons; I told the keepers that Heady, lenient and persuasive methods with prisoners, are the bell means to prevent them from breaking out; for their minds being uneasy, and their bodies harraffed, they are often driven to desperate attempts, which sometimes will be fuc-cefsful: and I mentioned the good effects of such measures at Oxford castle. Some of the keepers said, “ they noiv find, they can do more with their prisoners by lenient measures, than with a rough hand.”

Allowance,

Chester Circuit.

CHESHIRE.

207

Allowance, only a twopenny loaf (weight 17 oz.) and no provisions are permitted to be brought in; nor have the prisoners any part of their earnings.*

1787, Dec. 23, Prisoners 15-f

WARRINGTON Town Gaol and Bridewell. Two arched cells in the work-house yard, about seven feet and a half square, with barrack beds for the prisoners’ straw: the sewers in the inside. Allowance, the fame as to the poor in the work-house: the countenances of these indicate that they have sustained no loss in the death of the late keeper, 1788, Nov. 27, No Prisoners.

CHESTER CIRCUIT.

COUNTY GAOL, CHESTER CASTLE.

Here are made, three good cells, eleven feet fix inches by fix feet two, and twelve feet high; and a large aperture in the under-ground passage. By an opposite aperture, the horrid stalls adjoining would be more freshened. The free ward for debtors is in the felons’ yard. No infirmary. Allowance, 6 lb. of good bread, but served only twice a week, and two pennyworth of potatoes. No allowance for coals. The convicts have not the half crown a week. I found here at both my visits, a prisoner, who had been reprieved, employed in the instruction of nine young prisoners, whom he had taught to read. Gaoler’s salary £160 in lieu of the tap.

1787, Dec. 21, Debtors 21. Felons &c. 28.

1788, March 2, - - 19. - - - 30. Convicts 7.

* Criminals of a certain description are entitled, by two acts of parliament, in his present Majesty’s reign, to one half of the neat profits which they shall have earned, at the time of their discharge, and not before. . These earnings I could wiih to be given them at the end of every week, on the gross profits; which would take oil' all suspicion from their minds, as to the certainty of receiving them; and consequently, would afford greater encouragement to diligence. I would have them limited however by the magistrates (as is the case in many foreign houses of correction) with respect to the articles they should be allowed to purchase with their earnings, an account of which should be hung up in the prisons; such as milk, tea, coffee, cocoa, bread, butter, vegetables, meat Sec.

f In thepmr-house, which is finely situated near the bridewell, there were near a thousand inhabitants. In taking a cursory view, I could not but observe, the confusion and irregularity at dinner-time; the impropriety of having such numbers of the great boys and girls together, and at the top of the house; and the want of attention to a proper reparation of the sexes in the sick-rooms.

COUNTY

Liver-

pool.

War-

rington

Gaol.

Chester

Castle.

CHESHIRE.

Chester Circuit.

20 j

Middle-

W1CH

County

Bridewell

Chester.

City

Gaol.

City

Bridewell

Infirmary.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

M1DDLEWICH. There arc further improvements in this prison. The men’s court enlarged, and a current of water: separation of the sexes: fix cells added for solitary confinement (eight feet two inches by five feet) with courts (fifteen feet by seven): the prisoners in them should not be in irons. A chapel. Allowance to each prisoner 6lb. of bread a week, and nearly all their earnings. Keeper’s salary .£73.

1788, Aug. 1, Prisoners 24.

CHESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration. Prison not secure. The convicts, and prisoner for trial, were severely ironed, by the neck, hands, waist, feet, and chained to the floor; and at night to their beds in the horrid dungeon. Here was the first iron glove I have seen in England, which, though not yet used, shews the severity of the gaoler’s disposition. Allowance, a pennyworth of bread to felons, and a pound to debtors; inferior in quality to that fold in the city. Debtors and felons are permitted to beg some hours in the day. That prisoners are not supplied with necessary food is a disgrace to such an opulent city. No proper separation of men and women either here, or in the county gaol. Gaoler’s salary £50 in lieu of the tap.

1787, Dec. 21, Debtors 6. Criminal 1. Convicts - 6.

1788, March 2, - - S. Felons &c. 7. Women Convicts 2.

CHESTER City Bridewell. A small alteration made by dividing a room or two. No employment: no allowance. Court not secure. Keeper has a spacious garden: his salary only £4. He fells beer.

1787, Dec. 21, Prisoners 3. 1788, March a, Prisoners 2.

Chester General Infirmary.

The wards are spacious and clean, and the beds not crowded. The two fever wards were not in the lealt offensive: they were fitted up on the upper floor, on account of a contagious fever in Chester in 1784, and very -properly were not cieled, but plastered to the tiles. * By the attention of the ingenious Dr. Haygarth, and his colleague, most of the patients then recovered. The good rules for these wards I here copy.

* Such upper rooms in moil hospitals and work-houses, having joists laid across, and being cieled at the square, are generally low and bad apartments: so also the upper rooms in many houses are by this pra£l\ce made close, unhealthy places; which, had they been cieled pretty near the ridge and had the tides coved, would have been more pleating to the eye, and fresher to the inhabitants.

Rules

Chester Circuit.

CHESHIRE.

309

Rules for the Fever Wards; to prevent the Infection of other Patients in the Chester Infirmary.

X. Fresh water and coals are to be brought up to the fever wards every morning; and other necessaries on Chester

ringing a bell.

II. No fever patients, nor their nurses, are suffered to go into other parts of the house. No other patient is

allowed to visit the fever wards; nor any stranger, unless accompanied by the apothecary or his assistant.

III. Every patient, on admission, is to change his infectious for clean linen; the face and hands are to be

washed clean with warm water, and the lower extremities fomented.

IV. All putrid discharges from the patients are to be taken out of the ward as soon as possible.

V. The floors of the wards are to be washed very clean twice a week, and near the beds every day.

VI. All foul linen is to be immediately thrown into cold water; and carefully washed twice out of clean

water, in the adjoining room.

VII. Blankets, and other bed and body clothes are to be exposed to the open fresh air for some hours, before

they are used by another patient.

VIII. All the bed clothes of the fever wards are to be marked Fever Ward, and all the knives, forks, pots,

cups and other utensils are to be of a peculiar colour, left they be inadvertently taken among other patients.

IX. All the windows of the fever wards are to be kept constantly open in the day, except the weather be very

cold or wet; and some of them should not be (hut in the night, if the patients be numerous, and the weather moderate.

X. No relation or other acquaintance can be suffered to take away any linen unwalhed, nor other clothes till

they have been long exposed to the fresh air.

MACCLESFIELD Prison for the Liberty. The property of Lord Cholmondeley. Maccles-It consists of four rooms at the back of the keeper’s public house: quite out of repair: pFIELD

the staircase so ruinous that the prisoners afeend by a rope. 1788, Aug. 1, Debtors 6.

1788, Aug. i. No Prisoners.

NANTWICH Town Gaol. No alteration. The two damp dungeons (till used. Nantwick

* The Work-house at Nantwich was erected in 1779, on the common, and about eleven acres and a half of land enclosed, for which 2;. 6d. a year is paid to the lord of the manor. The house is visited weekly by the

by confinement in the dungeon. Aug. ift, 1788, there were eleven men, sixteen women, ten boys, seven girls.

I own I cannot approve of thus encouraging the poor, and initiating the young in an idle custom, the

NANTWICH Prison for Debtors. No alteration.

Namtwich

Prison.

No allowance. 1788, Aug. 1, Prisoners 2.*

Town

Gaol.

COUNTY

gentlemen of the town, in rotation. It was clean, and great attention seems to be paid to the inhabitants. The rooms are too low, and the upper parts of the windows too far from the cielings. Five ftiillings a month is allowed for tobacco and snuff, yet the use of tea, though purchased with their own money, is ordered to be punished

1 have found a regular weekly allowance also for tobacco and snuff in several other work-houses r but

E e

filthy

210

FLINTSHIRE.

Chester Circuit.

Flint

County

Gaol.

COUNTY GAOL at FLINT.

A new gaol, built on a fine lpot in the caltie yard, similar to that at Ruthin. It is not kept clean, nor has it been white-washed since it was built; a fault too common in new gaols. The pump in the felons’ court, as in many other gaols, out of order. Neither the clauses again!! spirituous liquors, nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners, hung up. Debtors have the county allowance. The colts being more than the debts, I copy the back of two of the warrants: debt 13J. 3d. colts 13s. Gd.— Debt^i: 19:0, colts £1: 4: c. Gaoler’s salary now £45; and he has no chamber rent of the debtors.

1788, March 3, Debtors 4. Petty Offender 1. Coavidts 3.

filthy effects of which are more loathsome than can be well conceived, and very opposite to that spirit of clean? liness one would earnestly wish to inculcate. This indulgence is also creeping into gaols; and, if I be not mifmformed, the gaoler of this county makes a constant charge on that account, which is allowed. I suppose this practice in prisons and other crowded places has been favoured with a view of counteracting infection by means of the fmokej* but where proper means are used for admission of fresh air, no fumigation is necessary; and where It is thought advantageous, much more eiFectual methods of applying the fume, as well as fumes of a more salutary nature, may easily be adopted. On the other hand, tea is rigorously prohibited in these houses, though, in my opinion, it is one of the most Innocent luxuries, and when used with milk and sugar, is a wholesome as well as an agreeable beverage. And what can be a more proper encouragement to those who distinguish themselves by their cleanliness and industry, than rewarding them with an indulgence which renews one of the comforts, perhaps, of more prosperous days; and which is neither hurtful to themselves, nor offensive to others. — 1 could wish that all old and infirm people, in all parish work-houses, had one third of their earnings, as is the case at Hamburg See. which I am persuaded would even be for the advantage of such parishes.

Before I conclude this subject of work-houses, I mull add, that I by no means approve of the idea of parishes giving no relief to persons out of their work-houses; for, even the belt establishments of this kind have something in them repugnant to the feelings of an Englishmen. An ingenious writer has proposed parish nxork-shops (similar to what I have mentioned at Vienna): and was not Mr. Henry Fielding’s proposal of the fame nature r “ that poor people might relieve themselves; and by repairing to them in the day-time, and receiving

what they earned, they would be enabled to return to the comforts of their ran fire fide, and be it liberty “ to engage in any other occupation that might offer.” “ For the original institution of the poor laws is, in * judge Blackstone's words, to relieve the impotent poor, and them only; and to find employment for such “ as are able to work: a plan more humane and beneficial than even feeding and clothing of millions, by (< affording them the means (with proper industry) to feed and clothe themselves.”

I f all parishes were to procure the means of labour, both for men and women, I am persuaded it would keep many out of those places of confinement, parish work-houses: and as for such persons as have nothing but their labour by which to support themselves, they should be compelled to work, in well regulated houses of correction, unless in cases of sickness, age and incapacity.

* Dr. Hodges, who was in great practice in London, during the plague In 1665, and wrote an Hijlorical Account of it, fay3, Whether we regard the narcotick quality of this American henbane; or the poisonous oil which exhales from it in smoking; or that prodigious discharge of spittle which it occasions, and which nature wants for many other important occasions; £t or, lastly, the exercise it gives to the lungs in drawing it; besides the aptitude of the pestilential poison to be taken down along “ with it, and the irksomeness of itsfeent; I must confess myself at uncertainties about it: though, as to myself, I am its <( profefied enemy,” And to the advocates for such a habit, who use the argument of its being antipeJlHential, I would only ask; »n what country is smoking more used than in Turkey?

At

Chester. Cir.cuit.

DENBIGHSHIRE.

HI

At the Front of this Prison, on a black and white Marble, is this Inftcription.

In the

Twenty-fifth year of h'u Majesty Geo. III.

In the Sheriffalty of Sir Thomas Hanmer. Bart, this Prison was erebled instead of the antient loathsome place of confinement.

In pity

to the misery of even the most guilty,

To alleviate the fifferings of lesser offenders or of the innocent themselves, JVhom the chances of human life may bring within these walls.

Done at the expence of the county aided by the subscriptions of several of the Gentry, who,

in the midst of most distressful days.

Voluntarily took on themselves part of the burden in cotnpaffwn to such of their countrymen on whom

Fortune had been lefts bounteous of her favours.

Joseph Turner Architect.

In the inside, on a white marble, is a list of the names of the subscribers, with the sums they gave; beginning with Sir Roger Moftyn Bart. £100.

DENBIGHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at RUTHIN.

No alteration, but petty offenders are sent to the adjoining prison. No proper separation of the sexes. Gaoler has no view from a window into his prison. The debtors pay no chamber rent, and have the county allowance of two shillings a week, yet do not keep their rooms clean. One of the articles in the rules dated 1785, is, That all “ prisoners committed for felony shall have irons put on their legs at the discretion of “ the keeper, and the fame not to be altered without an order of a justice of the peace:’’ even women are not excepted. Gaoler’s salary now £70.

1788, March 3, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 2. Convicts 7.

Flint INSC RIP Tiori ,

Ruthin^ County Gaol.

COUNTY

212

MONTGOMERYSHIRE.

Chester Circuit.

Ruthin Cou NTY Briuf.well

Mont-

gomery

County

Gaol.

Cou N T’Y Bride vv ell

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

RUTHIN. The county bridewell is a new building, situated near the river, and adjoining to the county gaol. Over the door is inscribed, “ County work-house, for industry or correction.” This prison was clean. Allowance is. a week, the fame as in the Gaol. No water in the court. Keeper’s salary £20. No fees.

1788, March 3, Prisoners 2.

MONTGOMERYSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at MONTGOMERY.

Two rooms and a chapel are built over the brew-house; but there is only one court j and no proper reparation of men and women prisoners. Allowance, three pennyworth of brown bread from the gaoler: 2lb. 2loz. the weight of the assize which the magistrates had sent to the gaol. — Several debtors, confined on county court warrants, were released about two months ago by a lady. One, whole debt was 13J. the costs 1 gs. 5d.

Another, debt 30^. costs 17J. 5d. Another, debt £2:1:0. costs £1: 19: 10.

Another, debt lor. Gd. costs £1:12: 3. besides the sheriff’s fee for each, is. and the gaoler’s fee 3.1. Gd. Gaoler’s salary £12:12:0 from the sheriff, and £35 from the county, in lieu of the tap. — I here give a pertinent observation of Mr. Powell, the worthy chaplain of this gaol. “ Among the many good effects of the abolition of the tap in gaols, “ one ltruck me mod forcibly, which is this: before that salutary mealure took place, on “ an execution day, while I was labouring to prepare the unhappy criminals for that “ awful change they were loon to undergo, my ears were shocked with the most horrid “ oaths, blasphemics, noise and confusion, occasioned by numbers of people who came “ out ofeuriolity to the gaol that day, many of whom were in a state of intoxication.— «< Since that regulation, all is decency and order. The unfortunate convicts and mylelf do not experience the least disturbance at that solemn time, when they are about to, “ launch into eternity.”

1788, Feb. 8, Debtors 9. Felons &c. 6. Convicts 6.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

MONTGOMERY. No alteration. 1788, Feb. 8, No Prisoners.*

* The poor-boufi at Montgomery is farmid by a person who lives at a distance, and1 puts in a deputy-. The house and inhabitants were very dirty, and the beds extremely bad.

NORTH

North Wales Circuit.

ANGLESEY.

ii 3

NORTH WALES CIRCUIT.

COUNTY GAOL at BEAUMARIS.

No alteration. Prison not clean. Allowance, to debtors none,- to felons n. Gd. a week in bread, and Gd. in butter. The twelvepenny county loaf was half a pound less in weight, and worse in quality than a tenpenny loaf which the gaoler had bought of another baker. The gaoler has still the tap, and his salary of £$ as keeper of the bridewell.

1788, March 5, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 4.

BEAUMARIS Town Gaol. Two new rooms on the ground floor, adjoining to the assembly room. Keeper’s salary £1. 1788, March 5, No Prisoners.

CARNARVONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at CARNARVON.

In my former publication I observed the ruinous condition of this gaol and bridewell. No alteration. Not a casement to open in any window. Debtors have no allowance: one of them was out to beg. There is adjoining a neat county hall, and a new and spacious grand jury room. Gaoler’s salary of £5 is augmented to £10 in lieu of the tap. The tennis ground is not now frequented. 1788, March 4, Debtors 3. Felons&c. none.

CARMARTHEN CIRCUIT.

PEMBROKESHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HAVERFORDWEST.

In 1782, I had the pleasure to find a new gaol built on the castle hill, instead (as the Flint gentlemen have laid of their old gaol) “of the ancient, loathsome place of confinement.” The prison clean and quiet: yet, I am sorry to add, no divine service had been performed in the chapel for some time past. I mull: here make a general remark, that neither the act for preserving the health of prisoners, nor the three clauses again!! the admission of spirituous liquors into gaols, are hung up in any of the prisons of this country. 1788, May 20, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 4.

HAVERFORDWEST Town and County Gaol. This prison was very dole, dirty and oft'enfive. The room over it, used as a bridewell, clean.

1788, May 20, No Prisoners-

Beaumaris

County

Gaol.

Town

Gaol.

Carnar-

von

County

Gaol.

Haver-

fordwest

Gaol.

Town

Gaol.

COUNTY

CARMARTHENSHIRE.

Carmarthen Circuit.

-i

C.UMAR-

THf N

Castle.

COU NTY Gaol.

Prestei cn County Gaol.

Brecon

County

Gaol.

COUNTY GAOL at CARMARTHEN CASTLE.

No alteration, except that pipes have been laid in; but they are dill too scantily iupplied with water. The gaoler keeps a public houie in the town, and resides there. The county proposes to build a new gaol, and there is plenty of water in some fine situations, near the town. 1788, May 21, Debtors 5. Felons &c. 7. Deserters 2.

CARMARTHEN County Borough Gaol, is dill over a gateway, close, and confined by buildings. One prisoner was sick. 1788, May 2r, Fel. &c. 2. Desert. 2.*

SOUTH WALES CIRCUIT.

RADNORSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at PRESTEIGN.

No alteration in this bad prison. Allowance to debtors and felons a threepenny loaf every other day, weight 2lb. 30Z. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. The gaol fever was, not long since, in the prison. No infirmary: no surgeon; no chaplain. There was lately a debtor from the county court confined here near a year; his debt .£1:18:9: costs £1:5:6. Another, whose debt was 5 s. 6d.: cods 6 s. 8 d. Another; debt ior. cods 8r. 4d. and the gaoler fays his fees are 13J. 4d. but there is no table. Gaoler’s salary now only £5: 5: o from the sheriff. He has £a: 2: o as keeper of the bridewell. No salary in lieu of the tap.-j- 1788, Feb. 2, Debt. 5. Fel. &c. 2.

BRECONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at BRECON.

No alteration. The gaol nightly built. The pumps out of order. A current of

water might be easily brought through the gaol from the adjoining river. Allowance to

felons and poor debtors 14^. a week in household bread, delivered twice a week in sixpenny and eightpenny loaves. The eightpenny loaf weighed only 5lb. A sixpenny loaf of the fame fort of bread, in the town, weighed 4 lb. 9 oz. J Convids have not

* At the work-house (or poor-house) in this town, there is no fort of employment.

f At the Michaelmas quarter session 1787, the chairman said, that the gaoler’s salary of £13 in lieu of the tap ought to be paid by the high sheriff, which the magistrates on the bench confirmed—and in consequence, the payment of his salary was immediately Hopped. In the act of 24th of Geo. III. Cap. 54. it is expressed that the justices of the peace are “ to order and direct the salaries to be paid out of the county rate by the treasurer of such county.”

I I weigh the bread at prisons by my Heel-yard, and inquire if it be thefiandard weight: but if there be no assize in the town, I examine the bread of other bakers, to fee if there be any abuse with respect to weight or quality.

the

South Wales Circuit.

the half crown a week. Chaplain now, Rev. Mr. Laurence; his salary reduced to £ to: to: o. — A poor Ihoe-maker from the county court was released, who had a wife and four children; debt I is. costs 17 s. id. Gaoler’s fees 7 s. Gaoler’s salary ,£31: 10: o in lieu of the tap, and £10 as keeper of the bridewell.

1788, Feb. 1, Debtors 10. Felons &c. 7. Convicts 4.

BRECON Town Gaol. No alteration. No court: no water. 1788, Feb. 1, No Pris

GLAMORGANSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at CARDIFF.

This prison is a flight building, on a bad plan. The debtors’ windows look towards the street. No water in the felons’ court. No table of fees or regulations. Garnish still continued is. 6d. The gaoler lives at a distance. It is impossible that a gaol should be well regulated, if the keeper do not reside in it, and be not capable of keeping a constant eye over his prisoners. 1788, May 23, Debtors 23. Felons &c. 7.

CARDIFF Town Gaol. No alteration. 1788, May 23, No Prisoners.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL.

COWBRIDGE. No alteration. The court not being secure, the men are never out but when they go to the pump, which has a supply of fine water. No employment, which is a general remark for the bridewells in this country. 1788, May 22, Prisoners 6.

SWANSEY Town Gaol. The debtors’ room 13 very close, and has only one window, which is partly stopt by a Ihed built against the wall. The room for felons (called the black hole) has an aperture in the door, but no window: yet at the Michaelmas quarter sessions, prisoners of loth sexes are here confined for some days. In 1787 there were two men and two women confined in it from Monday till Friday. Similar to this is the prison at Neath where one of the quarter sessions is held.*

1788, May 22, Debtor 1.

In my various journeys in England and Wales, I have seen many houses defaced on account of the odium tax on windows; and I cannot help repeating my concern for its pernicious effects. I am persuaded it has a very bad influence on the health of the lower classes of people; and this may be one reason of their not having now such healthy, ruddy complexions as they had formerly. The farmers’ servants having been crowded into unventilated rooms or holes, and our labouring poor having been habituated to close habitations, they dislike, when they come into work-houses or hospitals, the admission of fresh air.

Town

Gaol.

Cower 1D G E

SwaNSRY

Gaol.

> 1

f

* Before I quit this subject, I would just mention, that in all my visits to the gaols and priforrs, in this and other kingdoms, I never received any insults either from keepers or prisoners; nor have I loft any thing in any of them, except, that in one of our prisons I once loft a large new handkerchief out of my pocket, which I did not miss for some time, but on a subsequent visit, about ten months after, it was immediately pre-&nted to me by a prisoner; as, he said, lie believed I had dropped it when I was there last.

THE..

2l6

H U L K S.

The HULKS on the THAMES.

Thames At both niy visits, the hulks were clean, the bread good, the prisoners healthy, and

Hulks. many were at work. The hojpitalship was cleaner and quieter than moll of our county

hospitals. Several convicts were lately come from the county gaols, and the captain justly observed, how different the health and complexion of such prisoners are now, from what they were when 1 f.rft visited the hulks.—But I must repeat my complaint, that such an allemblage is entirely destructive to the morals of young convicts: the profaneness of the prisoners is not properly checked; and some of the guards set them a bad example.

March 26th, 1787, the number of convicts was 549, of whom the JuJlitia had 246, the Cenjor 229, and the Ceres, 74. Of these thirty-six were in the hospital ship, eleven from the JuJlitia, twelve from the Cenjor, and thirteen from the Ceres.

July 16th, 178S, the number was 741. The JuJlitia had two hundred and sixty-five, the Cenjor two hundred and forty-eight, and the Stanijlaus two hundred and twenty-eight.

From the JuJlitia ninety, and from the Stanijlaus one hundred and thirty-two, were at work on the shore, and in the ballast lighters.

In die hospital ship were 32; from the JuJlitia twelve, from the Cenjor twelve, and from the Stanijlaus eight.

The HULK at PLYMOUTH.

Plymouth November 10th, 17S7, the convicts at Plymouth dock were on board the hulk of

Hulk. t|le Chatham, a seventy gun ship, and were healthy and well; but the Dunkirk, which is

more commodious, was repairing for them. Their bread, beef and beer were good; but the bread allowance of 4lb. a day to fix men, is not sufficient. There were among them many fine young fellows, who all lived in total idleness, though some useful employment might here easily be found. There were ninety-two men and one woman: nine more convicts were coming on board from the gaol at Glamorgan.

June 28th, 1788, there were three hundred and sixty six convicts in the Dunkirk, which was fitted up with several separate rooms. In one of the rooms, fifty-seven feet by eighteen, and fix feet high, there were sixty-eight. Such a room, at night, when the

hatches arc down, must be very offensive. At one end, there is a room called the

infirmary, and a recovery ward; in the former were seven convicts, and in the latter thirteen. The meat was lweet, but the bread not good, and the beer thick.

The prisoners were all in total idleness, except six or seven who were making a boat for the captain. One ingenious man had made a small ink-stand (which I have by me) out of a bone of his meat; but his knife was taken from him. I saw some with Bibles in their hands; but here is no chaplain, nor any religious service. Here also some of the keepers, by their profaneness, set a bad example to the prisoners.

Three

HULKS.

217

Three miserable objedbs, for attempting to break out, were let down into a dreadful, dark and deep hole at the bottom of the lliip, where they lay, almost naked, upon a little straw; but, having been thus confined for some weeks, upon their earnest entreaties, I obtained their release.

The HULK at GOSPORT.

At Gosport, July 7th, 1788, there were two hundred and seventy-three convicts in the bulk of an old Indiaman, called the Lion, which was moored here May ift, 1788. The lliip was clean, and the prisoners had a healthy and placid look; but they lay two on a bed, with one blanket. Here were several to be transported for life, and some whole sentences were for a short term: among them were boys of only ten years of age. About one hundred and fifty of them were on shore, moving mould, who had irons on both legs, and a chain between them. Five carpenters were fitting up rooms for them to dine in, on Ihore; which is much better than returning at noon to the hulk, as the convicts do on the Thames.

The HULKS near PORTSMOUTH.

At Langfton harbour, near Portsmouth, are three hulks. In La Fortunes (formerly a French thirty-six gun frigate) there were, July 8th, 1788, three hundred and thirty-eight convicts. In the Ceres, which was the receiving lliip at Woolwich, and was brought round here July ill, 1788, were two hundred and nineteen convicts. The other is an old hulk, now fitting up for an hospital ship. Two hundred and thirty of the convicts of the Fortunes, and one hundred and four of the Ceres, were at work on Cumberland Fort; nineteen of them as masons, fix as carpenters, and the rest as labourers. Most of these were unloading the ships, and carrying Hones to different parts of the new works. They dine on Ihore at twelve o’clock. Their bread and beer were good, but they complained sadly of the meat, and indeed not without cause; for the beef was very lean, full of bones, and not half the allowance, viz. one pound to each man before it is dressed. The diet table which I had formerly seen in the cabin of the JuJiitia I here copy.

A Table of Diet expended by the Convicts on board the JuJUtia Hulk daily.

Each ?nefs is for Jix men, with seven pounds of bread every day.

Breakfast. Every day ) a pint of barley or rice, made into three quarts of soup.

Dinner. Sunday, Six pounds of salt pork or seven pounds of beef, with five quarts of beer.

- - - Monday, Wednesday, Friday, six pounds of bullock’s head.

- - - Tttefday, Thursday, Saturday, two pounds of cheese, and five quarts of beer.

Supper. Sunday, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, a pint ofpeafe and barley, made into three quarts of soup.

- - - Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, a pint of oatmeal, made into burgou.

F f All

Plymouth

Hulk.

Gospo RT Hulk.

Ports-

Diet

Table.

5 ffi

£i !3

HULKS.

Ports-

mouth

Hulks.

All who are employed in the public works on shore have, each day they work, one pint of small beer, the king’s allowance. Mot of them had a ring on one leg, and the other ring fattened to their waiftband.

Both the ships were clean, particularly the Ceres. The Fortunee had few sick in that part called the hospital; but the Ceres had many more sick than the hospital part could contain, f Several had the gaol-fever, and a few, petechia;. — Six out of ten that went from Bedford were dead, and two of the others were very sickly and dispirited. J — The convicts lie two on a draw bed, with one blanket; and after one is taken ill, his companion soon sickens. Some few have hammocks, which in every view are better, and I wish they were in general use, except in the hospital flrips. The Ceres being an old receiving ship, may be one cause of its being contaminated with infection; and 1110ft of the convicts here are from the country. There is not however, in general, that attention to cleanliness in the clothes, linen, and persons of the prisoners in the hulks which is necessary to preserve their health: for though some were decently clothed in their own clothes, others were in rags; many without Ihirts. All should be clothed in a sailor’s uniform, of jacket, trowsers &c. and I could wish that the whole of Saturday were appropriated to cleanliness, viz. bathing, walhing and mending their clothes, fliaving, cleaning themselves and every part of the ships, and beating and airing their bedding. Thus endeavouring to introduce habits of cleanliness is an object of great importance; as many officers have observed, “ that the “ most cleanly men are always the mod decent and honest, and the most ttovenly and “ dirty are the most vicious and irregular.” On other days, none who are able should be excused from work. There were in the Fortunee one hundred excused from work, though the ship was healthy.

It would be better if there were a diet table painted and hung up in every hulk, for the inspection of the convicts; and if they were permitted to choose two of their number to fee that justice is done to them, as in the ninth article of the rules for the prisoners of war, which I formerly published; and proper scales, weights and measures ought to be kept for their use. There should also be a table of rules and orders, ttmilar to that for

* It is aliened by some persons, and government are made to believe it, that these convicts do more work than common day-labourers. But, from the frequent observation of them, I am convinced the contrary is the truth; and indeed, how could it be expected that men who labour involuntarily, with /canty diet, and small encouragement, should exert themselves with as much spirit as those who have the pleasing idea of a wife and children to Share in their gains

f At my visit to the Hospital of the galley saves at Naples, which is on the Jhtsre fronting the bay, on my telling the surgeon, that in some countries a part of each galley is made an hospital (alluding in my mind to our hulks); he replied, “ that mull; soon make the whole an hospital.”

j The gaoler at Reading told me, July 12th, 1788, that of the eleven convicts whom he carried on board the hulks, April ift, 1787, all were dead but three. I have observed, that convicts from the country often pine away and die without any apparent sign of illness; and that of equal numbers, from the country, and from Newgate, three or four of the former die for one of the latter.

prisoners

HULKS.

219

prisoners of war, with a strict prohibition against profaneness, which, I am sorry to say, is particularly necessary for the guards of these convicts. A gentleman of reputation fttould be appointed as commissary, to whom the prisoners, in case of cruelty or injullice, might immediately appeal 3 and who also should fee that the money allowed by government, at the end of their term, be given them. See Act 16th Geo. III. cap. 43. and Act 24th Geo. III. cap. 12. left. 6. By this act, and another of the same year cap. 56. fest. 9. it is declared, Cf That all the time during which any offender, shall have continued in gaol under sentence of transportation, or being removed under the provisions aforesaid, shall continue confined by virtue of this act, shall be taken and reckoned in discharge, or part discharge, or satisfaction of the term of his transportation.” Some of the convicts were sentenced for life, others for fourteen, seven, five, or three years: among these were boys 5 and all afTociating together without distinction. Is it not contrary to justice and humanity to fend convicts who are not sentenced for life, to a settlement so remote that there is no probability of their return; and a ft ill greater hardship to those who are sent after they have been four or five years and upwards in confinement, as some were in the last fleet to Botany Bay

I think it will be admitted that the mode of confinement and labour in the hulks is too severe for the far greater number of those who are confined in them. At the same time, there is no proportion of punishment to the several offences, and consequently, no distinction of guilt 5 which many wise legislators have long lamented as an evil which wants to be remedied.*

The Number of Convicts in the Hulks at the times they were visited in 1788.

Ports-

mouth

Hulks.

Ai Woolwich, July 16 th, in the Justitia, - - 265.

- - - - Cenfbr, - - 248.

- - - - Staniftaus, - - 228.

At Plymouth, June -S CO N in the Dunkirk, - 366.

Gosport, July 7th, - - Lion, - - 273-

Langfton Harbour, July 8th, in the Fortunee, w 00

- - - - Ceres, - 219.—Total 1937.

* The great mortality that has happened among the convicts from the time they were first put on board the JuJlitia hulk at Woolwich, in August 1776, does not, I am persuaded, proceed from their being confined on the water; (though in many other views I dislike this mode of confinement): as, from the general practice offoreigners in building their prisons, hospitals and poor-houses, near the water, it seems, that they have no apprehension of bad consequences arising from such a situation. Dr. Helerden has expressed his sentiments on this subject in the Medical Transafiiom, pages 521, 524. "In England few make any doubt of the great danger attending " wet rooms. — Is this opinion founded upon experience, or is it a prejudice, winch has been suffered to grow “ up, and get strength, merely for want of being examined ? If we inquire into the arguments in favour of this notion, we shall hardly find any other, than the random conjectures of the sick about the cause of their illness; “ or than their artfully substituting this origin of it instead of some other, which they are unwilling to own. — " The air from rivers and from the sea is probably more replenished with vapors, than inland countries cleared " of their woods; yet the moil celebrated of ancient physicians recommended the bank of a running river for “ the situation of a house, on account of its peculiar healthiness; and many invalids are sent by the modern " physicianB to the sea fide, only for the benefit of the sea air.”

THE

(' 220 )

R E M A R K S

PENITENTIARY HOUSES.

R EMARKS

ON

Peniten-

tiary

Houses.

THE Act for establishing Penitentiary Houses, drawn up by two of the wileft men this kingdom has produced, was “ a work of long and continued labour and inquiry,” and the legislature fully expressed their wife and humane sentiments in the following terms; “ that “ if many offenders convicted of crimes for which transportation has been usually inflifled, “ were ordered to solitary imprisonment, accompanied by well regulated labour, and religious 11 instruction, it might be the means, under Providence, not only of deterring others “ from the commission of the like crimes, but also of reforming the individuals, and “ inuring them to habits of industry.”* Such a great and comprehensive plan will

* As I have formerly published, in a table, the number of criminals delivered from Newgate to be transported> in the years 1773* 1774, 1775; I shall here take the liberty of copying, at the end of this work, from the appendix to the draught of a bill for erecting Penitentiary Houses, “ the lifts in the House of Commons, of * all persons, who between the first day of November 1769, and the first day of November 1776, had, “ within any jurisdiction of England and Wales, been ordered for transportation, in consequence of conditional “ pardons or otherwise: which lifts, were returned to the house pursuant to a motion for that purpose of the * 8th of November 1776.” Upon these lifts the following observation is added, of The annual average of persons sentenced to transportation during the seven years above specified, appears to have been nine “ hundred and sixty; and this number is less by near one half than would probably be found in similar lifts * for the seven years preceding: for the judges had already fecn strong objections to transportation, and had 4t discouraged the use of it, as far as was compatible with the public convenience and safety.” I perfectly concur in opinion, with a great and learned writer, whom I have already quoted, f‘ that every effect of banishment, as practised in England, is often beneficial to the criminal, and always injurious to the community.”

Principles of Penal Law, page 33.

I here copy one or two receipts of contractors which I have by me, shewing that persons who have money may buy off their servitude.

* Received the 29th of April 1774 of R-----d TV-----ff for his passage to, and for his freedom in

Maryland, notwithstanding he dares not return from thence till the limited time of his transportation is expired.

Moses Jfrael Fonfeca

*f London April 30th 1774 Aston Hall Received of Mr. R-----d L-----£ the sum of four pounds, four shillings, for the freedom and accom-

modation on their passage, on board the above ship to Baltimore, Maryland.

TV---ffe A-----n

R-----d

TV-----m

4

4 o

fobn Par herd*

necessarily

PENITENTIARY HOUSES.

221

necessarily require alterations and amendments; but I well remember the good Judge Blackstone saying to me, “ Let it get into the House, and a beginning be made.”

I will therefore take the liberty to suggest, that there are some things in the act which it may be proper to alter. The time for which some of the convicts are to be committed to the intended Penitentiary houses, viz. some one year, some two years. Such criminals seem more proper for the county houses of correction; for is it possible to think of any reformation in a convict’s behaviour, that is likely to prove lalting, in the compass of a year ? I could wish to have all such as are not to remain in a Penitentiary' house five years, at least, disposed of in some other manner.

The term Penitentiary clearly shews that parliament had chiefly in view the reformation and amendment of those to be committed to such places of confinement.

To these houses, however, I should wish that none but old, hardened offenders, and those who have, as the laws now Hand, forfeited their lives by robbery, house-breaking, and similar crimes, should be committed; or in short, those criminals who are to be confined for a long term, or for life. I wish that no persons might suffer capitally but for murder — for Jetting houses on fire—and for house-breaking, attended with alls of cruelty. Our present laws are certainly too fangumary, and are therefore ill executed; which last circumstance, by encouraging offenders to hope that they may escape punishment, even after conviction, greatly tends to increase the number of crimes. Yet many are brought to a premature end, who might have been made useful to the state. Indeed, I the more earnestly embarked in the-scheme of erecting Penitentiary houses, from seeing cart loads of our fellow creatures carried to execution, “ though the generous nature of our countrymen rarely permits them to perpetrate acts of cruelty,” when at the same time I was fully persuaded that many of those unhappy wretches, by regular, steady discipline in a Penitentiary house, would have been rendered useful members of society; and above all, from the pleasing hope, that such a plan might be the means of promoting the salvation of some individuals; of which, every instance is, according to the unerring word of truth, a more important object, than the gaining of the whole world.

The Penitentiary houses I would have built, in a great measure, by the convicts. I will suppose that a power is obtained from parliament to employ such of them as are now at work on the Thames, or some of those who are in the county gaols, under sentence of transportation, as may be thought most expedient. — In the first place, let the surrounding wall, intended for full security against escapes, be completed, and proper lodges for the gate-keepers.—Let temporary buildings, of the nature of barracks, be erected in some part of this enclosure which will be wanted the least, till the whole is finished. Let one or two hundred men, with their proper keepers, and under the directions of the builder, be employed in levelling the ground, digging out the foundation, serving the masons, sawing the timber and stone: and as I have found several convicts who were carpenters, masons, and smiths, these may be employed in their own branches of trade; since such work is as necessary and proper as any other in which they can

he

Remarks

on

Peniten-

tiary

Houses.

222

PENITENTIARY HOUSES.

Remarks

on

Peniten-

tiary

Houses.

be engaged. Let the people thus employed chiefly consist of those — whose term is nearly expired — or, who are committed for a short term; and as the ground is suitably prepared for the builders, the garden made, the wells dug, and the building finished, let those who are to be dismissed go off gradually-, as it would be very improper to fend them back to the hulks or gaols again. By this method, they may be kept mod usefully employed-, and at the same time, by regular labour, some degree of separation, and proper conduct of their overseers to them, they may perhaps be a little reformed: for, except their keepers, and the directors of the works, they will be no more intermixed with other people than where they ar enow, at Woolwich, Portsmouth, or Golport.* — I have not considered this scheme superficially, though I can bear being told, it is absurd. Many have been reclaimed and made useful members of society, in foreign houses of correction, and have thanked God for their confinement in them: these houses are called in Holland Verbeler huixen, that is, bettering houses: and, the settled object in all such houses should be, to make men better -, at leak, more useful subjects. Their earnings constitute, in my opinion, but a secondary consideration: for surely, it is impossible to place any degree of profit in competition with the prospect of meliorating the minds of our fellow creatures.

The object I am sensible is great, but it is useful. If I should not be able to accomplish this good work, I would Hill endeavour to bring materials, and lay the foundation; that others, of more skill, may afterwards undertake the benevolent task, and carry to perfection a plan, worthy of the great Sir William Blackstone, with whom I had the honour of much converl'ation on this subject; a man, of such vast extent of capacity, as to have comprehended, in one enlarged view, the whole fabric of our laws; who was able to reduce them to a regular system; and, who further possessed, what is rarely united to great abilities, constancy to execute his immortal work.

This great and good man Dr. Fothcrgill saw just before he died, to whom he then turned, and asked “ what progress we had made in the Penitentiary houses.” The doctor answered, that we had paid all possible attention to the sentiments of others respecting a situation, that we mull soon be obliged to request the opinion of our judges concerning it, and till this was obtained, we could not proceed much farther. — Be firm in your own, was all that he was able to say, as he soon after departed to a better life.

* From greater experience, and longer observation, I am more confirmed in a remark that I formerly made on the notion, that convitis are ungovernable, which is certainly erroneous. There is a mode of managing some of the most desperate, with ease to yourself, and advantage to them. Many such are shrewd and sensible. Let them be managed with calmness, yet with ftcadinefs: shew them that you have humanity, and that you aim to make them useful members of society: and let them fee and hear the rules and orders of the prison, that they may be convinced they are not defrauded in their provisions or clothes, by contractors or gaolers. When they are sick, let them be treated with tenderness. Such conduct would prevent mutiny in prisons, and attempts to escape; which I am fully persuaded are often owing to prisoners being made desperate, by the profaneness, inhumanity and ill usage of their keepers.

This

PENITENTIARY HOUSES.

22 3

This account of the Judge’s last conversation I received, in a letter from the doctor, in January 1780; as I was then attending the prels at Warrington. I shall take the liberty to copy verbatim my immediate answer to that letter. Mr. Justice Blackstone's dying words, Be firm in your own opinion, leem to me the mold important direction for our conduct. We are fixed upon as the proper persons to determine upon a plan, situation &c. of a Penitentiary house. Why then transfer the office to other persons, whole station of life, and other engagements must render them very unfit for entering into such a matter ? Let us, when we meet, absolutely fix upon one situation, as the bell on the whole, according to our ideas; and specifying our reasons, let us submit the approbation or rejection of this one plan, to those in whom the law has veiled such a power; but not give them the unnecessary trouble, or us the improper degradation, of determining, in our Head, the respective advantages of several different plans. I am sensible that many amendments will occur in the execution of every part of this plan; but these must be the result of experience, as we go on. At any rate, we are the proper judges of that part which the law has committed to us, and ought to follow our own ideas with firmness, without depending upon the superior judgment of others. On my return from Lancashire, the doctor and I fixed on a spot at Islington, our colleague, Mr. Whatley, preferring one at Limehouse. I shall now give the reasons why Dr. Fothergill and myself fixed on two enclosures at Islington, as proper sites for the Penitentiary houses, for male and female convicts; as it may afford some hints, should such a plan, \t\ future, be adopted. This situation possesses the following advantages, some of which are expressly pointed out in the act for erecting these houses. I. The situation is healthy. II. Water is to be had on the premises; of which large supplies may be obtained from the White Conduit, the property of the Charter-house, but now unnecessary to them; as they are more conveniently supplied by the New River Company. III. Should both these sources fail, or prove insufficient, any requisite quantity of water may be had from the New River Company. IV. It is remote from any houses; and so much ground may be purchased, as to prevent other buildings from being erected in its neighbourhood: circumstances parti-culary adverted to in the all providing for these establishments. We apprehended the benefit to be derived from these houses would, in a great degree, depend upon the constant attention of the persons appointed to the government of the institution, the first of its kind in the nation, and designed as a model for others in different parts of the kingdom: and as we thought the intention of the alt was, by lolitary confinement, well regulated labour, and religious instruction, to reform, as well as to punish for past offences, and Remarks ON Peniten- tiary Houses.

were

—4

Remarks

ON

Peniten-

tiary

Houses.

PENITENTIARY HOUSES.

were convinced that these great ends cannot be so easily effected at a distance from London, as in its neighbourhood, on account of the difficulty of prevailing upon proper persons to undertake the charge of the institution; we were induced by these considerations, from a sense of duty to the present and to future ages, to fix upon a place as near the centre of the metropolis as is consistent with the just and salutary views of the legislature. — Among other alterations and amendments which seem very desirable in the present act; I could wish the judges, and their successors, to be constituted perpetual guardians of the Penitentiary houses. In this case, vicinity to the Metropolis will be efiential to a proper situation for them; and, were there no other advantage to recommend tt, I think a proper inspection so absolutely necessary to the good government of Penitentiary houses, that neither expense, nor a fe-zv other conveniences, ought to be set in competition with so important a circumstance.

V. Dr. Fothergill and I apprehended, there would be a considerable advantage at Illington in the ready supply of suitable provisions, such as the coarser parts of ffiambles meat; which, even from the finest animals, may be purchased at a cheaper rate than other pieces; but which can scarcely be collected, in sufficient quantity, except from the markets of the metropolis.

VI. It would be difficult to employ the convicts in railing large quantities of garden productions with security: they mill! also, in this case, have frequent, and unavoidable intcrcourse with other people: and, so near to London, employing them in this manner would be attended with loss; as all kinds of garden produce may be bought there much cheaper than it can be raised, by forced labour.

VII. Except the houses were erected on the fide of the Thames (where we could not find a spacious and proper spot in the vicinity of London or Westminster) or on a navigable canal, both food, and the heavy materials on which the convicts are to be employed, would be brought cheaper to IJlinglon, than to any other place so near the centre of the metropolis.

VIII. Should the convicts ever form a desperate design of effecting their escape, assistance to quell any such attempt might be much more easily procured at Illington, than at any more distant place. The assistants at Clerkenwell, at Newgate and the Compter, as well as the soldiers quartered in the neighbourhood, might soon be convened, and in sufficient numbers, for this purpose.* And, indeed, the certainty of such assistance being at hand, might discourage any such conspiracies: whereas, if the houses were remote, and but llenderly guarded, the officers of them might sometimes fall a sacrifice to the desperate ralhnefs of the convicts.

* My Audious friend, Mr. Loj}?, joins with Dr. Jebb in controverting my idea upon this point; one telling me that in no particular or possible circumAance the interference of the established army should be admitted.” The other: <( that the objections again A employing the military are numerous, obvious, weighty, and irrefiAibly conclusive.”

IX. No

PENITENTIARY HOUSES.

225

IX. No (mail difficulty and expense to the counties are at present incurred in fending their convicts to Woolwich and Plymouth, by reason of their distance from London: for when the convicts come at night to town, they are to be lodged, and securely guarded, at a considerable expense, till they are admitted to the hulks. This difficulty and expense would be prevented by their immediate admission at Islington.

X. I allege, that the expense of building is less, in the neighbourhood of London,

than at a distance from it. Perhaps it may be said that land will be cheaper in proportion farther from the capital. To this I only reply, that the spot at Islington would

probably have come cheaper, at the time it was proposed, than an equal extent in any

other part, about London: but that, for a building which is intended for public utility, and which is to endure for ages-, the difference in the price of land, between one situation and another, is, in my view, a consideration of no weight.—A Penitentiary house for male convicts, erected at Islington, would have this further advantage, that it would be seen by multitudes; yet, be so placed and defended, that no communication could be had with the convicts. Some of them might be seen at labour j or correction, if necessary; and so exhibit an instrudtive leflbn to others, who might be treading in. the fame paths that brought them to such a state of confinement and punishment.

The Penitentiary house for female convicts, and its inhabitants, the doctor and I intended to be totally secluded from the observation of any, by the strudture of the building. But the fame advantages with respect to healthiness,* water, inspection. provisions, fuel, and materials for labour, would also be found in it. However, I

acknowledge it has always appeared to me, that some little difficulty will arise in regard

to the proper management of a house of this kind. If men are to be employed in it, great care must be taken who are trusted in such a place. If women, which I should prefer upon the whole, it will not be easy to find such as have prudence enough to govern without either tyranny on the one hand, or too much imbecillity and relaxation of discipline on the other. Yet, probably it will be a greater difficulty to find men, though of as steady principles as mod we can expect to meet with, who will keep clear, as they ought to do, of all partialities. This I know from my observations in gaols. But

Remarks

0 N

Peniten-

tiary

Houses.

'* In respect to healthiness, the situation at Islington is much more eligible than any of the populous parts of the city — so that by providing airy apartments, free ventilation, ‘ plenty of water; and by promoting cleanliness, accompanied with wholesome food, and a proper degree of labour; the convicts may there enjoy better health than falls to the lot of many thousands of reputable tradesmen and mechanics; and at the same time, these Penitentiary houses would not be so near any other buildings as to facilitate escapes, or prove an annoyance to the neighbourhood.-—I will only add, that when I was supervisor, I listened with eagerness and impartiality to every situation that was proposed, visited the places, and attended to the various opinions that were suggested to me on the subject: nevertheless, upon the moll mature deliberation, I am f ill of the fame opinion, that taking all things together, Ifington is the most proper, and befi spot, on which, to build the Penitentiary houses,

G S

perhaps

226

PENITENTIARY HOUSES.

Remarks

on

Peniten-

tiary

Houses-

perhaps among a greater number of prisoners, as in Penitentiary houses, the danger would be less.

A proper plan for the government of Penitentiary houses is of great importance, and is more practicable than some suspect. I am aware indeed of the difficulty of accomplishing so arduous an undertaking as that of reforming criminals, and inuring them to habits of industry; yet, when it is for the public good, we ought to make experiments; and indeed, what have I been doing in collecting the regulations of some of the heft directed houses of correction in Europe, and such as experience has proved to be practicable, but endeavouring to facilitate the execution of this useful design ? The decency, regularity and order that I observed in the houses of correction in Holland, Hamburg, Bern, Ghent, Florence &c. I am fully persuaded, proceeded, in a great degree, from the

constant attention that is paid to impress the prisoners with a sense of religion, by plain,

serious discourse, catechising and familiar instruction from the chaplains, together with the influence of a good example, both in them and the keepers. These circumstances make a much greater impression upon the minds of criminals, when in prison, than they would have done before they came there. We have too much adopted the gothic mode of correction, viz. by rigorousfeverity, which often hardens the heart; while many foreigners pursue the more rational plan offoftening the mind in order to its amendment.

I hope I shall be excused in repeating some general hints on this subject, as an

outline for the government of such houses.

* Many friendly hours have I spent with Dr. Fothergill, and several of these observations are taken from hints which he suggested. Indeed, our sentiments on this subject so exactly coincided, that I absolutely ref.u/e d acting as a supervisor of the Penitentiary houses, ttnlefs Dr. F other gill were joined with me in the office j which his Majesty gracioufty condescended to grant. But, the cot ft ant opposition we met with from some of those whom the act appointed judges of the lituation, plans Sec. would, I am persuaded, have induced the doctor, had he lived, as well as myself, to have resigned the supervisorship of those houses. I here take the liberty of introducing my letter of resignation, addressed to Earl Bathurst, Lord President of the Privy Council in January 1781, soon after Dr. Fothergill^ death.

MY LORD,

When Sir William Blackstone prevailed upon me to act as a superv’ifor of the buildings intended for the confinement of certain criminals, I was persuaded to think that my observations upon similar institutions in foreign countries would, in some degree, qualify me to assist in the execution of the statute of the 19th year of his present Majesty. With this hope, and the prospect of being associated with my late worthy friend Dr. Fothergill, whose wilhes and ideas upon the subject I knew corresponded entirely with my own, I cheerfully accepted his Majesty’s appointment, and have since earnestly endeavoured to answer the purpose of it; but, at the end of two years, I have the mortification to fee that not even a preliminary has been settled. The Jituation of the intended buildings has been made a matter of obstinate contention, and is at this moment undecided, judging therefore from what is past, that the further sacrifice of my time is not likely to contribute to the success of the plan, and being now deprived, by the death of Dr. Fothergill, of the assistance of an able colleague, I beg leave to signify to your Lordship my determination to decline all further concern in the business; and to desire that your Lordship will be so good as to lay before the King my humble request, that his Majesty will be gracioufty pleased to accept my resignation, and to appoint some other gentleman to the office of a supervisor in my place. I have the honour to be

J. H

With great respect Sec.

[ 227 ]

GENERAL HEADS OF REGULATIONS

PROPOSED TO BE ESTABLISHED IN

PENITENTIARY HOUSES

O R

HOUSES OF CORRECTION.

SECURITY.

Situation—contrivance of the building — lodging up stairs, or over arcades — clothes of two colours—tumbles and low gates — alarm-bell — double doors, one iron-latticed — high wall surrounding — number and disposition of turnkeys— military guard if necessary— gaoler’s windows looking into the yard—collar, ring, or somewhat of that kind to be worn for discovery on escapes—times of opening and (hutting up to be flri&ly observed — caution in admitting visiters — only to be admitted at certain days and times—not many at once — to be searched for tools, spirituous liquors &c.

HEALTH.

Fresh and sweet air—open windows and apertures for a thorough draught of air—prisoners made to go out and air themselves at proper times — privies properly fituated—the sewers spacious.

Cleanliness. I. The prisoners’ persons — use of baths at admission and other times —to wash before meals — water in the courts and wards — soap and towels — finks &c. in proper places — heads lhaved — encouragements to the mod cleanly.

z. Their clothes — linen clean, how often—other clothes—bedding — beds brought out and beaten.

3 The house — washing and sweeping of cells—work-rooms — (laircafes — galleries &c.—fewers—water clofets—oval drains—yards—plenty of water—wade water through the privies—feraping the walls — limewhiting twice a year.

DIET.

Provifansy quantity — and quality — proportioned to work — difference in summer and winter — hot provisions daily — breakfafl— dinner — supper, what — manner of dividing and (haring—hours of meals — allowance in weight — inspectors of provision—house weights—liquor, what, measure of—prisoners allowed to purchase, what and when.

CLOTHING.

A prison uniform—materials—colour &c. — linen provided — (lockings—(hoes &c.

LODGING.

Separate cell for each prisoner—fexes separated—linen, and bedding, what — difference in summer and winter—upon barrack-beds, or iron, or wooden bedsteads---flues or doves to warm the cells in wintertime allotted for deep.

FIRING.

Regula

TIONS.

Fuel, what kind and quantity—-when and how long —fires, where to be made —doves—-flues Sec.

G g 2 RELIGIOUS

22§

REGULATIONS.

RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION AND MORALS.

Regula- Chaplain, his duty—what and when—private admonitions to young offenders—plain, serious discourse

t i on s. catcchifing —- chapel — manner of placing the prisoners in — persons to overlook their behaviour—reward and punishment for behaviour at—visiters dismissed at service time- —prisoners reading chapters or prayers — Bibles, and other books provided — grace at meals —no gaming-—or drinking — ministers of different persuasions allowed.

EMPLOYMENT.

Proportioned to strength—and to degree of criminality — hours of—kinds of—within doors and without doors —number working together—-talks — mere labour — or manufactures requiring ingenuity — the labour of each distinguished from that of another — working at their own trades — clothing &c. of the house made by prisoners—washing —baking — proportion of profit to be allowed to prisoners.

Wholesomenefs of employment-—ready sale of manufacture — conveyance of raw materials, and manufactured—tools required, not dangerous ones —returned at night.

REWARDS.

Shortening term of confinement —work lighter or more agreeable—order of being served at meals—better provision — degree of liberty allowed-—cells more convenient—profit of work — diitribution of charity — advance into a higher class — money given at discharge — clothes given at discharge—a character at discharge

— money at the end of one year, and two years when discharged.

PUNISHMENTS.

Abridgment of diet—or coarser kind —hard or disagreeable work —marks ofriifgrace; wearing collar &c.

— ftripes— term lengthened on attempts to escape — shutting up the refractory in strong rooms — solitary confinement and work.

TREATMENT OF SICK.

An infirmary —a bath —- medical attendance —medicines —freer allowance of diet, milk, wine, bark Sec.— soap and clean linen —frefh air—-nurses, number of — precautions against infection — fumigation — clothes exposed to fire—in an oven, or buried —room for convalescents — gradual return to usual diet and labour.

PROCEEDINGS ON DEATH OF PRISONERS.

Coroner—jury how composed — funeral — without the precincts — how attended—expenfe allowed for.

GOVERNMENT OF PRISON.

Magistrates. 'To visit at proper periods —without previous notice — to fee and examine all prisoners separately — fix rewards or punishments — a room for in the prison.

Inspectors. By whom appointed—their duty—‘time of continuance in office—how often to visit —at unexpected times—to view the whole prison, and hear prisoners* complaints—to examine and weigh provisions — to inquire into the conduCt of prisoners, and represent proper objects for favour — attendance at chapel —no salary.

Gaoler. His duty — inspection of—complaints against admitted — obliged to constant residence — allowed no profit from provisions, liquor &c.— manner of choosing him-—no rent or taxes to pay —no fees, or private emoluments from prisoners — salary of, suitable to the important trust.

Matron. Salary of — duty.

Turnkeys,

Sketch of a Elan and Elevation for a Penitentiahy House, or House of Con election.

Gttanf. n B

Semi Ham of the Grommd. Hour,

tlLllLlllJLIlLTim

4 0 FEET

C O V JR T Jut-WO MESS'.

LIlUiHLte-ilJLIJ

mmm

-i

«1!3 Bath

the Firs

LIllllMlLlll^lliJL

Semi Mam of the First Floor,

fliSffl

puma msExii

j

mwm

4

STmrjTitiTn

i—

H

r'TIWT [ililiim

S V JR O VFT1DIFT G WA L JL

Wa-meitl Infirmary Bast ©

Contt

(inre/rtu " ^ GtnYmota

B*son^P 0arr/'" a,*/,

D

£ un& o unj)in g wax. i

S/crq/m/Jt w Smtm @1 Bath © Infirmary gi5! ijs 1 iiii

Stc-trrlnf, <?/• Boom. Gait/rw r"!?

REGULATIONS.

<Tiwnkeys. number of---by whom appointed — salary — their office.

Manufacturer. Salary of — duty.

Tajkmaster. Salary of — duty.

REGULATIONS MADE KNOWN.

Tables, exposed to public view — intelligibly drawn up — of the duty of officers —of keepers — of prisoners—of hours of opening and dmtting —of work-—of behaviour of keeper to prisoners — of prisoners to keeper—-of rewards and pmiidiments —of attendance on divine service — of diet—where hung—how made known—painted on a board—printed and given to each prisoner—to be read at certain times — by chaplain - — or keeper.*

In the foregoing account of the hulks, I gave the diet table for the convicts, as I have also formerly done that for the prisoners of war, which I found the fame in France as in England: and as I now give a dietary in the annexed draught of a bill; it may not be improper to repeat that for prisoners of war. After thus seeing these Tables together, I presume magiftr'ates will not be forward to aifert that I am an advocate for luxury in prisons. But it may be said, prisoners of war are not felons, nor yet debtors; I grant there is a material difference in the circumstances of foreign and domestic prisoners; but there is none in their nature. Debtors and felons, as well as hostile foreigners, are men; and by men they ought to be treated as men.

TABLE D, ’AVITUAILLEMENT.

Jours. Bierre. Pain. Boeuf. Beurre. Fromage. Pois.f Sel.

Quartcs. Livres. Livres. 0 nces. Onces. Pintes. Onces.

Dimanche I l£ 3 4- - - T

Lundi i 3 4- - - - r

Mardi I u 3 4- - - r

Mecredi i 3 T - - - T

Jeudt I *s 3 4- - - T

Vendredi i ■1 3 -

Samedi I II 4 ou 6 T

Total 7 1°I 4l 4 ou 6 2 2t

f Ou un livre de bon chou chacun.

I need hardly mention that the choice of the place will in some measure direbl the construction of these houses, so that I only give the outlines, or the Jketch of a plan which my late worthy friend and colleague Dr. Fothergill, and myself intended for one of the Penitentiary houses. (See plate'll.'). The elevation is in a great measure taken from the Cloth-hall at Halifax. I must, however, observe, that further consideration has induced me to prefer a spacious walk, clear of buildings, through the centre, with three

* “ The Act of Parliament for Penitentiary houses was originally founded on the principal regulations of the Dutch rasp-houses and spin-houses j” but has received many alterations and improvements. Should this Act be put in execution, the bed information both upon the ancient and present date of those houses, may be found in Pont anus's Latin, and WagenaaPs Dutch Description of Amferdam; as they give the fulled, and mod satisfactory account of them.

courts

230

PENITENTIARY HOUSES.

Peniten-

tiary

Houses.

Peters-

burg

House

of

Correc-

tion.

courts on each fide, and the chapel and chaplain’s apartments at the opposite end, facing the governor’s own apartments. I would wilh that the rooms for solitary confinement at night were not too small, and would plead for the cheering influence of light, as well as of air, in them. The lazaretto at Zante came up to my ideas of the construction of a Penitentiary house, or house of correction, more, I think, than any building I have yet seen. It also had that exposure to the salutary influence of the breezes, and that eheer-fulness of aspect, which are so necessary to relieve the languor attending sickness and confinement.

I conclude this subject in the words of an elegant writer, in the prefatory observations on a draught of a bill to punish by imprisonment and hard labour &c. that, <c if “ a beginning be once made, by adopting such a plan as may appear the least liable to " objections (for none can be entirely free from them) it mull be left to time, expe-“ rience, and the wisdom of subsequent sessions, to revise, improve, and mature it. “ Many useful and essential amendments may, even at present, be expected from others “ who will give their immediate attention: and much must ultimately depend on the “ aflive, judicious, and discreet concurrence of magistrates and gentlemen of weight in “ the different parts of the kingdom: for it will be impossible, in the first introduction of “ so great an establishment, to foresee and prescribe the whole detail of rules necessary to “ be observed; and indeed it will be better, in every respect, to leave that detail, under “ proper checks and restrictions, to be hereafter planned and settled in the several districts “ to be established.”

In my publication in 1784, I gave an account of a house of correction at Veterjhurg which was then nearly finished. I was desirous of giving the plan; but the drawing not having been received in time for that publication, it is here inserted. (See plate xxi.) It is an elegant, though plain building, with fifty-seven windows in front, and two galleries at the back-front, fupiported by pillars. There is an afeent of a few steps to the first floor; all the staircases are done (five feet wide); the rooms are about thirty-three feet by twenty-three; the windows fix feet from the floor; the cielings are lofty, in the middle of which are apertures, fourteen inches square; and the roof consists of thin iron plates.

* At Mo fa, the ancient capital of Ruffin, I found no traces of any such prisons or dungeons as were common

formerly in the Celtics of England, and in several foreign countries. That cruel mode of confinement in many of our prisons, has been, and Hill is a principal cause of the gaol-fever; no symptoms of which did I fee in Peterihurg, Moscow, or in any part of Rufiia.

REMARKS

PETEKSBITBG House of Cohre ctio.a'

Mu, V.\I

Course dc la Mocka

t 231 1

REMARKS

ON THE

GAOL-FEVER.*

I shall take the liberty here to subjoin a few additional remarks on the gaol-fever; in which, if I shall appear to have invaded the province of the gentlemen of the faculty, I hope to be pardoned, from the consideration that my experience in this matter may, in some degree, supply my want of other means of knowledge.

If it were asked, what is the cause of the gaol-fever? it would in general be readily replied, “ the want of fresh air and cleanliness.” But as I have found, in some prisons abroad, cells and dungeons as offensive and dirty as any I have observed in this country, where, however, this distemper was unknown, I am obliged to look out for some additional cause of its production. I am of opinion, that the sudden change of diet and lodging so affefls the spirits of new convicts, that the general causes of putrid fevers exert an immediate effect upon them. Hence it is common to fee them sicken and die in a short time, with very little apparent illness. Convicts are generally flout, robust young men, who have been accustomed to free diet, tolerable lodgings, and vigorous exercise. These are ironed, thrust into close offensive dungeons, and there chained down, some of them without straw or other bedding; here they continue, in winter, sixteen or seventeen hours out of the twenty-four, in utter inactivity, and immersed in the noxious effluvia of their own bodies. On this account, the gaol-distemper is always observed to reign more in our prisons during winter than summerjf contrary, I presume, to the nature of other putrid diseases. Their diet is at the same time low and scanty; they are generally without firing; and the powers of life soon become incapable of refilling so many causes of sickness and despair.

* As the gaol-fever has an immediate connexion with the subjects on which I have been treating, for the fake of such readers as may not have seen what I have formerly said upon it, I here copy it, with a little variation, from my last publication.

f In conversation with the physician to the military hospital at Mofcovj, on my observing that the windows of the wards were shut, he answered; “ Almost all our disorders are in winter; for the RuJJiam enclose themselves in hot rooms, and diilike the fresh air, even before the cold months commence.”

Gaol-

Fever.

On

Gaol-Fevzr.

GAOL-FEVER.

On my visits in 1779, I found only one person ill of the gaol-fever: he was in

Newgate, under sentence of death. In 1782, I did not find a single person labouring

under that disorder throughout the whole kingdom. But in 1783, when the prisons became crowded in consequence of the peace, I was sorry to obfei ve, that through the original faulty conJtruRion of many of them, and the want of attention in magistrates properly to inspect them, and enforce the orders of the Act for preserving the health of prisoners, they were beginning to return to their former wretched state.*

Several instances of alarming and fatal sickness in gaols have since been communicated to me; some of which I have Jeen, and noted in their proper places. I have to remark, however, that it appears doubtful to me, whether, in some of these, the disorder was the proper gaol-fever, produced in and peculiar to such situations; or an epidemic dileafe,

which attacked prisoners only in common with other inhabitants of the fame town. It

cannot be expected that gaols should be preserved free from such visitations as these: it is only to be hoped, that care and attention will be used to prevenc the difeale from becoming more malignant and fatal in these, than in other places, -f-

* It may not be improper here to put persons on their guard against an artifice not unfrequently practised by gaolers, in order to prevent a proper examination of their prisons. When a gentleman, particularly a magifrate, has come with an intention to visit the gaol, the keeper has pretended the utmost willingness to accompany him, but at the same time has artfully dropt a hint that he fears there may be some danger in it, as he is apprehensive that the fever has made its appearance among them. The visiter, alarmed, returns thanks for the kind caution, and instantly leaves the house.— On such occasions I have always the more infilled on the necessity of a close inspection; and have generally found the prison very dirty, indeed, and out of order, but no fever.

f Since my return from Turkey, I have been frequently alked what precautions I use, to preserve myself from infection; I here again anfiver, that next to the free goodness and mercy of the Author of my being, temperance and cleanliness are my chief preservatives. Trusting in Divine Providence, and believing myself in the way of my duty> I visit the most infectious hospitals and noxious cells; and while thus employed, I fear no evil. — However, I seldom enter an hospital or prison before breakfast; in an offensive room I avoid drawing my breath deeply; and on my return, sometimes wash my mouth and hands.

CONCLUSION.

[ 233 ]

CONCLUSION.

IN my late inquiries into the state of the prisons of this country, it has given me sincere pleasure to find, that, from the attention of the magistrates, and the operation of the salutary AEi for prderving the health of prisoners, the gaols of the Capital, though crowded, have been freed from that disease which formerly destroyed more persons than the hand of the executioner; and those in the country have been so much improved, that most of them may now be visited without hazard of infection; whilffc the judges are secured from those risks which formerly attended them in the discharge of their important Office. With satisfaction I have allb observed the liberal and humane (pirit which engages the public to alleviate the sufferings of prisoners in general, and particularly, to release many industrious, though unfortunate, debtors. But at this point, the spirit of improvement unhappily seems to flop, scarcely touching upon that still more important object, the reformation of morals in ourprisons: yet it is obvious that if this be neglected, besides the evil consequences that must result from such a source of wickedness, a suspicion will arise, that what has been already done has proceeded, chiefly, from the selfish motive of avoiding the danger to our own health, in attending courts of judicature.

In this further reformation, it will be absolutely necessary to begin with the Capital: for as, in my former visits, when I have met with the gaol-fever in county prisons, I have been almost constantly told, that it was derived from those in London; so the corruption of manners also, flowing from that great fountain, spreads far and wide its malignant streams. In what prison in London is there a proper separation of criminals, the old from the young, convicts from the untried ? Where are the night-rooms for solitary confinement and reflection ? Where is any proper attention paid to sick and dying prisoners ? Where are the rules and orders of magistrates for the direction of gaolers, and the government of prisoners ? In what gaol are not the ears fliocked with the profaneness both of prisoners and turnkeys ? Where is any regard paid to the Lord's day ? Where is not the afternoon of that day a time of greater concourse of visitants than any other ? And, though the gaoler’s taps are abolished, yet, are not publicans continually waiting to serve the prisoners, and their company ? Is not beer now sold by the debtors ? And do not turnkeys keep pops in the gaols

H h

CONCLtt

SION.

No

No effectual reform will be made in our prisons till the root of these evils be cut off, which, from the cloleft observation, I am convinced is the vice of drunkenness. To this end, restraints rnuft be laid, which will, to many, I am sensible, appear harsh and severe; but, in this matter, there is no medium: any indulgence to particular dalles of prisoners will ruin the whole design. It will, in my idea, according to the annexed draught of a bill, be absolutely necessary to prohibit the introduction of any kind of liquor except milk, whey, butter-milk, or water into gaols; and in order to diminish the apparent hardship upon debtors, 1 heartily wish that such an alteration were made in our laws with respect to confinement for debt, that none should undergo it but difioneft and fraudulent debtors. Such are criminals, and ought to be treated accordingly.

With regard to the health and real comfort of prisoners, I am persuaded, they would be promoted by such a prohibition. Within fourteen years, how many prisoners, together with their keepers, have 1 known destroyed by drinking, and how many convicts, going out of the world, in a state of intoxication! Criminals are, for the rnoft part, under the middle age of life, and therefore strong enough in constitution to bear the trial of thoroughly breaking their bad habits; and as to debtors,* who generally live in prisons in utter idleness, they can have little occasion for strong liquors, and would receive much more benefit from a little addition of meat and vegetables to their diet, which, by this restriction, they might better afford.f

After all, the best laws will fail in their effect, unless the assiduous and zealous endeavours of magiftro.tes be exerted in a strict attention to their execution. Abuses, though ever so studiously guarded against, will creep in; and it requires the utmost vigilance to de'ell, and resolution to reform them. If 1 have been able to point out any of these, and to suggest their causes and remedies, it has been by that elefe, persevering attention to one object, which has in some measure supplied the want of original abilities, and given me clearer notions, and a more decided opinion upon these matters.

* Of this clefs how many persons have I known, or heard of, who have gone into prison sober men; but, who have either defrayed themselves there by drinking, or have gone out mere fits P

f If Gentlemen of the Faculty, and others, Hill object to the exclusion of all fermented liquors from gaols, under the idea that their use is in some measure necessary as aniijcplics, I would desire them to consider, that by the proposed dietary prisoners are to have a -it-arm dish, chiefly of vegetables, twice a day; — and that of female prisoners, who in genera] drink very little beer, a small proportion, compared with the men, die in prison. — I am sensible my ideas are contrary to the present fajhionable mode of prescription, which, I am persuaded, confirms the habit of drinking strong liquors, both in town and country; blit may I not hope, that the opinions of medical gentlemen will, in time, alter as much upon this subject, as I have seen in their treatment of the small-pox

To

CONCLUSION.

*35

1

To my country I commit the result of my pail labours. It is my intention again to Conclu-quit it for the purpose of revisiting Russia, Turkey, and some other countries, and sl°' extending my tour in the East. I am not insensible of the dangers that must attend such a journey. Trading, however, in the protection of that kind Providence which has hitherto preserved me, I calmly and cheerfully commit myself to the disposal of unerring vvifdom. Should it please God to cut off my life in the prosecution of this design, let not my conduct be uncandidly imputed to rajhness or enthusiasm, but to aJerious, deliberate conviction that I am pursuing the path of duty; and to a sincere desire of being made an indrument of more extensive usefulness to my fellow-creatures than could be expected in the narrower circle of a retired life.

DRAUGHT OF A BILL.

Whereas the good and wholesome Laws made for the better regulation of the Gaols Draught of this Kingdom, and for preventing Drunkcnnefs and Rioting therein, have not ^F * proved sufficiently effectual to answer the purposes thereby intended, May it therefore please your Majesty that it may be enacted, and Be it enacted by the King’s most excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and Commons in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, That from and after the twenty-ninth day of September one

thousand seven hundred and-----no gaoler, keeper, or officer of any gaol, prison, or

house of correction, or any person or persons in trud for, or employed by such gaoler, keeper, or other officer, shall permit or differ any liquor of any fort to be brought in, fold, given away, or used in any such gaol, prison, or house of correction, save and except milk, whey, butter-milk, or water; and every such gaoler, keeper or officer offending therein, shall, for every such offence, forfeit and lose the sum of one hundred pounds, one moiety thereof to the informer and the other moiety thereof to the treasurer of the county where the offence shall be committed, to be applied to the use of the county dock; the said penalty to be sued for in any of his Majesty’s courts of record at Wedminder, by action of debt, bill, plaint or information; and in case any such gaoler or other officer, being convicted thereof, as aforesaid, shall again offend in like manner, and be thereof a second time lawfully convicted, such second offence shall be deemed a forfeiture of his office.

And be it further enacted, that if any person or persons shall carry, or bring, or attempt or endeavour by any clandedine ways or means to carry or bring, into any gaol, prison, or house of correction, any liquor of any fort or kind, other than milk, whey, butter-milk, or water; it shall be lawful for the gaol-keeper or other officer of such gaol, prison, or house of correction, or his or their servants to apprehend such

H h 2 person

1

I

236 CONCLUSION.

Draught OF A Bill. person or persons, and to carry him, her, or them before a justice of the peace of the county, division, city, town corporate, or liberty where such gaol, prison, or house of correction shall be situated, who is hereby empowered to hear and determine such offence in a summary way; and if by the oath of one credible witness, or otherwise, he shall convict such person or persons of such offence, he shall forthwith commit such offender or offenders to prison, or to the house of correction, there to be kept in custody for any time not exceeding three months, without bail or mainprize, unless such offender or offenders shall immediately pay down such sum or sums of money, not exceeding ten pounds, and not less than five pounds, as the said justice shall impose as a fine, to be paid one moiety to the informer and the other moiety to the treasurer of the county (lock, to be applied for the benefit of the (lock of the said county, division, town, or liberty, where such gaol or house of correction shall be situated. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that nothing herein before contained shall extend or be construed to extend to any person bringing liquors into the house of the gaoler for the use of the private family of the said gaoler, or keeper of such house of correction, and delivering the fame into the hands of the said gaoler; nor to any person bringing into any infirmary in any gaol or house of correction any liquor or medicine prescribed by any surgeon or apothecary appointed to attend such gaol or house of correction, and delivering the fame into the hands of such surgeon or apothecary or other person appointed by such surgeon or apothecary to receive the same.

And be it further enacted, that the several justices of the peace, at their quarter sessions assembled, are hereby authorised and required to order and direct the several articles mentioned and contained in the schedule hereunto annexed, to be delivered and supplied to any prisoner who shall be committed to any gaol, prison, or house of correction, for any trealon, felony, trespafs or misdemeanor, for the subsistence and support of such prisoner, during the time of his confinement there; and shall likewise order and direct that the rooms in any gaol set apart as an infirmary for the sick prisoners shall be provided with a sufficient number of draw beds, the draw thereof to be changed once in every month at the lead, and shall also direct a proper supply of sheets, rugs or other coverlets for the said beds, and also a proper quantity of linen, and necessary clothing to be _ worn by the said prisoners, and shall also order that from Michaelmas to Lady-Day a fire shall be kept in the room used by the said prisoners as their common or day-room; Provided always that no contract for the supply of any gaol with provisions, bedding, fuel, or any other articles whatsoever shall be made with any person or persons keeping any gaol, prison, 01 house of correction, or any other person employed in or about the fame, nor with any person for the use of any gaoler, or keeper of any prison or house of correction, so that he or they shall have any interest therein, or benefit therefrom.

And

CONCLUSION.

237

And be it further enacted, that the expenses attending the execution of the orders of the said justices, made in pursuance of this Act, so far as the fame respects county gaols, shall be borne and defrayed out of the respective county rates; and so far as the fame shall respect the gaols and prisons of particular cities, towns corporate, liberties or places that do not contribute to the rates of the counties where they are respectively situated, such expenses shall be defrayed out of the public flock or rates of such cities, towns corporate, liberties or places, having an exclusive jurisdiction to which such gaols shall respectively belong.

And be it further enacted, that all prisoners adjudged to be guilty of felony shall be confined and kept separate from the other prisoners confined in such gaols, prisons, or houses of correction, and shall also be put in separate cells, apart from each other, by night, and all other prisoners committed for trial, or confined for the non-payment of fines, shall also be kept separate and apart by night, as far as the structure of the said several gaols in which they may be confined will admit.

And be it further enacted, that each cell or night-room shall be furnished with proper bedding &c. and that no prisoner or prisoners who are not disorderly shall be closely confined in his or their cells or rooms; but they shall be out in the court or yard some hours every day.

And be it further enacted, that every prisoner acquitted or discharged by bill returned ignoramus by the Grand Jury, or on trial, or by proclamation, or on having his Majesty’s free pardon, shall in the presence of the Judge of assize, if at the hellions of Oyer and Terminer or gaol delivery, or of the Justices in their quarter sessions, if at the quarter sections, immediately after such his or her acquittal or discharge or pardon, have his irons taken off in open court, and be it liberty to depart, and shall not be detained on account of any fees whatsoever, or for any debt contrafted during his or her imprisonment claimed by any gaoler or keeper of any prison or house of correction under any pretence whatsoever.

And whereas the great number of persons that daily resort to prisoners confined in the different gaols promotes rioting and debauchery, and tends to the commission of further crimes, and to facilitate escapes from the said gaols; Be it therefore enacted, that no person shall be admitted into any gaol, prison, or house of correction, to visit any prisoner therein confined for debt, but on three days of the week, namely, Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and then only three persons on each of those days to each prisoner so confined, and that no person shall be admitted to visit any prisoner committed for any treason, felony, or breach of the peace, or misdemeanor, but on Friday in each week, and then only two persons on such day to each prisoner so confined.

Draught of A

Eli,1..

Provided

CONCLUSION.

^3* CONCLUSION.

Draught OF A Bill. Provided always, that nothing herein contained shall extend to the excluding of any persons employed in and about such gaols and prisons for the necessary purposes thereof, nor any person coming to execute any legal process, or for the purpose of procuring any affidavit or any attestation from any prisoner therein confined, nor the Judge of assize or Grand Jury at any assizes, nor any Magistrate of the county where such gaols shall be situated, nor any person authorised under the hand and seal of any such magistrate, to visit the said gaol or any prisoner therein, nor any clergyman or minister of any religious fest or persuasion. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that every person committed by virtue of any writ, procels, or action, or attachment, shall, at feasonable times in the daytime, fend for, or have brought to him, her or them any victuals or necessary food, from what place he Ihe or they shall think fit, or can have the fame: and that one or more servant or servants of the gaoler or keeper shall in the morning of every day in the week (Sunday only excepted) go out to order, purchase or provide such victuals, or other necessary food, at the free will and pleasure of such person or persons under confinement. And be it further enacted, that every gaoler, or keeper of every gaol, prison, or house of correction, shall on or before the twenty-ninth day of September one thousand seven hundred and cause one or more copies of this Act to be painted on a board, and hung up in forne of the most conspicuous or public places in such gaol, prison, or house of correction, and renew the fame from time to time, so that it may always be kept fair and legible, on pain of forfeiting the sum of forty shillings to be levied by warrant of any justice of the county, city, town corporate, liberty, division, or place where such gaol, prison, or house of correction [hall be situated; and it shall be lawful for any justice to enter into such gaol and demand a fight of such copy so to be hung up as aforesaid, and if the fame shall not be forthwith lliewn him so hung up in some public place, fair and legible, as aforesaid, such justice shall and may immediately convict such gaoler or keeper of such default, and so from time to time as often as such default shall be made, one moiety of the said penalty to be paid to the informer and the other moiety (or the whole if there be no informer) to the treasurer of the county, to be applied to the flock of the said county. The Schedule to which the above Bill refers. Good wheaten bread, a pound and a half daily, /. e. half a pound at breakfast and a pound at dinner. Breakfast. Every day, a quarter of a pint of wheaten or barley meal, oatmeal or rice made into soup. Dikne r. Sunday and Thursday, a pound of beef, mutton, or pork without bone. Monday and Fridas, a pint of pease boiled in the broth of the preceding day. Tutfday, half a pint of wheat or wheat flour made into pudding or soup. Wedmfday, two pounds of potatoes, turnips, carrots, or other vegetables that are in season. Saturday, a quarter of a pound of clieefe, or the vegetables as on Wednesday, Salty every day, a quarter of an ounce. As.

TABLES.

239

As I have in one or two places referred to the Rules for the Prisontrs of War that I gave in my last publication, which I found adopted in France as well as in England, it may not be displcafing to some of my readers to have them brought to their recollection, and to others who have not seen them, to find them here reprinted.

TABLE I.

Regulations for Prisoners of War in England &c.

Dc par les Commissaires pour le Soin des Malades Sc de Blesses de la Marine., ct pour I’Echange

des Prisonniers de Guerre.

REGLES que tous les Prisonniers de Guerre, dans la Grande Bretagne, ct Vlrlandt,

doivent observer.

I. LES ordres donnes par 1’Agent, aiant foin des prisonniers, doivent etre observes fans replique ou dispute. Qu’aucun des prisonniers ofe infulter, menacer, maltraiter. Sc encore moms frapper le guichetier, ni personne par 1’Agent employe aux affaires de la prison, fous peine de la punition qu’ordonneront Messieurs les Commissaires, ct de perdre Ieur tour d’etre echanges; d’etre etroitement enfermes, et prives de la moitie de leur vivres.

II. Tous les prisonniers, lors que l’Agent en fera la revue, repondront a leurs noms; et fi dans la liste donnee a 1’agent quelque erreur fe trouve, ils Pindiqueront, afin de la corriger; et ainsi prevenir la confusion qui refulteroit des meprifes des noms.

III. Tous les prisonniers refufants de repondre a leurs noms a la revue, feront punis par la privation de leurs vivres, jusque’ a ce qu’ils s’y foumettent.

IV. S’il arrive du dommage aux lieux ou les prisonniers feront gardes, soit en voulant s’echapper, ou autrement, de propos delibere; les frais de la reparation feront payes des vivres de ceux qui auront ainsi contrevenu; et fi les coupables ne peuvent etre decouverts, tous les prisonniers ensemble contribueront de leurs vivres, aux frais de cette reparation.

V. Quiconque s’echappera de prison, etant repris, y fera mis au cachot; et n’y aura que demiration de vivres, jufqu’ a ce qu’il aura ainsi paye les frais faits pour le saisir et le ramener; et de plus, il perdra son tour d’echange; un officier ainsi contrevenant, fera des-lors regarde et traite comme simple matelot.

VI. II eft defendu de fe battre, fe quereller, ou faire defordre dans les prisons, ou aux endroits ou il fera permis aux prisonniers de prendre Pair, fous peine de punition felon que I’offence l’exigera.

VII. Les prisons feront tenues nettes Sc propres par les matelots, et cela tour a tour, comme l’agent Pordonnera; et tout matelot qui refusera ce service a son tour. Sc qui en aura ete averti, fera prive de fes vivres jusque’ a ce qu’il s’y foumette.

VIII. Les prisonniers doivent informer l’agent, des hardes, ou autres choses dont ils peuvent avoir besoin, ct pour lesquels ils auront dequoi payer; et I’agent a ordre non feulement de permettre qu’ils en soient fournis, mais aussi d’avoir un foin tout particulier, qu’on ne leur en impose dans les prix.

IX. Dam

IX. Dans chaque prison les prisonniers pourront nommer trois, ou cing d’entre eux, ct les changer quand il leur plaira, pour l’examen des vivres j afin de voir s’ils font bons, & s’ils ont leur ration, soit pour le poids, soit pour la mesure; suivant la table d’avituaillement ci-defious.* Et s’il fe trouve quelque sujet de plainte, soit fur la maniere de les appreter, servir, ou dans quelqu’autre chose; ils doivent, avec bienleance, le faire fa voir a l’agent j qui, trouvant la plainte fondee, doit immediatement y mettre ordre. S’il le neglige, ils doivent en avertir Mefiieurs les Commissaires, qui ne manqueront pas de leur rendre justice, a tous egards.

X. Les boutiquiers (excepte ceux qui trafiquent dans des choses qu’il ne convient pas de vendre a des prisonniers) feront permis de rester a la grande porte, depuis dix heures du matin jufqu’ a trois heures de l’apres midi, pour vendre leur marchandises, a tels prisonniers, qui font en fonds pour les payer fur le champ.

XI. Celui d’entre les prisonniers qui ofera par ce moyen procurer des liqueurs, ou autres choses &ca. qui ne conviennent pas a un prisonnier d’avoir, ou qui recevra, ou livrera aucune lettre, fera puni de 1’abus qu’il aura salt de cette indulgence.

* The table here referred to is in page 229.

BY THE KING.

Rules to be observed by all Prisoners of War in the Kingdom of France.

Article I. The orders given by the Commissary of the marines encharged with the care of the prisoners are to be ftri&Iy complied with, unargued and undisputed. None of the prisoners shall insult, threaten or abuse, much less strike the turnkey, nor any of those appointed to do business in the prison, under the penalty of incurring such punishment as shall be ordered by the commiftkry of the marines, and of losing turn of being exchanged; nay, further, they {hall be close confined and deprived of one half of their food or pittance.

Art. II. All and every prisoner, when the commifiary makes review, shall answer to their name or names, and if in the lift delivered to the commifiary there be found any error, they shall point it out, that it may be rectified, in order to prevent the confusion that might result from mistaking of names.

Art. III. All prisoners that shall refuse to answer to their names at the review, shall be punished by being deprived of their food till such time as they shall submit to the call.

Art. IV. If there happen any damage to the place where the prisoners are kept, whether it be with intent to make an escape, or otherwise, purposely and wilfully committed, the expense for repairing such damage shall be paid out of the food of those that are found guilty of the infringement; and if there be no means of discovering the guilty persons, all the prisoners shall contribute an equal share out of their food to the charges of such repair.

Art. V. Whoever after escape from his prison is retaken, shall be Ihut in a dungeon, and shall be stinted to half his pittance of food, till he has by this confinement satisfied for the expenses made for seizing and bringing him back to gaol, and shall lose his turn of exchange besides. A sea-officer, thus contravening, shall from that moment be looked upon and treated as a common sailor.

Art. VI. It is forbidden to fight, quarrel, or make any riot in the prisons or places where the prisoners are allowed to take the air, under pain of incurring such punishment as the offence may require.

Art. VII.

TABLES.

241

Art. VII. The piifons {hall be kept clean and neat by the Tailors, every man in his turn, as {hall be regulated, and whatever Tailor {hall refuse this Tervice in his turn, his food {hall be withheld from him till he Tubmit to it.

Art. VIII. The prisoners are to inform the comrruflary of the clothes or other necessaries they may want, and can pay for, and the commissary shall not only allow them to be provided with such things, but {hall also take care they be not imposed upon in the price.

Art. IX. In every prison the prisoners may appoint three or five of themselves, and change them at their pleasure, in order to inspect their victuals and Tee if they be good, and if they have their {hare or portion, whether in weight or measure, according to the following vi6l nailing table; and if there arise any reason for complaint, either of dressing, serving them up, or otherwise, they are with decency to apprise the commissary of it, who, finding such complaint well grounded, {hall give immediate redress, and do them justice.

Art. X. It {hall be allowed to tradesmen or fellers of ware (except such as deal in things that are not fit to be sold to prisoners) to wait at the great gate of the prisons from ten o’clock in the morning till three in the afternoon, in order to Tell their wares to such prisoners as have wherewithal to pay for them on the Tpot.

Art. XI. "Whatever prisoner {hall dare, by this means, to take or bring in strong liquors or other things that are not fit for prisoners, or shall receive or deliver any letter, {hall be punished for the abuse he has made of this facility.

A TABLE OF VICTUALLING.

Days of the Week. Middling Beer or Cider. Bread. j Beef. Butter. Cheese. Pease or Beans.

A Pot containing Pounds Pounds. A Pint

a quart and half Avoirdupois Avoirdupois Ounces. Ounces. Half a Pound

Paris measure. Weight. Weight. Avoirdupois Wt.

Monday I ■1 1 - - r 2-

Puejday I >i i -

J'Vednesday 1 - -

Phurfday l i -

Friday I 4 or 6

Saturday I -

Sunday I i - - I a

7 Pots, or xoiQu. iol 4i + or 6 2

In such places where beer or elder cannot be had, there shall be delivered to each prisoner three quarters of a quart of nvlne per day, Paris measure.

I i

TABLE

242.

T

A B

L E

S.

TABLE II.

An Account of the Number of Prisoners in the Gaols and Prisons of Ireland at the Times they were visited in 1787, and 1788.

In this Table I have omitted mentioning those Prisons in which, at the Times of my visiting in those two Years, there were no Persons confined.

N. B. Where Ciphers art oppofte a Name, it fgnifies that the Pri/on was not visited that Tear.

I in 00 l7 00 00 .787. I 788.

Debtors, . Criminals, Debts. Crim. Debts. Crim. Debts. Crim.

Armagh - 2 18 0 O Kilkenny - 2 ■3 O 0

Carlow - 0 O 4 5 City - 3 7 0 0

Carrickfergus - 5 21 0 0 Kilmainbam - 7 27 8 47

Town - 0 I 0 0 Lifford - 12 20 0 0

Carrick on Shannon - 0 O 2 4 Limerick - 6 >9 0 0

Caflebar - 0 O 4 6 City - - 12 26 7 10

Cavan - 1 36 0 0 Londonderry - 12 23 0 0

Clonmell - 10 51 *9 62 Longford - 8 8 12 20

Cork - 31 64 23 73 Loughrea Bridewell - 0 0 0 3

City - 67 45 76 49 Maryborough - 2 11 1 7

Bridewell - - 2 7 4 5 Monaghan - 13 33 0 0

Downpatrick - 9 26 0 0 Mullingar - 2 24 1 •9

•Dublin Bridewell - 0 6 0 12 Naas - 3 >9 0 0

City Marshalsea 92 0 66 0 Omagh - 16 ■9 0 0

Four C. Marshalsea 150 0 180 0 Philipfown - 0 0 3 3

Newgate - 1 190 0 220 Roscommon - - 1 33 3 '3

Police Prison - 0 3 2 0 12 Sligo - 0 0 2 •9

Thos. Court & Don ore 2 0 0 0 Tralee - 0 0 S 35

Dundalk - 5 8 0 0 Trim - 0 0 5 25

Lnnis - 0 0 6 ’9 Waterford - - 2 6 2 4

Enniskillen - - 3 *5 0 0 City - 3 7 4 7

Galway - - 4 >4 0 0 Wexford - 0 0 7 12

City - - 7 12 0 0 Wicklow - 0 0 1 9

i have visited all the county gaols, and almost all the other prisons; yet, as there are some few of the town prisons which I did not fee, if we add twenty to the number of prisoners, we shall probably have nearly the average number of persons confined at one time in the prisons in Ireland:

Debtors 55°*

Criminals 1004.

Supposed omitted 20.

Total - 1574*

N. B. Where 1 have visited twice, viz. in 1787 and 1788, I have taken, in this estimate, ths laf number.

TABLE

T

A B

243

L E S.

TABLE III.

An Account of the Number of Prisoners in the Gaols and Prisons of England and Wales at the last Time they were visited in 1787, or 1788.

As some County Gaols arc also the County Bridewells, where petty Offenders are not always separated from Felons, in those Places I sometimes include petty Offenders under the Article Felons ISc, — In this Tabic I have omitted mentioning all those Prisons in which, at the times of my visiting in these two Years, there were no Persons confined.

Appleby Deb-tors. I Felons &c. 6 Petty Offenders, O

Bridewell - O 0 I

Aston O 0 5

Aylesbury 11 2+ O

Bridewell - O 0 IO

Banbury - O 0 3

Barking O 0 2

Bath - 2 6 0

Bailey - 22 O 0

Beaumaris - I 4 0

Beccles - O O 3

Bedford - 6 7 0

Bridewell - O O 7

Berwick - 3 O 0

Beverley - 0 O 9

Town - 0 O 3

Hall-garth - 1 O 0

Birmingham - 0 O '3

Court Prison - 0 O 7

Bodmin - 18 S 24

Brecon - 10 I I O

Bridgewater - 3 O O

Bristol - H 43 O

Bridewell - O O H

Lawford’s-gate O O 5

Bury St. Edmunds - 7 >7 O

Bridewell - O O 3

Cambridge - 7 8 O

Bridewell - O 0 13

Town - 2 1 O

Bridewell - O 0 9

Cardiff - 23 7 O

Carlisle - 32 20 2

173 >59 133

Carmarthen Deb- tors, 5 Felons &c. 7 Petty Offenders', 2

' Town - 0 2 2

Carnarvon - 3 0 O

Chelmsford - 3> 76 O

Bridewell - O 0 30

Chester - ■9 37 O

City - 8 9 O

Bridewell - 0 0 Z

Chesterfeld Bridewell - 0 0 4

Chichester - 0 0 z

Colchester - 0 0 3

Bridewell - 0 0 5

Coventry - 10 10 O

Bridewell - 0 0 8

Covj bridge - 0 0 6

Dartford - 0 0 9

Derby - 7 11 O

Town - 1 2 O

Devizes - 1 0 29

Dorchester - 23 8 O

Durham - 16 '3 O

Bridewell - 0 O IO

Ely - 2 3 0

Bridewell - 0 O I

Exeter - 0 23 2

Sheriff’s Ward 44 O O

Bridewell - 0 O 22

City - 2 I I O

Flint - 4 3 I

F olkingham - 0 O 3

Gloucester - 24 57 O

Bridewell - 0 O 5

City - 5 6 0

2 205 278 146 Gofporl

44

TABLES,

Go/port Deb- tors, O Felons (5tc. O Petty Offenders, 2

Guildford - O O 8

Halifax - 4 O 0

Haverfordwest - 3 4 0

Hereford - 6 25 0

Bridewell - O O 5

City - 2 O 1

Hertford - 8 3 0

Bridewell - 0 0 3

Horsham - 16 ■5 0

Hull - 12 4 0

Bridewell - I O 3

Huntingdon - 4 9 0

Bridewell - 0 O 2

Ipswich - ■5 18 0

Bridewell - O O 9

IVELCHESTER - 57 17 0

Kendal Bridewell - O O 6

Kingjl on - 4 O O

Bridewell - O O 24

Lancaster - 53 65 O

Launceston - O 3 O

Leeds - O 0 I

Leicester - ■5 14 O

Bridewell - O 0 9

T own - I 1 O

Lincoln - 20 29 O

City - O 5 O

Bridewell - O O 3

Liverpool - l8 22 O

Bridewell - O O ■5

London Bridewell - O O 29

Borough Compter II O O

Clerkenwell - O 167 O

Bridewell 3 O 234

Fleet 212 O O

King’s Bench 444 O O

Marshalsea - - 37 O O

Newgate i‘4 499 0

New Ludgate - 24 O 0

Poultry Compter 35 ■9 0

Savoy - O O 45

Tothill-fields Bridewell 3 O ■35

Tower Hamlets - O O I

Westminster Prison O O 94

Wood-street Compter 44 48 O

1166 967 629

Lojlwithiel Deb-tors. 5 Felons &e. O Petty Offenders• O

Ludlow - - 0 O r

Macclesfeld - - 6 O 0

Maidstone - - 31 80 0

Bridewell - O O 25

Manchester - - O O 53

Marlborough - - O O 5

Middlewich - - 0 O 24

Monmouth - - 6 IO O

Town - - O 2 O

Montgomery - - 9 12 O

Bridewell - O O O

Morpeth - - !5 12 O

Bridewell - O O 2

Nantwich - - O O 2

Ne-ivcajile - - >4 IO O

Bridewell - O O 6

Newport, Essex - - O O ■3

Northampton - - 9 20 O

Town - - O I O

Norwich - - 20 20 O

City - - l6 IO O

Bridewell - O O 12

Nottingham - - 12 !9 O

Bridewell - O O 3

Town - - 5 O 1

Oakham - - O O 1

Od'tam - - O O 2

Oundis - - O O 1

Oxford - - 12 24 0

City Bridewell - O O 7

Peterborough - - O I 0

Bridewell - - O O 1

Petworth - - O O 5

Plymouth - - O O 3

Portsmouth - - 3 8 0

Presteign - - 5 2 0

Preston - - 1 0 37

Reading - - 10 18 0

Bridewell - - 0 0 *7

Ruthin - - 12 9 O

Bridewell - - O 0 2

St. Alban's Borough gaol O 1 O

Liberty - O 6 O

St. George's Fields Bridewell O O 34

Salisbury - - ■3 17 0

204 282 257

Sheffield

TABLES.

245

Deb- Felons Petty Deb- Felons Petty

tors. &c. Offenders. tors. ®c. Offender

Sheffield - 16 O O Warwick - 31 60 O

Town O O I Bridewell 0 0 10

Shepton-Mallet O O 35 Winchester - 3> 3° O

Sherborn - O 0 9 Bridewell 0 O 26

Shrewsbury 25 29 O Windsor Castle 2 O O

Bridewell O O '4 Town O I O

Southampton Sheriff’s Ward 2 O O Worcester - 23 47 O

Town - O 2 O Bridewell O O >3

Southwark 26 55 O City - - 12 >5 O

Southwell - O O I I Wymundham 0 O l6

Stafford - 3* 6l 0 Yarmouth I 9 O

Bridewell O O 18 Bridewell O O I

Taunton - 0 O >4 York - 5° 51 O

Thirfi 0 O I I City - - IO 6 O

UJh - 0 O 4 St. Peter’s - - 3 O O

Wakefield - 0 O 54 Bridewell 0 O IO

IOO >47 17' 163 219 76

From foregoing pages ■73 159 133 205 278 I46

l66 967 629 204 282 257

Great Total I 439 1273 933 And - 572 779 479

Total Number of Debtors _ 2011. Total Number of Prisoners in the Hulks '937-

- - - Felons &c. - 2052. Supposed omitted 7°-

- Petty Offenders - 1412. —

Total Number of Prisoners 7482.

Though I have visited all the County Gaols in England, and almost all the other prisons, yet as there are some few of the corporation prisons which I did not fee, I have added seventy more prisoners to the number; so that, probably, we have nearly the average number of persons confined at one time in all the prisons of this kingdom.

I subjoin the Numbers conffiied in the London Prisons and in the Hulks, at the time they were visited in 1788,

which are as follows.

Debiers. Felons &c. Petty Offen. Debtors. Felons &c. Petty Offei

London Bridewell - 0 O 29 London New Ludgate 24 O O

Borough Compt. 11 O O Poultry Compter 35 *9 O

Clerkenwell - 0 167 O Savoy 0 O 45

Bridewell 3 O 234 Tothill-Fields Bride. 3 0 ‘35 1

Fleet - - 212 O O Tower Hamlets 0 0

King's Bench 444 O 0 Westminster Prison 0 0 94

Marshalsea 37 O 0 Wood-street Compter 44 48 0

Newgate - 114 499 0 In the Hulks - 0 ■937 0

S21 666 263 106 2004 2 75

Great Total 927 2670 538

n

TABLE

T

A B

L E S.

246

TABLE IV.

An Account of the Number of Convicts ordered for Transportation, from the ill of November, 1769, to the ill of November, 1776; extradled from the Lifts transmitted to the Clerk of the House of Commons, and distinguishing

I. The number of consul els in that period, sent from the Old Bailey in London and Middlesex; the Affixes in each county of Englandwhere any are held; and the great feffons in Chester and Wales.

II. The like from the quarter feffons.

III. Totals of both.

IV. The annual average during that period, being really only six years and an half; the practice of

transportation having in great measure ceased before the ill of May, 177 6.

H O ME Cl R c u: I T. N 0 R F 0 L K C I R C U I T.

Gad Dtliveries Quarter Total of Yearly Gael Deliveries Smarter Total of Yearly

Great Sefforts. Seffons. both. Average. Great Seffons. Seffons. both Average

Essex IO6 IO 116 18 Bedfordshire 40 O 40 7

Iiertfordshire 49 5 Buckinghamshire 44 IO 54 9

St. Alban’s O 18 72 12 Cambridgeshire 23 2 25 4

Kent I l6 45 Ely 8 O 8 3

Dover O 3 164 26 Huntingdonshire >7 O >7 3

Canterbury O 6 6 I Norfolk - 70 3

SulTex 34 3 King’s Lynn O 9

Chichester O I 38 6 Yarmouth O >3 95 ■5

Surrey I67 83 Norwich 12 O I 2 2

Southwark O 18 268 42 Suffolk 72 4

Bury 0 5

M 1 D t AND C I R C U I T. Ipswich 0 5 86 14

Derbyshire 27 ■7

Derby O 5 49 8 N 0 R T H E R N Cl r e u i T.

Lincolnftiire 5° O

Parts of Holland 0 O

Parts of Kefteven 0 I Cumberland II 20 31 5

Parts of Lindsey 0 IO 6l 10 Durham 23 >3 36 6

Lincoln 4 O 4 I Northumberland 18 9

Nottinghamshire •9 20 39 6 Berwick O 2 29 5

Nottingham 7 7 14 3 Newcastle on Tyne IO 17 27 5

Rutlandihire 8 0 8 2 Weltmorland 3 O

Leicestershire 25 O 25 4 Kirkby in Kendal 0 I 4 I

Leicester - 9 3 12 2 Lancashire 44 95

Northampton shire 28 •3 4> 7 Liverpool O 22

Warwickshire I 12 2 114 IS Preston 0 I

Coventry - 28 O 28 5 Wigan 0 4 166 26

739 27O 1059 17> 395 235 630 IO4

Yorkshire

TABLES

247

Gaol Deliveries Quarter Total of Yearly Gaol Deliveries Quarter Total of Yearly

Great Sessions, Sessions, both. Average, Great Sessions. Sessions, both. Average

WESTER N C I RCUIT.

Yorkshire 124 O

East Riding 0 >4 Cornwall S3 25 78 12

North Riding 0 4 Devonshire 104 29

Weft Riding 0 42 Plymouth 0 7 140 22

Doncaster - 0 I Exeter 1 4 s I

Leeds 0 7 Dorsetshire S3 11 64 IO

Pontefract - 0 1 Poole 1 3 4 I

Richmond - 0 1 Hampshire n3 5 118 >9

Rippon 0 1 l9S 30 Southampton 1 5 6 1

York 12 5 l7 3 Wiltshire 60 26

Kingston on Hull 1 8 9 2 Salisbury - 0 3 89 *4

Somersetshire 120 40 160 25

Bristol 36 73 109 ‘7

City of London 699 0 699 i°7

0 X F 0 R D Cl R C U I T. Middlesex - ] l365 394

Westminster P >59 I9I8 296

CHESHIRE AND WALES.

Berkshire 57 '5 Cheftiire 16 3 >9

Reading 0 7 79 13 Chester 0 '4 14

Oxfordshire S3 3 Anglesey 1 2 3

Banbury O 2 B reck nock shire '4 O <4

Oxford O 4 62 10 Cardiganshire - 3 0 3

Gloucestershire 119 >9 >38 22 Carmarthenshire 8 0 8

Gloucester - 7 7 ■4 3 Carmarthen 0 O 0

Herefordshire 49 O 49 8 Carnarvonftiire - 2 1 3

Monmouthshire 44 2 46 8 Denbigh ftiire 0 5 5

Salop 82 12 Flintshire 1 5 6

Shrewsbury 0 s 99 l6 Glamorganshire 12 O 12

Staffordshire 85 II 96 >5 Merionethshire 5 O 5

Litchfield - 0 3 3 1 Montgomeryftiire 5 O 5

Worcestershire 59 0 59 10 Pembrokeshire 5 . O 5

Worcester 15 0 ■5 3 Haverford-Weft 0 0 0

Radnorshire 2 0 2 l6

707 174 881 ■44 2680 814 3494 541

Foregoing page 789 270 1059 i?1 395 235 630 104

1496 444 1940 3'5 3075 1049 4124 645

1496 444 1940 3*5

Great Total 4571 1493 6064 960

TABLE

TABLES.

TABLE V.

An Account of the Number of Prisoners convicted of Capital Crimes in Scotland, from id; of January 1768 to ill: May 1782.

This Mark * denotes a Person pardoned; the rejl mere executed.

Northern Circuit. Southern Circuit. Western Circuit.

1776

1777

1778

1780

1781 17S2

Edtn- b-jrgb. Ahcr- t, , Inver-, Perth. r attn. ness. Ay, burgh, fries. J Glus- Stir- goio. hng. Crimes.

I - - - Forgery.

* I - ~ 1 Horse-stealing. Murder and Robbery.

I I I I I - - Murder. Street-robbery, Forgery. House-breaking and Theft. Sheep-stealing.

I # I - * I: Robbery. Murder. House-breaking and Theft. Theft.

* I - I: : *2 Child-murder. Horse-stealing. House-breaking and Theft.

1 2 - I - I * I - - I - - *2 1 *1 2 1 House-breaking and Theft. Sheep-stealing. Murder and Robbery. Horse-stealing. Moider. Robbing the Mail. Theft, Robbery &c. Robbery. House-breaking and Robbery.

*«3 * I * I I - I * I * 1: Murder. Returning from Transportation. Horse-stealing. Sheep-stealing. House-breaking and Theft, Theft of Cattle. Rape.

1 1 Murder. Theft.

2 I I I 1 i - Robbery. Child-murder. Shop-breaking and Theft. Murder. Theft. Stealinga Letter from Post Office.

. - *1 Child-murder.

- - I - - Theft of Cattle.

- * I 1 - Murder. Murder and Robbery.

” 2 * 2 I I 1 - 1 - - Robbery. Shop-breaking. Foigery House-breaking and Theft. Murder by Polfon. Theft from Post Office.

* I: - - *2 1 1 2 Robbery. Theft from Post Office. House-breaking and Theft

I 1 - I - - Sheep-stealing. Robbery.

3* 9 2-; 5 9 5 2 - 3 •? 9 2 524 2 1 1 3 * 3 9 5 7 3 76 'lotat Condemned. 22 - Pardoned ^4 - Exieuted.

TABLE

T A B L E S. 249

T A E L E VI.*

An Account of the Number of Prisoners convicted of Capital Crimes in Scotland, from ift of January 1783 to 20th of August 1787, as taken from the Records.

This Mark * denotes a Person pardoned; the rest were executed.

Northern Circuit. Southern Circuit. Wistfrn Circuit.

Edin- burgh, Aber- deen. Perth. Jnver- nefs. j'd- burgh. Dum- fries- Ayr. Ghf- gOIV. Inve- rary, Stir- ling. Crimes,

pz Street-robbery.

I *1 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ House-breaking and Theft.

*1 _ _ _ > _ _ . _ . Theft and Refett.

I7S3 I - - - - Robbeiy.

- - - *1 - - Sheep-fteaiing.

- - *3 - - - - *1 _ Theft.

- - - t - Horse-stealing.

_ a . . _ . . *2 . . Theft.

- 1 - - - - Stealing a Child.

- - - 1 - - Robbery,

- - - - - 1 Murder.

' - - - - 1 House-breaking and Theft.

a _ _ . House-breaking and Theft.

- - - 1 - - - . - - Sheep-fteaiing.

1785 - I - - - - Wilful Fire-raising.

- - - - - * 1 _ *1 - _ Theft.

- - I - - - Forgery.

- - - 1 - - Murder.

" - - a - Robbery.

a _ _ _ _ _ . . . House-breaking and Theft.

1 - Pocket-picking.

- 1 - - - - 1 - _ Theft.

1 - Robbery.

a - Robbery of the Mail.

- - - *3 - - Sheep- stealing.

■ - I - - - Stealing a Letter from the Mail,

- - - - a - Horse-stealing.

" - " “ * I Murder.

1 - - _ _ _ _ Murder of his own Child.

1 - Sheep-fteaiing.

' - - - - 1 - - Theft.

1787 - *1 - - - - Shop-breaking.

■ ' " - - *1 - a - - Robbery.

- - * - - 1 - - - - Murder.

" " •1 - House-breaking and Theft.

16 7 a 8 4 3 * 12 I 3 58 Total Condemned.

2 2 - 4 1 a 3 I 15 - Pardoned.

I+ 5 a 4 3 1 2 9 3 43 - Executed.

This table was originally intended to be N°. I. but it has been since thought more proper to place it after the foregoing tables.

IC k

TABLE

250

T

A B L

E S.

TABLE VII.

A I.ist of Fees due to the Clerks of Assize * of the several Circuits in England, and their Officers, from Prisoners charged with Felony—Burnt Whipped — Acquitted — Discharged by Proclamation — or against returned by the Grand Jury not true Bills.

HOME CIRCUIT. Burnt in the hand -

Whipped -----

Acquitted -----

Discharged by proclamation -

Recording every ignoramus in felony -

NORFOLK CIRCUIT. Acquittal and order of delivery in murder The like in all other felonies -

Order of delivery on proclamation -

Ditto on ignoramus bill -----

MIDLAND CIRCUIT. Acquittal and discharge fee in murder -The like in all other felonies -

Discharge fee on recording ignoramus bill -

Discharge fee on proclamation -

OXFORD CIRCUIT. For every prisoner acquitted of felony on one indictment discharged For every acquittal after the first -

For every prisoner discharged by proclamation -

Guilty burnt in the hand or whipped and discharged -

WESTERN CIRCUIT. Acquittal including plea and discharge -Ignoramus 13 j. 4^. and discharge 13/. \d. -

DifchArge by proclamation -

ConviQion In man-daughter -

NORTHERN CIRCUIT. Not guilty discharged -

Discharged by proclamation -

the Hand—

m Bills are

£• s. D.

0 4 8

0 4 8

0 8 4

0 8 4

0 6 4t

1 S 0

1 1 4

0 >5 8

0 *3 4

1 7 8

1 6 8

1 0 0

0 •3 4

0 17 8

0 8 8

0 9 0

0 >4 0

1 10 8

i 6 8

0 13 4

0 17 4

1 5 4

0 14 8

* The Clerks of assize give to the judges large (urns for their places. One of the present gentlemen gave for Ills place iivo thousand jivt hundred pounds. On many accounts these places ought not to be bought of the judges. If they were only presented, the fees might be much lower, — The demand from several gaolers for a copy of the judge’s calendar is now £1: 1: 0: whereas his Majesty’s Commissioners for inquiring into the Officers and their fees &c. in the Home Circuit, were of opinion that a demand not near so much was enormous, as we fee in their report dated ift December 1735 (M. S, page 21 j)

« paid by the gaoler of the County of Surry for the copy of a calendar - £076

« And by the gaoler of each of the other countys - - - .-050

* As to these two last Fees or articles, We are of opinion that they are unrcasonable and no ways to be justified, &c,”

•j- “ We present this as a very “ Bill being found Ignoramus) “ not to be justified."

hard and unreasonable fee to be executed and taken of a person who must be supposed (by the to be innocent of the charge alledged against him in such a bill, and therefore in our opinion is

Report of his Majesty's Commissioners appointed to inquire into the Officers and their fus t$c. $f the Courts within the Horn c-Circuit, Dated Dec, if. 1735. til, S. page 11.

TABLE

'773-

■774'

1775-

TABLES. 25'

TABLE VIII.

Felons delivered from Newgate to be 2"ranfported.

Sessions. London. Middlesex. Hicks's mji- Lower Capital

Hall. minster. Sessions. Respites. Total

January 10 '9 3 6 - 38

February 8 24 9 - - 4‘

April 16 24 ■9 H 10 93

May 10 29 »4 - - 53

July *4 49 6 S - 74

September I I 24 9 - - 44

October 10 >7 8 6 - 41

December 10 '5 9 - l7 S'

89 201 77 3* 37 435

January 4 18 3 25

February 16 33 7 3 1 60

April >5 24 >7 >3 1 70

May 6 22 2 - - 3°

July H ZZ 12 8 4 3° 90

September za 16 10 - 3 I 51

October 8 8 6 s 1 28

December H ZZ l6 - 1 >3 66

99 165 73 29 ‘0 44 420

January 9 29 >4 9 . 6l

February 9 zo 7 - 2 38

April '9 '7 IZ 4 - 52

May S 9 2 - - 16

July 6 I I 7 S 20 49

September '4 ZO 6 - - 40

October 9 10 7 4 2 32

December 8 9 7 - I I I 3*5

79 125 62 22 S 3' 324

-C Great Total "79

K k 2 T A B L E(

An Account of the Number of Criminals condemned to Death; executed; and Jtnlenced to Transportation: with their respective Offences: from the Year 1750 to 177a inclusive; within the several Counties &c. in the Norfolk Circuit.

te3

s- §3

Q a 2S a & e fT"

f

g-jj!

a- GC

*>-

175° 2 3 8 8

>75 > - 6 4 6

I752 3 3 3 >5

*753 2 + 2 1 1

>75+ - 9 2 >7

'755 - 2 4 7

1756 - 2 2 7

>757 1 8 5 1 I

^4 CO - 2 6 >5

>759 - 2 3 8

I760 - 5 3 3

I761 1 1 2 2

1762 1 1 1 1

1763 3 3 1 5

1764 - 4 2 8

>765 - 4 2 >4

I766 2 8 4 >4

1767 2 6 2 >4

I768 - 1 1 10

>7fi9 2 9 1 4

1770 - 5 5 12

177> 1 4 1 6

1772 - I 1 4

Total 20 93 65 202

>3

R

5^ O

0^

to § i?

9 a 0 S R 5,

§> ! to §

a «S-

- - - 21 IO

- - - I 6 12

1 - 3 23 1 1

- - 2 21 6

1 - 4 33 *3

- - 1 >4 2

- - 6 >7 1

- - 2 27 6

- - I 24 5

- - >3 3

- - - 1 1 3

- - 2 8 z

2 1 I 8 2

- - I >3 5

- 3 2 >9 3

- - - 20 1

- - 2 3° 4

- - 6 3° 5

- - 4 l6 5

- 1 I 18 6

- 1 1 24 7

- - 4 l6 5

- - 1 7 -

4 6 +4 434 >>7

>3

£0

§ Cp

8. O a 5> Q <2 §

«L

1 t a § to e 1 to a 3 9 her Crimes• ? a

8 2+ 3 - 35

12 2+ - - 36

>3 28 1 2 44

IO 18 1 - 29

20 29 1 4 54

9 20 1 1 3>

l6 18 1 - 36

12 34 - 1 46

23 3> 1 2 57

>5 12 2 - 29

I I >5 - 1 27

4 >3 - 1 18

3 10 - - x5

6 >9 1 2 27

IO 16 1 4 29

>9 29 1 2 52

>7 27 - 1 45

38 34 - - 72

l6 35 1 2 55

1 1 22 - 2 34

■7 18 - - 35

1 I 3° - 2 43

7 >7 - 1 25

30 8 52J r5 28 874

TABLE

TABLES,

253

TABLE X.

An Account of the Number of Criminals Condemned to Death; Executed; and Sentenced to Transportation: with their respective Offences: from the Year 1750 to 1772 inclusive; within the several Counties &c. in the Midland Circuit.

§ ba S '§5 Cl a Co ft* J?

X) >s a to^ 9 0- 8.

r? vi 5

S> S' s. £ 9 s 9 5". 5 £5 oto g-s

1750 I - 6 4 3 16

1751 * 4 5 - 3

1752 t I 2 - 1 16

>753 * - 8 1 1 *7

*754 - * 3 1 - 20

'755 - 2 4 2 3 10

*756 2 - 1 4 1 ll

17 57 * - 2 3 1 H

1758 I 5 5 - J9

'759 - 4 4 - 1 16

I760 - 1 1 - - 12

I76l I 2 3 1 1 6

1762 - 2 - - -r 8

I763 - 1 4 1 1 9

1764 - 3 6 1 - H

■765 - 3 4 5 1 9

I 766 - 1 4 2 4 12

*767 - 2 4 6 > 11

I768 - - 2 2 1 l7

1769 - 2 5 1 - 10

1770 - 2 3: 1 6

I77I - - - 3 - 6

*772 - J 5 2 - 11

Total 4 30 So 49 20 2 79

O

Forgery. vl ? ■*§> a |o|' |> Co V 5* "S 0 § a | §. to S Executed. 2 5 s to 2 tOJ*, 5 3 2.8

7 - 5 §- S V 5“

- - 2 3s 5 5°

“ - - D 3 47

- - 3 23 3 45

1 - 1 29 1 58

- - 4 29 4 63

- - 4 2S 6 44

1 - 4 3° 6 44

- 2 - 22 4 60

1 - 4 35 6 54

1 2 3 31 9 43

" - 1 ■5 2 32

- - 1 ■5 S 28

- 1 - 11 4 23

3 1 3 23 ■4 45

- - 1 2S 11 63

- - - 22 7 62

- - 3 26 4 63

- - - 23 6 45

1 - - 23 2 49

- - 5 23 6 37

- - * >4 4 45

- - 1 9 2 36

- - J 20 2 21

8 6 42 5.8 116 1057

(j

TABLE

54

TABLES.

TABLE XI.

ABSTRACT of Sir STEPHEN THEODORE JANSSEN’s TABLE

Of Criminals Condemned; Executed and Pardoned, at the Old Bailey, London, from the Year 1749 to 1771 both inclusive.

Condemned. Executed. Pardoned idc.

Peace >7+9 61 - 44 - ‘7

- - 1750 84 - 56 - 28

- - 1751 85 - 63 - 22

- - 17S2 - 47 - 5

- - >753 57 - 4‘ - 16

- - 1754 5° - 34 - 16

- - •755 39 - 21 - 18

428 306 122

Peace and War 1756 30 - ‘3 - ‘7

War ‘757 37 - 26 - 11

175S 32 - 20 - 12

‘759 ‘5 - 6 - 9

- - I760 ‘4 - 10 - 4

- - I76l 22 - 17 . - - 5

I762 25 - •S - 10

Paece and War 1763 61 - 32 - 29

236 139 97

Peace 1764 S2 - 3 ‘ - 21

- - 1765 4‘ - z6 - ‘5

- - 1766 39 - 20 - ‘9

- - ‘767 49 - 22 - 27

- - 1768 54 - 27 - 27

- - 1769 7‘ 1 - 24 - 47

- - ‘77°’ 91 - 49 - 42

- - 1771 60 - 34 - 26

457 233 224

Tot a l 1121 678 443

TABLE

TABLES.

a55

Table XI. Continued-

THE RESPECTIVE OFFENCES.

1 % 'S. sf! o5 D S’ § 1 ft t-'S.

1 1 0? 1 <3 cl' Is S’ 3* ? 1 0 1 i-a?

P Total

Sentenced to Death 81 208 362 90 95 I 1 31 3 240 1121

Executed 72 118 2SI 22 7‘ 10 22 3 109 678

Pardoned, transported, } or died in Gaol j 9 90 I I I 68 24 I 9 0 131 443

Of the hundred and twenty Sessions in the fifteen Years of Peace (eight in a Tear) only one was Maiden, in 1749. — Of the sixty-four Sessions in the eight Years of War, nine were Maiden.

Sir Stephen intending a list only of those who were condemned to die, has not in his table a column for transport convicts. But at the bottom of the lheet he notes that there were

Transported for seven or fourteen years - - - - 5199

To which number he adds

Transported by the King’s mercy (after receiving sentence of death) - 401

Total Transports 5600

The second number of transports 401 is, doubtless, part of the number 443, the last of the threQ totals above.

TABLE

wa r

TABLES.

2S0

TABLE XII.

AN ACCOUNT OF

The Number of Convicts executed, for London and Middlesex; from December 1771, to December 1783.

Murder. Comers. Various Crimes. Rioters

Men. Women, Men. Women, Men. Women. Men. Women. Total

Fran Dec. 1771 to Dec. '772> 3 - 2 - 32 - - - 37

Dec. 1772 to Dec. >773. 1 1 burnt I - 29 - - - 32

Dec. ■773 to Dec. '774- - 1 - - 31 - - - 32

Dec. '774 to Dec. '775. 1 3 - 40 1 - - 4 6

Dec. 1775 to Dec. 1776, 6 - 8 - 24 - - - 38

Dec. 1776 to Dec. 1777. - - 1 - 29 - - - 32

Dec. ■777 to Dec. ‘778> - 1 - 31 - - - 33

Dec. 00 t'-. r-^ to Dec. '779. - - ' 2 I burnt >9 1 - - z3

Dec. ■779 to Dec. 1780, 1 - 2 - 24 1 '9 3 5°

Dec. O 00 to Dec. 1781, ' - 1 - 33 S - - 40

Dec. I78I to Dec. 1782, - - - - 44 1 - - 45

Dec. I782 to Dec. 1783, - - 6 - 52 1 - - 59

16 3 27 I 388 10 '9 3 467

I persuade myself that my readers will excuse the insertion of several Tables here which I have before given in my lafi publication, as this book may fall into the hands of some who have not the other in their pofielTion. And may I not indulge the hope that, many years after I shall be dead and forgotten, these Tables, being of a public nature, will be occasionally reviewed, and may have inferences drawn from them which will,; in their conferences, contribute to allc-viate the miseries of mankind, and add something to the general Hock of bnppine/s among the human race

TABLE

TABLE

S.

257

TABLE XIII.

AN ACCOVNT OF

The Number of Convicts executed in London and Middlesex, from December 1783 to December 1788.

6=

I*

gO

S 1?

41-

S’J

>a

Executed. Men. Women, C-c, Q it '3'. a °? ;T Total.

January zi. 3 1 - 1 2 1 - - - 4

March 4. 6 - - 2 3 - - 1 6

April 14, 4 - - - 2 Z - - - 4

June *3> •S - - - 12 2 - - I •5

July 5 - - - 5 - - - - 5

September 1, 6 - - - 1 4 - - 1 6

- 20, I 1 - * - I

November 135 2 - 2 - - 2

- ■7. 9 - - - 3 3 - - 3 9

December 29, 6 - - - 4 - - 2 6

57 " 3 28 l6 2 “ 8 58

January 5> I - I

February 2, 20 - - 1 12 6 - - I 20

March 3» 5 - - - 1 3 - - I 5

April II, I - * 1 - - - I

26, I - - - 1 - _ * - _ I

z8. ■9 - - 2 6 5 - - 6 ■9

June I, 10 _ - - 2 6 - - 2 10

July 6, 5 - - 1 2 2 - - - 5

August 17. 7 1 - - - 5 3 - - 8

November 10, 18 - - 1 5 5 - _ 7 18

December Ij ’ 9 - - - 7 - - 2 9

96 1 1 - 5 1 'O 3* 3 - 20 97

h I

Table

Table XIII. Continued.

When Executed. Men. Women. Murder. Coining. Forgery. Burglary and Stealing Horses. 0^' 55- s! §- s- S3 Q ? Co Oq Various Felonies. Total

1786. January 10, 16, 7 1 1 - 1 4 - - - 2 7

February 23> 'S> 5 1 _ - 2 , I “ , 1 5

- - 27> 2 1 - - - - I - - 2

April 12, 19, 21, 10 - - - 9 1 - - - 10

June 6 1 - 2 - 1 3 _ - , 7

July 27, September 14, November 22, 2 5 7 - - - 1 4 2 3 - - 2 2 5 7

December 18, 3 3 - - - 3

50 1 6 2 2 z3 10 2 - 6 51

787. January 9- 18 - - - - 9 6 - - 3 18

February i+. 12 - - - - 5 5 - - 2 12

March 1, 8 1 - - 1 5 3 - - - 9

April 26, 13 2 - 1 1 8 4 - - 1 >5

July 4. •3 - - - 1 6 6 - - - •3

August 3°> IO - - - - 2 7 - - IO

O ftober 31- IO 1 - - 1 6 4 - - - 11

December - 1 - - - 1 I

- - 27> 3 - - - - 2 1 - - - 3

87 5 * 1 4 43 36 - - 8 92

788. January 14, 5 - - - - 5 - - 5

- - 23> 3 - 1 2 - - - - 3

April 8 - 1 2 3 - - 2 8

June 24, i - - 1 - - - - 1

- - 25> 3 I burnt - 3 - 1 - - - - 4

September 3> 4 - - - - 2 - - 2 4

- ' 12, 1 - - - 1 i

25 1 3 3 5 5 5 - 5 26

December 27th, 1788, there remain 34 Convicts under sentence of death, of whom no report hath been made, on account of his Majesty’s indifposition.

Theft tables, together with Sir Stephen Theodore JanJfens, give the total number of executions for forty years pall.

I Shall

[ 259 ]

I shall now close this work with fuggefiing a plan winch I think would, if adopted, be attended with public utility.

Since the office of a Gaoler or Keeper of a Prison is very important, and, when discharged with fidelity and humanity, deserves great encouragement \ and as the late Ad prohibits women from being keepers; I could wish that there should be a small provision made by an annuity for the widow or children of every faithful and attentive gaoler who dies in that office; not out of the succeeding gaoler’s salary, but clear and independent thereof. I have known some valuable keepers, and their wives, die of the gaol-fever; and is it not a dilireffing consideration that such persons, though they have properly attended to their duty, should leave families unprovided for ? Who would not regret that such men as George Smithy late keeper of To thill-fields bridewell,* should be exposed to the unhappiness of leaving a wife, or children, or both, without any comfortable provision for their support f This object appears the more delirable, as it may now be hoped that the abolition of the tap, and the allowance of salaries in lieu of the profits which were derived from the sale of liquors, will be the means of engaging people of more credit, and who will pay greater attention to their duty, to undertake the office of gaolers or keepers of prisons. Such persons I have observed to be placed in foreign prisons; and among them, some of their wives take a very active part, looking frequently in upon the prisoners of their own sex, and paying a kind attention to them.

Should the plan take place, during my life, of efiabliffiing a permanent charity, under some such title as that at Philadelphia, viz. A society for alleviating the miseries of public prisons, and annuities be engrafted thereupon for the abovementioned purpose, I would most readily Hand at the bottom of a page as a fobferiber of £500; or if such a society shall be constituted within three years after my death, this sum shall be paid out of my estate.

* Mr. George Smith, *who died in 1786, <was keeper of Tothill-fields bride-well at my first: visit in April 1774; and my many subsequent visit s fully convinced me of his integrity and humanity. He vjas a striking example of a constant, unabated zeal in the dficharge of the important trufl reposed in him.

h 1 2

INDEX.

I N D ' E X.

A.

ACK1V0RTH School, 197 rules of, 122 Acquitted Prisoners, immediately discharged, 97 Aikin, Dr. quoted on the use ofspirituous liquors, 81 questions proposed by him upon the plague, 32

Ainslie, Sir Robert, acknowledgments to, 7 Aix la Chapelh, 72 Ale-houses, bad effects of, 173 Alnwick cattle, the remains of an ancient prison, 199 Ambassadors, English, their neglect with respect to religious service, 63 Amferdam, ttadthouse prison, 72 rasp-house, 73

new work-house, 73 Anglesey, 213 Animal Magnetism used, 52 Antrim, 98

Arbuthnot, Dr. quoted, 90 Arcades, prison built on, 52 Armagh, 99

Arrett for debt at Atnjierdam; summons lirtt, 72 Assize of bread at Vienna, 71 Aston gaol, 15 9 Athlone Ranelagh school, 114 Avignon prison, 53 Aylesbury, county gaol at, 14s bridewell, 149

'b>> 75

11.

Banlury town gaol, 171

Bar bolts common in Ireland improper, 87

Barbolani Federico, his friendliness, 7 Barking, 144 Bath gaol, 190

infirmary, 190 Baths in gaols proper, 142

seldom used, 189 Bailey prison, 197 Beaumaris county gaol, 213 town gaol, 213 Beckles bridewell, 156 Bedfordshire, 150 Bedford county gaol, 150

county bridewell, 150 Beds, use of airing them, 136

double with partitions, improper in hospitals, 73 wooden, improper, 7 3 Bell, peculiar use of in the lazaretto at Marseilles, 4 Berkshire, 165 Berwick gaol, 199 Beverley bridewell, 191 town gaol, 192 hall-garth, 192 Bill, draught of, for excluding fermented and spirituous liquors from gaols, 235 Birmingham town gaol, 159 poor-house, 159 court prison for debtors, 159 Bifop's Cafle town gaol, 175

Blackburn, Mr. prisons built on his plan, 155,170,.

171, 177, 178, 186, 205, 206 Blane, Dr. quoted, 98 Bodmin county gaol, 188 Borough compter, 130 Bread, how it should be served, 125

Breconshire.

INDEX.

Breconshire, 214 Charter schools in Ireland, matters pay 15/. a year for

Brecon county gaol, 214 the work of each child, 102

town gaol, 215 allowance increased, 104

Brick, white better than (tone for floors of lazaretto the rent being advanced gives dif-

warehouses, 6 content, 107

Bridewell, 127 allowance for soap too small, 108

Bridgewater, I90 hints for their improvement, 118

Brifol city gaol, 189 remarks on, 118

bridewell, 190 penurioufnefs of the society prevents

infirmary, 190 subscriptions. 119

Lawford’s-gate bridewell 178 Charter School at Ardbraccan, 111

Buckinghamshire, 148 Arklow, 112

Buckingham town gaol, 149 Ballinrobe, 108

Bury St. Edmundys gaol, 156 Bally kelly, 106

county bridewell, 156 Caffell, 110

Butchery at Vienna out of the city, 71 Cafilebar, 108

Castle Carbery, 112

C. Castle Dermot, 110

Castle IJlaitd, 110

Cadi, his mode of punishing, 62 Castle Martyr, 114

Cambridgeshire, 151 Charleville, I05

Cambridge county gaol, 131 Clonmell, 104

bridewell, 151 Clontarf, 101

town gaol, 151 Dundalk, 108

bridewell, 151 D unmanway, “3

Cardiff county gaol, 215 Barra, 111

town gaol, 215 Frankfort, 105

Carding!on work-house commended, 130 Galway, 109

Car life county gaol, 199 Innifcara, 104

town gaol, 200 Innijhannon, J13

Carlow, 86 Kilfinane, 110

Carmarthenshire, 214 Kilkenny, 102

Carmarthen castle, 214 Killoteran, 102

Carnarvonshire, 213 Longford, 106

Carnarvon county gaol, 213 Loughrea, 109

Carrick, 92 Maynooih, 112

Carrickfergus, 98 Newmarket, 109

Cashell county hospital, 88 Newport, I05

Castel Novo, 10, 22 New Ross, 113

Cafilebar, 93 Ray, 107

Catechising in work-houses recommended, 193 Santry, 101

Cats, asylum for, 64 Shannon Grove, 109

Cavan, 93 Sligo, 111

Cement of stone made in a house of correction, 71 Stradbally, 110

for mortar made in ditto, 192, 196 Strangford, jo8

Charter school nurseries, 113 Trim. 112

Charter schools in Ireland, 101 Charity, no persons fuftered to give to prisoners.

demand parliamentary in- vagrants or beggars at Vienna, 67

quiry, 101 Chelmsford county gaol, 143

Chelmsford

i HI

Home, 142

Norfolk, 148

Midland, .53

Oxford, 165

Western, .78

Northern, i9i

Chester, 207

Carmarthen, 2I3

North Wales, 21}

South Wales, 214

Circular stone basin by a well for walhing, 5 2 Clare county, 93, 109

Cleanliness, necessary for poor-houses, houses of cor-

Cork city gaol,

bridewell, house of industry, two infirmaries, foundling hospital, 90 Cornwall, 18 Correction, house of, at Florence, 57

at F r an cfort, 71 at Vienna, 67 Cotton imported from Turkey chiefly in foreign bottoms, 27 Coventry city gaol, 159 bridewell, 159 Convbridge, 215

Criminals sent from Vienna to Hungary, 67 Cumberland, 199

Dart ford, 145

Deaf and dumb, institution for, 70 Debtors, in Turkey have prisons separate from felons, 62

subsistence of in Turkey, 63 law of arresting in Holland, 7 2 law severe again!! them in Lancashire, 202 Society for relief and discharge of at Cork and Limerick, 89

rection and hospitals, 71 Defects of prisons at Edinburgh, 76

in house of industry, at Dublin, So DeNBI GHSHl RE; , 211

passages from Ingen-houfz relative to, 100 Derbyshire, 160

influence of, extensive, 102 Derby county gaol. , 160

Clerkemnell bridewell, 128 town gaol. 161

Clonmell county gaol, 88 00 w ? Q

Cloth-hall, Halifax, 197 DEVONSH I RE, .85

Cold bathing, good effects of, 104, 155 Colfion hospital at Bristol, 190 Conde, F. a galley-slave, 55 Confrairie de la Misericorde, 53, 5 + Constantinople, 63

French hospital at Gala/a, 64 at Pera, 64 Greeks, hospital at Galata, 64 Turkish hospitals, 64

Contractors for transports, receipts of, 220 Convent at Malta for travellers, 61 Convicts for transportation, hard usage of, 75,147,219 Corfu, 1 o

Cork county gaol, S9

Diet in charity schools, observations on, 133 Dietary for the hulks, 217

sick, 182, 192 of Charter-schools, 103 of prisoners of war, 229 for Leeds work-house, 192 proposed for prisoners, 238 Donegal, 97, 107

Dorchester county gaol. .85

town. >85

Dorsetshire, 185

Down, 98, 108

Damn Patrick, 98

Dublin county gaol. 83

Dublin

INDEX.

Dublin prisons, Newgate, 79

bridewell, 79

police prison, 79 four-court marshalsea, 80 marshalsea, 80 Thomas-court and Donore, 8i Dublin Hospitals, Mercer's, 81

Stephens's, 81

Simpson's for the blind and gouty, 8 a

St. Patrick's for lunatics, 82

Lying-in, 82

Foundling, 82

Blue-coat, 83

For Incurables, 83

Military, 83

Marine, 83

House of Industry, 80

Dunbar prison, 78 Dundalk county gaol, 97 Dungeon, close and crowded, 158, 173 Dungeons, horrid, 66, 150

in an old castle near NaJJau, 72 Durham, 198 Durham county gaol, 198

bridewell, 198

E.

Edinburgh, 75

tolbooth, 76 royal infirmary, 77 orphan hospital, 77 work-house, 77 hospital for old people, 77 Ely gaol, 152

bridewell, 15 2 Emperor has founded or improved many noble institutions at Vienna, 69 Employment for those at Vienna who want work, 71 benefits of to prisoners, 191 Ennis county gaol, 93 Enniskillen county gaol, 95 Erasm us Smith, his schools, 109, no Essex, 143

Excefiive drinking in prisons at Dublin, 79, 80 Executions, solemnity of, 73

concealed from the public at Aix-la~ Chapelle, 72 good mode of at Chelmsford, 143

Executions, number of at Amjhrdam, 73

none at XJtrecht for twenty-four years, 74 lift of in Scotland, 248 in England, 254 Eyam, relation of the plague at, 24 Exeter, 185

sheriffs ward, 186 bridewell, 187 city and county gaol, 187 work-house, 187

F.

Fees from debtors, greater than the debts, 76, 171, 210, 212 Fermanagh, 95 Fires, regulations for, 74 Fleet prison, 125 Flintshire, 210 Flint gaol, inscription on, 211 Florence, 5 7 Folkingham, 163

Foot, foreign compared with English Sec. 5 Fordyce, Dr. quoted, 90

Fothergill, Dr. his last interview with Judge Blacksto^e, 222 his patronage of Ackvsorth school, 197 Foul bills, flips with, from the Levant, stop for trade, 22

such trade should be strictly prohibited, 22 dreadful consequence of such trade, 22 Foundling Hospitals, remarks on, 82

admiftlon to them should be easy, 82 France, 52

Francfort house of correction, 71 asylum for lunatics, 71 Fraud, in supplying Mullingar gaol detected, 94 Free schools in every parish in Ireland, as in Scotland* would be useful, 119 Fumigation, at Plymouth, 117

Q.

Galleys at Toulon, 54 at Venice, 65 Galway, 93, 109 Galnvay city and county gaol, 93 county hospital, 93 Gaols, too splendid, 7 8

Gaols;

INDEX.

Gaols, new in Ireland, remark on their pompous Hospitals and Infirmaries ;, Bri

fronts, 78 Bath, 190

magistrates should have a room in them, 79 Chester, 208

Gaol distemper in the hulks at Portsmouth, 218 Gloucester, 178

fever, remarks on, 231 Hereford, 176

Gaolers, their artifice to prevent their gaols being heeds, 192

inspeCied, 232 Leicester, 160

Garnish, still continued, 142 London, *3*

Genoa, 5, 57 Newcastle, 198

Germany, 65 Northampton, i65

Glamorganshire, 215 Norwich, 154

Glasgow, 75 Nottingham, 162

Glasgow Tolbooth, 75 Oxford, 171

house of correction, 7 5 Salisbury, ■83

Gloucestershire, 177 Shrewsbury, ■75

Gloucester county gaol, 177 Stafford, J74

city gaol, 17S Winchester, 179

county bridewell, LawfordVgate, 178 Worcester, >73

Gordon, T. in Tolbooth, Edinburgh, five years and York, 198

ten months, 76 Hospitals, Foreign:

Go/port bridewell, 179 Avignon, S4

Guildford, 148 C onfantinople. 64

Florence, 57

H. Francfort, 71

Genoa, 57

Haddington, 78 Leghorn, 57

Halifax, 197 Lyons, 5 2

Hampshire, 178 Malta, 58

Harwich, 144 Marseilles, 54

Haverfordwef county gaol, 213 Naples, 58

town gaol, 213 Pisa, 57

Health-Office, Venice, 1 2 Rome, 58

Heberden, Dr. quoted, 219 Salon ica, 64

Herefordshire, 176 Savona, 56

Hereford county gaol, 276 Scio, 65

bridewell, 276 Smyrna, 62

infirmary, 276 Youlon, 56

city gaol and bridewell , 276 Brief e. 66

Hertfordshire, 142 Vienna, 68

Hertford county gaol, 142 Zante, 62

bridewell, 142 Hospitals and Infirmaries, Ir:

Hitchin, 142 Armagh, 99

Hodges, Dr. quoted, 31, 210 Carlow, 86

Holland, 72 Caffcl, 88

Horsham, 146 Caflcbar, 93

Hospitals, Royal: Cavan, 95

Edinburgh, 77 Cork, 90

Hafar, 180 Downpatrick, 98

Plymouth, 187 Dublin, 8i

Hospitals

INDEX.

Hospitals and Infirmaries, Irish:

Dundalk98 Ennis, 94.

Ennijkilkn, 96

Galway, 93

Kildare, 86

Kilkenny, 85

Lifford, 97

Limerick, 91

Li/burn, 98

Londonderry, 97

Longford, 95

Maryborough, 86

Monaghan, 99

Mullingar, 94

Nov an, 100

Omagh, 96

Roscommon, 92

Sligo, 8 8

\Tralee, 91

Tull amor e, 87

Waterford, 8 8

Wexford, 85

Wicklow, 84

Wilson* s, 94

Hospitals in London:

Bartholomew’s, 132 Bethlem, 139

British lying-in, 137 Christ’s, 132

Guy’s, 135

Lock, 138

London, 131

London lying-in, 137 Middlesex, 133 St. George’s, 136 St. Luke’s, 139 St. Thomas’s, 134 Westminster, 136

Hospitals, set days for visiters, 180

each hospital in Ireland has ^100 a year from the king’s letter, 84 votes purchased to secure the election of surgeons, 97 general remarks on, 141 at Genoa, benefadors distinguished, 57 at Florence, its plan shews the form of many Roman-Catholic hospitals, 57 the Jews’ at Salonica, 64

House of industry at Cork, 89

Dublin, 80 Limerick, 91 Waterford, 88 Hulks on Thames, 216 at Plymouth, 216 Goftort, 217 Langfton harbour, 217 Huntingdonshire, 150 Huntingdon county gaol, 150 bridewell, 151 Husband, constancy of one to a wife in prison, 186

I.

Jebb, Dr. on enclosing prisons, 65

quell ions proposed by him upon the plague, 32

Infection, great care to dellroy it at Malta, 9

a body dead of the plague, when cold, does not infect the air, 25 Ingenhouze, Dr. quoted, 100 Insolvent acts, effects of, 81, 186, 189, 202 Inspector general to prisons in Ireland, 78 to hulks necessary, 219 Johnson, Dr. his sermon quoted, 120 Johnstone, Dr. a martyr to the gaol-fever, 172 Ipswich county gaol, 15 5

bridewell, 155 Ireland, 78

Irish prisons, 78

hospitals, 81

charter schools, 101

gaols in general have no infirmaries nor baths, 99 Iron glove, 208

Islington, proper situation for penitentiary houses, 223 Italy, 56

Ivelchester county gaol, 189

K.

Keeper’s qualifications, 89 Kendal, 201 Kent, 145

M m

Kerry.

INDEX,

Kerry county, 91, no Kildare county, 86,110,112 Kilfinane charter school, 11 o Kilkenny county, 85, 102 IGlmainham county gaol, 83 King's Bench prison, 130 King15 evidence, nothing similar in Holland, 73 King’s County, 87, 105 Kingsborough, Lady, her school, no Kingston upon Hull gaol, 193

bridewell, 196 poor-house, 193 Kingston upon Thames bridewell, 147 town gaol, 148

Kinfale, 90

Kipp is. Dr. his Life of Cook quoted, 200 Knights of Malta institution of, 58

L.

Lancashire, 201 Lancaster c a ill e, 201

town gaol, 206 Launcefion county gaol, 188 Lazaretto at Cafiel Novo, 10

Corfu, 10

Genoa, 5

Leghorn, 7

Malta, 8

Marseilles, 3

Mejfina, s

Naples, 8

Spezia, 7

Triefie. 23

Venue, 10

Xante, 9

Lazaretto in England, importance of,:

proposed regulations and pi;

Lazarettos at Leghorn, belt in Europe,

at Triefie clean, a contrast. to those at Venice, 33

Lazaretto would be of great service to the Turkey trade, 26

would prevent the danger of introducing the plague, 29 letter from m«rchants in Smyrna on the subject, 26

Lazarettos, description of a plan for, 23 Leeds town gaol, 192 infirmary, 192 work-house, 192 Leghorn, 7, 57 Leghorn prison and hospital, 57 Leicestershire, 160 Leicefltr county gaol, 160

bridewell, 160 town gaol, 160

county infirmary, 160 Leinster nursery, 116 Leitrim county gaol, 92 Lepers, hospital for, 65 Letter to Dr. Fothergill, 223 privy council, 226 Letters, how received at lazarettos, 3, 8 how sent from lazarettos, 15 Lichfield city gaol, 174 Lifiord county gaol, 96

Lime-whiting, effects of in purifying the air, 11,

118

Limerick county, 91, 109, 110 Limerick county and city gaol, 91 house of industry, 91

county hospital, 91

Lincolnshire, 163

Lincoln county gaol, 163

city gaol, 163

bridewell, 163

fpianing school, 163

Lind, Dr. quoted, 104, 180 Liquors not to be admitted in prisons, 80 Lijburn county hospital, 98 Liverpool gaol, 206 bridewell, 206 Locks that cannot be picked, 201 London, 124

Londonderry county, 97, 106 Londonderry county and city gaol, 97 hospital, 97 Longford county, 93, 106 Lefi-ivithiel, 188

Loughborough, Lord, interceded for the pardon of convitts, 199, 202 Lougbrea, 93 Louth county, 97, 108 Ludlow town gaol, 175 bridewell, 175

Lunatics,

I N D

Lunatics, hospitala for, 64, 68, 71, 82, 139 Lying-in women, prote&ion of, 73

rooms for at Vienna, 68 Lyons, prison of St. Joseph, 52

for vagabonds and beggars, 52 general hospital, 52 Hotel-Dieu, 53

M.

Macbride, Dr. quoted, 133

Macclesfield, 209

Macfarlane, Dr. quoted, 202 Maidstone county gaol, 145

bridewell, 145 Malta lazaretto, 8

convent for travellers, 61

foundling hospital, 61

hospital, 5 8

hospital for women, 60

number of patients, and how they are served, 59

prison, 58

Haves, 58

the hall at the great hospital a security for criminals, 59

Manchester, 206 Marine school at Amsterdam, 71 Dublin, 83

Marlborough, 184 Marseilles lazaretto, 3 prison, 54 Marfkalfea, 130 Maryborough, 86

Matron, her importance, 155, 176 Mayo county, 93, 108 Meath county, 99, in Meath hospital, 100

Mejfina, in 1743 the terrible plague there, 43 Meteorological Table fox Vienna, 70 Middlewich, 208

Milbourne, Mrs. imprisoned by her husband at

Carlifie, 200 Molita, isle of, 22

Mompesson, Rev. Mr. commemorated, 24 Monaghan county gaol, 99 Monmouthshire, 177

E X.

Monmouth county gaol, 177 town gaol, lyj Montague, Mr. performed quarantine at Zante, 10 Montgomeryshire, 212 Montgomery county gaol, 212

bridewell, 212 poor-house, 212

Morpeth county gaol, 199 bridewell, 199 Mortality in the hulks, 218 Mullingar county gaol, 94 Munster uurfery, 117

N.

Naas county gaol, 86 Nantwich, 209

work-house, 209 Naples, 8, 58 Nassau castle, 72 Navan county infirmary, 100 Newcastle town and county gaol, 198 bridevveE, 198 Infirmary, 198

Newgate, 124 New Ludgate, 126

Newport, Essex, 144 Newport Pagnel, 149 New prison Clerkenwell, 127 New county gaols in Ireland:

Armagh, 99

Cavan, 93

Cafilebar, 93

Clonmel I, begun, 88

Kilmainham, begun, 83

Lifford, proposed, 97

Limerick, proposed, 91

Londonderry, proposed, 97 Longford, proposed, 95 Maryborough, proposed, 86

Mullingar, begun, 94

Naas, 86

Omagh, proposed, 96

P of common, begun, 92

Waterford, 87

Wicklow, proposed, 84

Mm2

New

I N

D EX.

New prisons in England: Northampton county gaol, 164

Aylesbury county bridewell, 149 town gaol, 164

Beaumaris town gaol, 213 Northumberland, 198

Bedford county gaol, proposed. ■5° Norwich castle, 152

Borough Compter, 130 hospital, 154

Bury county bridewell, 156 city gaol, 153

Car life, proposed, 199 bridewell, 133

Chef erf eld, 161 poor-houses, 154

Chichester city gaol, 146 Nottinghamshire, 161

Clerkenwell bridewell, begun, 12S Nottingham county gaol, 161

Compter, begun, 126 town gaol, 162

Derby town gaol, 161 bridewell, 162

Devizes, 183 county infirmary, 162

Dorchefer county gaol, 185 Nurseries, provincial, Ireland, 115

Exeter county gaol, proposed, 1 [36 Nurseries uiIreland at

Flint county gaol, zio Milt own, 113

Gloucester county gaol Monivea, 117

and bridewell, 177 Monfereven, 116

city gaol, 178 Shannon grove, 117

Huntingdon county bridewell, ‘5‘

Ipswich county gaol, begun. >55

Ivelchefer county gaol. 189 O.

Kendal, 201

Kings on upon Hull gaol. >93

Lanxford's-gate, Bristol, 178 Oakham county gaol, 163

Lincoln castle. 163 Oath administered to Jews, in Holland, 74

Liverpool, begun. 206 solemnity of, 74

Manchester, begun. 206 Observations on quarantine and lazarettos, 23

Marlborough bridewell. I84 Odiam, 179

Monmouth county gaol, begun. 177 Omagh county gaol, 96

Northallerton county bridewell. l9l Oandle, 164

Oxford county gaol & bridewell, 170 Oxfords h 1 re, 170

Oxford city gaol. 171 Oxford county gaol and bridewell, 170

Pet worth bridewell. 14 6 excellent charity there, 170

Prefon bridewell, begun. 205 lift of prisoners with earnings and expense, 170

Reading county bridewell. 169 city gaol and bridewell, 171

Ruthin bridewell. 212

Sherborn county bridewell. .85

Shrewfiury, >74 P.

Southampton, 1 So

Stafford, proposed. >73

Warwick county bridewell. >59 Paijky, 75

Winckcfer county bridewell. >79 Paitoni, Dr. abstract of his paper respecting the

Worcefcr county bridewell. >72 Plague, 43

Wymondham bridewell. >52 Parish work-lhops, 210

Nice, 56 Parloirs in the lazaretto at Marseilles, 4

Norfolk, 152 Paul, Sir George O. his afiiduity, 177

North abler t on, 191 Peace makers in Holland, 73

Northamptonshire, 164 Pembrokeshire, 213 Penitentiary

I N D

E X.

Penitentiary Houses, remarks on, 220

heads of regulations for, 227 Judge Blackstone’s zeal to promote their in ftitution, 222 PERCiVAL, Dr. quoted, 65, 197 Peterborough gaol, 165 bridewell, 165 Petersburg house of correction, 230 Petty offenders, no proper prisons for them in Ireland, 79

Petworth bridewell, 146 Philipfovon county gaol, 87

Physicians in the last century paid great regard to air and water in pest-houses and lazarettos, 12 Pirate who seized the ftiip called the Grand Dutchess, account of him, 61 Pi/a hospital, observations on, 57 Plague, abstract of a curative and preservative plan for, 43

answers to questions concerning, 32 causes of its spread, 25

exhalation from bodies dead of, not infectious, 2$

imported by trading during a voyage, 22 mode of preservation from, 41, 44, 62 observations on, 42 papers relative to, 32 relation of at Spalato, 45 Plymouth town gaol, 187 Pontefrafl, 197

Poor Greeks and Jews in Turkey most subject to infection, and why, 25

Poor-houses at Frankfort, 71

Self aft, 99

Berwick, 199

Birmingham, 15 9

Carmarthen, 214

Exeter, 187

Hull, 193

Kendal, 201

Leeds, 192

Liverpool, 20 7

Londonderryj 97

Ludlow, 175

Malta, 61

Marlborough, 184

Nantwich, 209

Shrewsbury, 175

Vienna, 69

Poor-houses at Yarmouth, 155

Norwich, children spinning

, as at Dunbar, 154

Port man castle, 56 Portsnouth, 180 Poultry Compter, 126 Prefeign county gaol, 214 Preston, 203

Price of meat and assize of bread fixed, at Vienna, 71 Price, Dr. quoted, 124 Prisons, at Edinburgh, defeats of, 76 Prisoner dying of hunger and cold, 184 y

instructing the young convicts, 207 Prisoners, English, confined in dungeons at Aston gaol, 139 Bedford county gaol, 150 Brifol Newgate, 189 Chefcr castle, 207

city gaol, 208 Coventry city gaol, 159 Durham county bridewell, 198 Hertford county bridewell, 142 Leicester county gaol, 160 Lincoln castle, 163

city gaol, 163 Liverpool gaol, 206

Nantwich town gaol, 209 Nottingham county gaol, 161

Southwell county bridewell, 162 Shrewsbury county gaol, 174

bridewell, 175 Stafford county gaol, 173 The ford town gaol, 154

Warwick county gaol, 158 Worcester castle, 172

York city gaol, 191

Prisoners detained for fees till the expense of bread allowance exceeds the amount, 95 generally tried out of irons in Ireland, 98 should not be discharged at night, 129 earnings and expense of at Oxford, 17a number of in Ireland, 242

in England, 243 proper mode of management, 222 Protestants, French, in galleys, 55 Protestants in France, the last sent to the galleys for his religion, 55

the galleys not obliged to attend at mass, 5 5

Protestant,

INDEX.

Protestant* only one in the French galleys, 55

offered himself for confinement instead of his father, 55 Putrid fever in a work-house, 184

Quakers, character of, 197

school, rules of, 122 Quarantine, observations on, 23 rules of, 20

length of at Marseilles, 4

two kinds of, at Malta, 8

performed at Venice, 10

apartments very offensive, 11 Queen’s County, 86, no

R.

Radnorshire, 214 Ranelagh schools, Ireland, 114 Reading county gaol, 165 bridewell, 169 town gaol, 170 Regulations enjoined at the time of the plague in Spalato, 48 for prisoners of war, fee tables Reports of the local committee in Ireland respecting the charter schools, 101, 102, See.

Resolutions of the society supporting the charter schools, 102 See.

Richie, consul at Venice, his kindness, 12 Robinson, judge, fined a gaoler for not taking off irons, 98 Rome, New prison, 58

hospital of St. Michade, 58 school for young women, 5 8 Roscommon, 92, 115

Rowland, S. Esq. mayor of Cork, abolished annual dinners, and substituted a charitable institution,

90

Rules for conduCt of gaolers wanted, 174 fever wards, 209 Aylesbury county gaol, 148 Bury county bridewell, 156

Rules for Hull gaol, 194

Lancaster county gaol, 202 Russia, gaol-fever not known there, 230 Ruthin county gaol, 211 bridewell, 212 Rutlandshire, 163

S.

Salaries to gaolers proper, 76

keepers and servants in prisons more proper than perquisites, 127, iz8, 129, 183 Salisbury county gaol, 183 city gaol, 184 Salonica, 64

SanCtuary, abuse of, 60

Savona hospital, 56

Savoy prison, 128

Scald head, observaiion on, 113

Scale of feet in different countries, 5

Schools in Scotland, 120

Charter, good buildings, 109 Schotte, Dr. quoted, 42 Scio hospital for lepers, 65 ScOTI, A N D, 75

Sea-bathing practised at a charity school, 155 Separations by partitions necessary in large houses of correction or industry, 69 Sheffield prisons, 196 Shcpton-Mallet county bridewell, 189 Sherhorn county bridewell, 185 Sheriffs, under, paid for their appointments, 96 Shrevusbury county gaol, 174 bridewell, 175 town gaol, 175 Shropshire, 174

Slaves at Malta, pirated from the coasts, 58 Sligo county, 92, 111 Smith, George, character of, 259 Smyrna, prison for criminals, 62 for debtors, 62

Dutch hospital. 62

English, 62

French, 63

Greeks, 63

Jtnvs, 63

Venetian, 63

Soap,

X N

E X.

D

Soap, use, and allowance of, 98

necessary article in schools, 108 Solitary cells, proper use of, 192

confinement, observations on, 169 Somersetshire, 189 Southampton, 180 Southwark, prisons in, 130, 147 Spalato, plague at in 1784, 45 Sptxia lazaretto, 7 Spinning School at Lincoln, 163 Spirituous liquors, bad effects of, 8i Spirituous and fermented liquors, advantages of prohibiting, 146, 234 Staffordshire, 173

Stafford county gaol, 173

bridewell, 174 infirmary, 174 Staircase, remarkably easy one, 61 St. Albans prisons, 143 St. Briavelt’s gaol, 178 S t. C at her Lie’s gaol, 128 St. George’s fields bridewell, 147 Stoll, Dr. censure of his opinion that the plague is not contagious, 42 Suffolk, 155

Sunday school at Londonderry, 97 Surrey, 147 Sussex, 146 Swanfey, 215

T.

Tables. Regulations for plafond's of war in England, N°. &c. 239

1. and in France, 240

1 r. number of prisoners in Ireland, 242 in. in England, 243

iv. convicts for transportation, 246

v. number of prisoners executed in Scotland

from 1768 to 1782, 248

vi. ditto to 1787, 249

vii. clerks of assize, their fees, 250

v 111. transports from Newgate for three years, 251

ix. of criminals on the Norfolk Circuit, 252

x. Midland Circuit, 253

xi. abfiraft of Sir S. T. Janssen's, 254

Tables. Convicts executed in London and Middlesex, xn. from 1771 to 1783, 256

xiii. ditto from 1783 to 1788, 257

Tap, dill continued, 125, 130, 154, 197 Taps, benefits fromabolishing, 155, 160,205, 212,234 fatal effects of to gaolers, 158, 197, 199, 201 Taunt on county bridewell, 189 Tea, indulgence of pleaded for, 205, 210 ’Theford town gaol, 154 Thirsk, 191 Tholouse, 52

Tipperary county, 88, 104, 105 Tobacco and {huff, bad effects of, 57, 209 Torture occasioning bloody sweat, 53 Tothill-felds bridewell, 129 Toulon galleys, 54

arsenal hospital, 56 marine hospital, 56 Tower, 124

Tower-hamlets gaol, 128 Tralee county gaol, 91 hospital, 91 Transports, hardships of, 75, 76, 216, Transportation, hardships attending, 219 Trial, rooms for in the new prison at Vienna, 66 Tnejle, lazarettos, 23 prison, 65

galley-slaves (so called) 65 hospital, 66 Trim county gaol, 99 Tullamore county infirmary, 87 Tunijtan corsair, Ikjrmifh with, 22 Turkey, 61

account of goods exported to, from London, 30 Tuscany, Grand Duke of, father of his country, 7 Tyrone county gaol, 96

U.

Under sheriffs, Irish impositions of, 96 XJJk county bridewell, 177 XJtrecht spin-house, 74

V.

Vagrants, house for at Vienna, 67 regular journals kept, 67

Venereal

i

1

I

1 (,

(r

INDEX.

Venereal patients, objections again!!: answered, 138 Venetian regulations neglected, 22 Venice, 10, 65 Venice lazarettos, 10, 11, prison, 65 galleys, 65 Vienna great prison, 66 new prison, 66 great cafern, 66 little cafern, 67 house of correction, 67 general hospital, 68 rooms for lying-in women, 68 tower for lunatics, 68 military hospital, 68 convent of lei freres de charite, 69 St. Elizabeth, 69 house for the poor, 69 foundling hospital, 69 orphan hospital, 70 hospital for deaf and dumb, 70 house for employment, 71

Vifiters not admitted on Sundays, 171

should have set days for, at hospitals, 81 prisons, 237

W.

Wakcfeld, 191

Wardfmen, allowance taken off, 125 Warrington, 207 Warwickshire, 158 Warwick county gaol, 158

bridewell, 159 Waffling rooms, prejudice against, 53 Water brought into a prison through devotion, 63 clofcts well contrived, 135 Waterford county, 87, 102 Waterford hospitals, 88

Weights and bread examined, and delinquents pu-niffied, 62 Westmeath county, 94, in Westminster prison, 129 Westmorland, 201 Wexford county, 85, 113 Whitechapel prison, 128

White-waffiing prisons, excuse for neglect of, 11 observations on, 118

Wicklow county, 84, 112 Wife sent to gaol by her husband, 200 Willoughby, C. Esq. his afiiduity, 170 Wilson’s hospital, 94 Wiltshire, 183 Win chefer county gaol, 17 8

bridewell, 179 city prisons, 179

Window faffies well contrived, 135 tax, its bad effeCls, 215 Windsor cafde, 170

town gaol, 170 Wood-freet compter, 126 Worcestershire, 172

T

Werccfler county gaol, 172

bridewell, 172 city gaol, 17 2

county infirmary, 173 Work, ornamental, Jess proper for the poor, 75

provided for those who are out of employment, 71 Work-house at Amsterdam, 73 Work-house at Edinburgh, 77 Work-houses, fee poor-house:

Wymondham, I $ 2

Y.

Yarmouth town gaol, 154

bridewell, 155

poor-house, 155

Yorke, Mrs. good effects of her afiiduity, 163

---

Yorkshire, 191

York castle, 191

city gaol, 191

bridewell, 192

St. Peter's gaol, 192

county hospital, 198

Young, Rev. Mr. commended, 97

Z.

Zante, lazaretto, 9

prison, 61

hospital, 62

[Numerous illustrations.]

[Note: copy used for this OCR has Sir S.T. Janssen’s Table inserted at this point. Badly scanned, so removed.]

DIRECTIONS to the BOOK-BINDER.

THE Plates ARE TO BE INSERTED AS FOLLOWS:

Page

Plate N° 1. Plan of the Lazaretto at Marseilles - to face 3.

2. Sea View of the Lazaretto at Genoa - to face 6.

3. View and Plan of the Lazaretto at Genoa - End of the Book.

4, 5. Views of the Lazaretto at Spezia - at the End.

6. Plan of the Lazaretto at Spezia - at the End.

7. Plan of the Lazaretto of San Leopoldo at Leghorn - at the End.

8. Plan of the Lazaretto of San Rocco at Leghorn - at the End.

9. Health-Office at Naples - to face 8.

10, 11. Plan of the Lazaretto at Messina - at the End.

12. Plan of the old Lazaretto at Venice - to face 13.

13. Plan of the new Lazaretto at Trieste - at the End.

14. Sketch of a Plan for a Lazaretto - to face 23.

15. View of Portman Castle - to face 56.

16. Plan of the Prison at ditto - to face 56.

17. Plan of Part of the Hospital at Florence - to face 58.

18. Plan of the Greek Hospital at Smyrna - to face 63.

19. Plan of Haslar Hospital - to face 180.

20. Plan for a Penitentiary House - to face 229.

21. Petersburg House of Correction - to face 230.

22. View of a proposed Lazaretto - at the End.

Sir S.T. Janssen’s Table - at the End.

N.B. I would just hint to the book-binder, that as this work is printed with a full page, in order to be uniform with my last publication, it may be proper to cut off as little as possible at the top and bottom of the leaves.

