APPENDIX

TO THE

STATE of the PRISONS

IN

ENGLAND and WALES &c.

APPENDIX

TO THE

STATE of the PRISONS

IN

ENGLAND and WALES,

&C.

CONTAINING A FARTHER ACCOUNT OF

FOREIGN PRISONS and HOSPITALS,

WITH ADDITIONAL REMARKS ON THE

PRISONS OF THIS COUNTRY.

By JOHN HOWARD, LL. D. F. R. S.

Parum eft coercere Improbos Poena, nift Probos efticias Difciplina.

WARRINGTON, PRINTED BY WILLIAM EYRES.

MDCCLXXXIV.

Digitized by CjOOQie

\

C O N T E N	T	s.
Foreign Prifons an Hofpitah		Page I.
Engli/h Prifoners of War in France	-	132.
Prif oners of War in England, &c.	-	J35*
Scotch Prifons	-	14.7.
Irijh Prifons - - -	-	r55*
Hulks on the 'Thames	-	163.
Englijh Prifons	-	168.
Heads of Regulations, &c.	-	273*
Tables -	-	276.



*

Digitized by v^ooQie

APPENDIX.

H E Houfe of Commons having taken under confideration the fl	regulation of prifons, I thought myfelf bound, by the promife

B	made in the conclufion of my fird publication, • to collect fuch

farther hints as I might be able to procure in' feveral foreign Territories there mentioned. I therefore vifited and fome other countries in 1778, 1781, and 1783, and lhall fubjoin thofe remarks which feemed moil worthy of attention.

In the Draught of a Bill “ to punifh by Imprifonment and Hard Labour, certain Offenders} and to edablifh proper Places for their Reception,”* the plan was formed on the Rafp and Spin-houfes in Holland. This made me more folicitous to gain the bed information, by a frefh infpedfion, and by converfation with intelligent men. In purfuance of this defign, I went to Holland in April 1778, and cheerfully entered on the intended bufinefs of my journey at

ROTTERDAM,

WHERE I revifited the Stadt-houfe prifon, in which were no debtors in Stadt-hovse. either of the three rooms. When there are any, they are alimented at one fixed fum, viz. fixteen divers.f There are feven rooms for criminals or dif-orderly perfons. One of them is called the condemned room, into which a

# This has fince pafled into an Aft, 19th George III. Cap. LXXIV.

f A guinea 252 d. is = 11 guilders 11 divers = 231 divers (for 20 divers is a guilder) therefore divers are to pence as ~1S = 4t: *•e> 11 divers is equal to a (hilling.

B	criminal

Digitized by ooQie



APPENDIX.

Rotterdam St adt-house.

Rasp-house.

criminal is put fourteen days before his final fentence; and immediately after the fentence, he is executed with a folemnity very ftriking to the common people. In three of the rooms, were three perfons confined for a limited time for fome fmall offences, and kept to bread and water. Their daily allowance was from four to five ftivers, and their pitcher was filled with water three times a day; but the other criminals had their pitcher filled once a day with beer, and their allowance was from nine to ten ftivers. There were cafes with thick ftraw mats, and two or three coverlets to each.—In 1781, I found here one debtor and four criminals.

In the Rafp-houfe, (or Spin-houfe as it is fometimes called) at one of my former vifits, there were thirty-eight men, and in 1781 twenty-eight men, and forty women. The men were chopping and rafping logwood, combing, fpinning and carding wool, and (a few) making fifhing-nets, and forting coffee-berries. The women were fpinning wool and flax, and carding hair, or winding at a great wheel, like thofe which at Derby are turned by water. They were clean, and appeared healthy and well. I obferved the cieling was very white : and one of the regents informed me, that the room was white-waftied regularly twice a year.

The men were more feparated than the women into rooms (about feventeen feet long, eleven feet broad, and ten high) each of which contained only four or five prifoners. Thefe rooms were very offenfive ; the perfons confined in them being taken out only once in the week. For preventing combinations, two of the men are removed every ten or fourteen days, to different companies. There were among them fome Jews, whofe dinner was not fork, as was that of the other prifoners, but mutton, which the fociety of Jews in the city fent them, with a flice of white bread, by permiflion of one of the five regents or infpeCtors.*

For the refractory, there are darkrooms, but not dungeons: in one of thefe, on Ihutting the door on myfelf, I found no dampnefs. My conductor obferved, that the floor was raifed to preferve it dry. Here they are allowed no bedding, and are kept to bread and water, which is given them at an aperture in the door. Their confinement is for fix, eight, ten, or fourteen days.

* As I was there at one o’clock, the time of the diilribution, I obferved that the bread was all cut in flices: this prevents thofe contefts or frauds which fometimes happen where prifoners mefs together, and the bread is given out in one loaf, as I faw on board the hulks in the Thames, where one loaf was given to fix perfons.

At

Digitized by

Google

HOLLAND.

3

At the whipping-pod (which is in the middle of the court, in full view Rotterdam of the male criminals) fome of our dextrous countrymen, in 1781, were RASP-H0USE-difciplined, for melting their pewter fpoons, and forming them into keys.

The pewter was hardened with a mixture procured from an apothecaiy, under the pretence of its being a remedy for the tooth-ach. But the fcheme was defeated by an Englijh Jew, who for this fervice obtained his liberty, though he had been committed for thirty years.

The regents have a room, in which they aflemble once a fortnight. Their ladies aflemble in another room, to give directions concerning the work, linen, provifions, &c. They alfo attend by rotation at dinner, and other times; and all their accounts are carried to the regents.

The keeper has a falary from the city, of four hundred florins or guilders per annum,* and alfo a houfe, victuals and drink, firing and candle, and one feventh part of the produce of all the labour of the prifoners; fo that it is his intereft to fee that the work be well performed : yet as the quantum is fixed by the regents, it is not in his power to be a cruel tafk-maiter. The manner of dieting the prifoners feemed to me worthy of being inferted at length in the note below, f

Being at Rotterdam on a Sunday, I was defirous of feeing whether there was fuch diflipation in their prifons, as there is in ours, on that day. The public '	.	fervice

# About />36.

f Regulation for the daily diet, at the Rafp-houfe at Rotterdam.

Sunday Dinner. Each man has a mefs of boiled grout, with butter or kitchen-fluff; a piece of cheefe or butter, with a quarter of a pound of rye bread.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or fuch as only work half-tafk, a mefs of grout, as above ; a piece of cheefe or butter, with one fixth of a pound of rye bread.

Ditto Supper. Each man a bowl of new milk boiled with barley or flour, with a piece of cheefe, and one fourth of a pound of rye bread.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or fuch as only do half-tafk, the bowl of fweet milk, as above, but no bread or cheefe.

Monday Breakfaft. Each man half a pound of rye bread with cheefe or butter. Each boy, woman, or half-tafked, one fourth of a pound of rye bread with butter or cheefe.

N. B. Breakfaft through the week, is the fame as above.

Monday Dinner. Each man half a pound of meat, or one fixth of a pound of pork without bone ; half a pound of rye bread, with a bowl of boiled carrots, cabbage or greens.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or half-tafked, one third of a pound of meat, or one eighth of a pound of pork without bone, three eighths of a pound of rye bread, with a bowl of boiled carrots, cabbage or greens.

B 2	Tuesday

Digitized by

Google

4

A P P E N D. I X.

Rotterdam

Rasp-house.

fervice at the Rafp-houfe began at half after one o’clock. The audience confided of about thirty or forty inhabitants of the town, Mr. Schumacher the prefiding regent, the head-keeper and his family, and three underkeepers, befides the prifoners. The number of women prifoners was about forty, who were feparated from the reft of the congregation by a wooden palifade, ancf feated on benches raifed one above another. They were all clean and neat; had nothing diflinguifhing in their drefs, but were without hats. While they ftood up during prayer, they held up their aprons to cover their faces. The men were neat, drefled in brown coats, had been fliaved, had clean fhirts (which were moft of them chequed), clean ftockings, and wore handkerchiefs about their necks. They alfo were feated on raifed benches, in a room out of the chapel, and feparated from it by an iron grating, from the top of the room to the bottom, fo wide that all the audience, except the female prifoners, had them full in view. The keeper’s feat adjoins to this grating, and two of his lervants, who are turnkeys, fat oblerving their behaviour.

The chaplain, after a fhort prayer, preached extempore; then, the men convicfls joined in Tinging, moil of them having books. When the chaplain had prayed again, he catechifed for about three quarters of an hour. It being the women's turn that Sunday, fix of them flood up, one after another, and

made

Tuesday Dinner. For all, boiled gray peafe, with one fourth of a pound of rye bread; the men have, befides, each a piece of cheefe.

Wednesday Dinner. Each man a bowl of peafe porridge, with three eighths of a pound of rye bread and a piece of cheefe.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or half-talked, a bowl of peafe porridge, one fourth of a pound of rye bread, with a piece of cheefe.

Thursday Dinner. Each man, one third of a pound of meat, or one eighth of a pound of pork without bone ; two dices of rye bread, weighing together half a pound, with a bowl of barley broth.

Ditto ditto. Boys, or men who only do half-tafk, one fourth of a pound of meat, or one twelfth of a pound of pork without bone ; two dices of rye bread, weighing together three eighths of a pound, with each a bowl of barley broth.

Ditto ditto. The women, no meat or pork ; each a bowl of barley broth, with three eighths

, of a pound of rye bread with butter or cheefe.

Friday Dinner. Each man a bowl of kidney-bean porridge; three eighths of a pound of rye bread with cheefe.

Ditto ditto. Each boy, woman, or half-tafked, the mefs of kidney-bean porridge ; one fourth of a pound of rye bread with cheefe.

Saturday

Digitized by

Google

HOLLAND.

5

made the refponfes, which the chaplain explained to them. After this he prayed, and the fervice concluded by Tinging the fifty-firft Pfalm. The decent behaviour and attention of the audience, evidently proved that the fervice, though of two hours and an half, was not tedious or difagreeable.

During the time of catechifing, the head-keeper and one of his fervants went out, to infpecl the empty wards, and to fearch whether any tools or inftruments were concealed. The keeper returned to his feat in an hour. At the end of the fervice, the women palled by the regents feat; * and when they were gone, he went into the court to fee the men go to their feveral wards, four or five together, j- that number only being let out at a time. After they were all locked up, he went to each window, and converfed with them. Many of them returned their thanks for the abridgment of their term of confinement, as this was juft: before the time for ele&ing new magiftrates. One or two, who had been at fea, intreated to go in any capacity to , as is fometimes permitted. lie afterwards went to the grates of the women's wards, and converfed with them j and gave the catechumens fome token of his approbation.

I cannot forbear doling this account, without mentioning the ardent wifhes it infpired in me, that our prifons alfo, inftead of echoing with pro-

Saturday Dinner. Each man a bowl of boiled peafe, with butter and vinegar fauce; boys, women, and half-talked, have the fame allowance; and all have the fame allowance of rye bread and cheefe as on the Fridays.

The conllant fupper, on week days, for all, is butter milk boiled with barley or grout till thick enough to be eaten without bread; to this, each man has one fourth of a pound of rye bread with cheefe j the boys, women, and half-talked, have only a mefs of the butter milk, but no bread or cheefe.

Cans.

Each man has, during the three fummer months, daily, of beer,	-	-	2i-

and during the three winter months, ditto ditto	-	-	li

and during the remaining fix months, ditto ditto	-	-2

Boys, women, and half-talked, for the three fummer months, each, daily,	-	i|.

and for the remaining nine months,	-	ditto ditto	-	1

In the foregoing regulation for diet, no alteration is to be made, unlefs when fifli fhall be extraordinarily cheap and plentiful, all the prifoners may be indulged with one meal, provided with the confent of all the regents, or of a majority of them.

* The feat is large enough for all the five regents or infpedors : but only one is obliged to attend, and this they do by rotation.

t They were not chained, for no irons are here ufed.

fanenefs

Digitized by

Google

Rotterdam

Rasp-house.

6

APPENDIX.

Rotterdam fanenefs and blafphemy, might hereafter refound with the offices of religious Rasp-house. worj]1jp. ancj prove, like thefe, the happy means of awakening many to a fenfe of their duty to God and man.

In 1781 I vifited the few Englijh prifoners of war in Holland, who were confined at the Admiralty at Rotterdam. A room was affigned for the officers, in which there were only two. In another room (twenty-one feet by eighteen, and fifteen feet high) there were eleven failors, who appeared healthy and well. Several had died a little time before, which I apprehend was in part owing to their being confined in a fmall room called the	,	which was

dirty, without a chimney, and its fides were wood. Their allowance was eight ftivers a day, a bed and coverlet and on moll days they walked fome hours in the court.

Gouda. At La Porte, the prifon at Gouda, there is a fmall room for debtors, which the keeper informed me had not been occupied fince 17fir. There are many (odlagon) rooms, but all empty: fome are affigned to thofe who are committed for fmall offences, and kept to bread and water, for which there is an allowance to each of them of three ftivers a day.—In the	the prifoners

were all employed in carding and fpinning wool for ftockings. On obferving little towels hanging in one room, they told me, that each of them had one clean every week. Here were fome prifoners from the Hague, and other towns which have no rafp-houfes, who were admitted at a ftipulated annual fum, of about a hundred and ten florins for each, befides fifteen for clothing.—Near this city is inclofed a triangiilar gallows, with an infeription over the gate.

Re die faciendo	timeas.

The beft tranflation of which may be the words of Scripture,

“ The righteous is bold as a lion. ”

Leyden.	In the houfe of correction at Leyden there were fourteen men and twenty

women employed in fpinning wool: the talk for each was thirty-two ftivers a week.

The peft-houfe near Leyden is fimilar to that at Rotterdam, but more fpacious. The crew of the Barker Eajl-Indiaman, which was wrecked on this coaft, were here confined. One of the large rooms is now fitted up with beds, &c. for the reception of wounded feamen. But, very injudicioufly, it has been contracted, by two partitions through its whole length.

At

Digitized by v^ooQie

HOLLAND.

7

At Harlem, the Spin-houfe (which is the	or	being	Harlem

old, is not fo airy and commodious as modern buildings. Here were about Spin-house thirty male and fifteen female offenders. The latter were at work with the mother (as they call her) making and mending the linen of the houfe. The former were weaving coarfe linen, in which, at the diftance of every fix inches, there was a blue llripe, to diftinguifh the linen of the houfe, and to prevent its being in any manner difpofed of elfewhere. One perfon was working at a loom on flowered filk damafk, becaufe that had been his former trade.

Taylors were alfo employed in the way of their profeflion. The room in which the women worked, and that in which they flept, were quite clean.

Each bed had two perfons allotted to it, and they were all allowed flieets.

The poor here, as in other work-houfes in Holland, appeared clean and comfortable, and were decently clad.*

In this city (as in fome others) is a noble	hof airy and fpacious, called Harlem

the Proevcniers, in which the perfons admitted arc decently provided with Hospital. meat, drink and lodging during their lives, and a burying-place at their deceafe. Perfons of all ages from twenty to the mod advanced period are admitted, though it is not common for any under forty to apply for admif-fion. At entrance, each perfon pays a greater or fmaller fum, according to his age, as by the table in the note, f A common table is provided for all

* A principal reafon of the cleanlinefs and order of the work-houfes in Holland, is the attention and humanity of the governefles: for each houfe has four, who take the charge of infpe&ion, and have their names painted in their room.

t Age.	Sum.  Florins.	Age.		Sum.  Florins.
20 		5000	40	—	3900
22 —	4900	42	—	3800
24 —	4800	44	—	3700
26 —	47OO	46	—	355°
28	4600	48	—	345°
30 —	45 00	S°	—	3300
32 —	4400	52	—	3'5°
34 —	4300	54	—	3000
36 —	4*5°	56	—	29OO
38 -	4°5°	58	—	275°

Age.	Sum.  Florins.
60 		2700
62 		2600
64 -	2500
66 —	2350
68 —	2200
70 —	2100
72 —	19S°
74 “	1800
76 —	1700
78 -	1600
80 —	1500

who

Digitized by

Google

APPENDIX.

• 8

Harlem

Hospital.

Amsterdam St adt-house.

who are not lick or infirm. If any, after refiding fome time, choofe to have their victuals brought to their rooms, rather than eat in common, they mult pay for that privilege according to their age, one fifth part of the fum that would be required for admifiion at that age. For example, if a perfon of feventy years of age choofes to eat in his apartments, he mult pay one fifth of the admifiion money required at the age of feventy, namely, four hundred and twenty florins.

It often happens that there are not vacant places, when perfons defire admifiion. But many fecure places before a vacancy, by paying two hundred florins in advance of their entrance money; in confequence of which, their names are inlcribed in a lift) and the money deducted from the fum required when they enter.

Those who choofe to leave the houfe entirely, receive, during the remainder of their lives, a certain, though very fmall, intereft of the fum which they paid at admifiion.*

At	Amfterdam I more than once revifited the prifons. At the

the rooms for the debtors are on the ground-floor. In 1778 there were eighteen debtors j in June 1781, fixteen ; in November, feventeen; and in June 1783, feventeen.f I often converfed with them, and found that they were all alimented alike : the firft fourteen days at eleven llivers (a/billing) a day; after that time at five llivers and a half. But this is paid to the gaoler, who has great profit out of it, as appeared from the daily allowance which I weighed feveral times. Each debtor has from the city one quart of beer daily, and turf for firing. The rooms were clean, though the prifoners are never out of them, unlefs twice in a year at the times of white-wafhing. In 1778 there were five criminals, but their offences not being capital, all the llrong rooms under ground were empty. In June and November, 1781, there were no criminals ; in 1783, two petty offenders.

The walls of this prifon are Hone, twenty-two inches thick; moll of the rooms ten feet by nine and a half, each for one prifoner only, a bedllead, &c.

* For. this account I am indebted to Dr. Maclaine, the worthy minifter of the Englilh church

at the Hague.

f There are two places in this country, Viane and Culenburg (not far from Utrecht) whofe ancient privileges exempt them from the jurifdi&ion of Holland. In thofe places a few debtors fereen themfelves from arrefts.

Digitized by

Google

HOLLAND.

9

The door-way twenty-two inches wide; door three inches and a half thick, and plated with iron; the condemned rooms have an iron door befides. There are on the ground-floor two rooms for debtors, and twelve or thirteen for criminals, which open into paflages feven feet wide ; and below ground there are eight more rooms for criminals. The windows are double barred, and open into a pafiage in which there is a ftrong door between every two cells.

From a book containing the names and crimes of all who have been executed at Amjlerdam, from January 1693 to the end of 1766, I find it necefiary to retradl the aflertion “ that for a hundred years paft there have not been executed,	communibuj annis, more than	one a year.” From this publi-

cation, the following ftate of executions at different periods is drawn.

From 1693 to 1735	(43 years)	288.
	1736 - 1745	(10 years)	20.
	 1746 -- 1766	(21 years)	28.
And I have been well informed, that	in ihc eight	years preceding my vifit

in 1783, only five criminals were executed, two of them were beheaded, one broke on the wheel, and two hanged.

An obfervation before efcaped me, concerning the attention of the magi-ftrates to the children, of the malefactors who are executed, and of thoje who are committed, for a long term, to the rafp or fpin-houfes. They are fent to the orphan-houfe, and there brought up in induftry, and not left deftitute vagabonds, to become unhappy victims to the wickednefs and folly of their parents.

Perhaps the computation which I have mentioned of two hundred and fifty thoufand inhabitants in this city may be too great;* though, if I miftake not, Mr.	Karjfeboom,fome time fince, eltimated them at two hundred and

forty-three thoufand; and of late, many Jews banilhed from other countries

>776.	8982.	Deaths in 1780,	IO536.
>77 7»	8939.	i78,»	IO889.
»778>	779*-	1782,	8445.
*779>	9Sl8-		

The numbers marked at the Stadt-bou/e, when I was there in June 1778,

The firft week,	-	121.

fecond week,	-	138.

June 1781, The firft week,	-	176.

fecond week,	-	159.

November 1781, The firft week,

fecond week, -June 1783, The firft week,

fecond week, -

c

272.

284.

168.

*93-

havc

Digitized by

Google

Amsterdam

Stadt-house.

IO

APPENDIX.

Amsterdam.

Rasp-house.

have made an addition to the number. But Dr. Price reckons that they hardly amount to two hundred thoufand.*

The four regentsj- who manage the Rqfp-houje are appointed by. the burgomafters, to whom they are accountable. The gaoler or	is	flridtly

obliged to obey all the orders of the high-bailiff, the burgomafters, and alfo of. the regents. In no cafe may he, or any of his family, receive a gift from the prifoners or their friends, either before or after their enlargement. He muft not entruft a fervant with the keys, but mull himfelf carefully fearch the convicts and their cots, or rooms, before he locks them up in the evening, at fix o’clock in fummer, and at four in winter. The father muft never be abfent for a night, without fpecial permiffion. He is feverely puniflied if any prifoner efcapes. He muft regifter in order all a£ts concerning commitments and difcharges, and produce them to the regents when required. Alfo he muft keep an exact regifter of the clothes, and all other things which belong to thofe confined.

The regents affemble in the houfe at four o’clock every Wednefday afternoon, to colledt and examine the tranfaftions of the preceding week. They appoint a fervant to give any neceffary affiftance to the father, and particularly to cut the flices of bread for the prifoners; and when the father is ill, in the evening to vifit and examine the cots. -

In the nine lower rooms of this houfe, in June 1778, were confined upwards of forty prifoners j in June 1781, fifty-five; in November, fixty-five ; June 6, 1783, fifty-one. One of thefe was incapable of working, his limbs being diflocated by the torture. Each of thefe rooms, in which they work in the day and are locked up at night, contains at leaft four perfons. The fame prifoners do not continue long together, but are removed and feparated once a fortnight or oftener. Few or none of them were rafping logwood, but moft of them chopping it, for the two mills belonging to the houfe: for it was found to be too laborious for moft of the prifoners, to work with fix or eight faws, which often weigh feventy or eighty pounds. The medical gentlemen.

# See Dr. Price's Ob/ernsations on Reverjtonary Payments, p. 186, 187. third edition.

f It may be proper to mention, that thefe Regents have no falaries, but only fome privileges and honorary diltinftions; as exemption from the city watch; liberty of free entrance after one of the city gates is fliut; and a deacon’s feat in the church.

who

Digitized by

Google

HOLLAND.

L

■who daily vifit the prifon, informed the magiftrates that it had been the caufe Amsterdam of frequent ruptures.*	Rasp-house.

No friends of the prifoners are permitted to vifit them, without exprefs orders from the regents, unlefs on Mondays : and then they muft be fearched, to prevent the introduction of Jpirituous liquors, or inltruments for breaking out, or any thing elfe forbidden: and they muft retire before the time for fhutting up. Every vifitant is obliged to put two ftivers into a box entrufted with the father. Refrefliments may be received and given to the convicts on Tuefdays; but not on other days. Every evening, at eight o’clock, the father muft fee that all things are in due order. The faws, and other heavy implements for their work, are taken, from them in the evening, and returned in the morning. If a convict be guilty of breaking any thing confiderable, of burning the logwood, or of neglect or difobedience, he is punifhed feverely by whipping, or confined to bread and water in a dungeon under ground.

Prayers are read morning and evening, and before and after meals, by one of the beft-behaved convits: and divine fervice, with a fermon, is performed in the chapel by a clergyman on Sunday mornings.

Once a year, a little before the change of the regency, the high-bailiff and magiftrates, with a fecretary, attended by the inferior officers of juftice, come to this prifon, in order to contract or lengthen the terms of confinement of the convits, according to their good or bad behaviour, as reprefented by the regents.

The houfe provides for the prifoners, diet,f clothes, fhoes and ftockings, with fhirts of half-bleached Flemilh linen. Here is no infirmary : their

labour

• I had this information from Mr. John Hope, one of their very worthy magiftrates; and to him I am much obliged for copies of the rules and initrudtions to this ,the fpin-houfe,

and the	work-houfe.

-(•The diet of the convidts in the Rafp-houfe in

Sunday Breakfaft. Three flices of rye bread with butter, and a piece of dry bread fix flices thick. (K. B. Three fices weigh half a pound.)

-	-	■—	Dinner or Noon. Half a pound of beef or pork, with beans, fait and vinegar, and

in winter full two pounds of fait meat.

Monday Breakfaft. Six flices with butter, and a piece of bread of three flices thick.

-	■	Dinner. Gray peafe with fait and vinegar.

C 2	Tuesday

Digitized by ^ooQie

12

APPENDIX.

Amsterdam

Rasp-house.

Spin-house.

labour. keeps them in health j the phyfician, with whom I went the round at my laft vifit, had only two patients, and thofe with very flight diforders.

Some perfons are confined in private rooms, to which none have accefs, unlefs in the prefence of a regent. Great care is enjoined the father in conveying provifions to thofe prifoners. With the regents’ leave, on Sunday mornings, fome chapters of the Bible are read to them.*

The Spiti-boufe was for women. This, and the Work-houfe, were under the diredlion of fix regents and four governefles: who appointed two fathers and two mothers to fuperintend and infpe£t the work, the diet,j- and the lodging of the prifoners; and to chaftife the difobedient.

The work-room, was a large room up ftairs, feparated by a wooden baluftrade from the paflage (fix feet wide) into which fpeftators were admitted. This

room

Tuesday Breakfafl. As on Monday.

■■	Dinner. White or gray peafe boiled in water with fait and fage.

Wednesday Breakfafl. As on Monday.

■	- -	Dinner.	Boiled oats or barley with fweet milk and butter upon	it.

■	—	Supper.	Butter milk, with oats or barley boiled in it.

Thursday Breakfafl. Six flices of rye bread with butter, and a piece of bread, as on Sunday morning.

- ■ ----—	Dinner.	Stockfilh, with fweet milk and butter upon it.

Friday. AsTuefday.

Saturday Breakfafl. As Tuefday.

■	—	Dinner.	As Wednefday fupper.

Their drink is four pints of beer daily. But on holidays, viz. two days at Eafter, dfeenfion* day, two at Whitfuntide, three at the fair time, and two at Chrijimas, they have for dinner, fmoaked or fait meat or bacon, beans or peafe, carrots or cabbage, and the three fair days they have flrong beer.

# There are many of thefe rooms, or houfes of confinement in Holland called Verbeterhuixen. The regulations of fome of them I colle&ed ; but as they are liable to abufe, and contrary to the general notions of public juftice, I cannot but wifh that they were univerfally fuppreifed.

•f The diet of the prifoners is as follows.

Sunday

Monday

Dinner. Cut-cabbage with meat. Supper. Butter milk.

Dinner. White beans.

Supper. Sweet milk with barley.

Tuesday

Digitized by

Google

HOLLAND.

*3

room was divided by baluftrades into two, for diftinguifhing thofe who had fuffered fome public or corporal punijhment, from the others who had not been whipped, and expofed on a fcaffold.

The mother was feated at a defk (where fhe had a full view of her family at work) with a Bible before her. By calling there on Whitfun-Monday, I found that they kept the fame holidays as at the Rafp-houfe.

The kitchen, the dining and lodging-rooms, wer£ on the ground-floor. In each of the three bed-rooms were ten wooden cafes, with a ftraw mattrefs, two coverlets, lheets, and one large pillow, for two perfons. All were clean, and Ihewed the attention of the regents. In 1778, the number of criminals was forty-fix; in June 1781, thirty-two; and in November, forty.

This houfe was fupported by a fmall annual tax on thofe who fell tobacco, beer and other liquors, and one fourth part of what was received at public exhibitions and	diverfions.

At my vifit in June 1783, the prifoners were all removed into the New Work-houfe.

The old Rafp-houfe or Work-houfe was worthy of obfervation, as a well-regulated houfe of induftry. Here were confined beggars and vagabonds, who, for the firft crime, were committed for fix weeks; and for the fecond, three months ; but for the third, their punifhment was either a longer period of confinement or banilhment. Drunkards alfo were here confined, and fuch as were guilty of petty larceny. In a large room, at one of my vifits, I faw forty-fix women carding, fpinning and reeling; twelve, weaving coarfe linen or fail-cloth ; thirteen, making and mending linen; one employed in keeping the room clean: and the mother holding a (late before her, on which was in-

Tuesday	Dinner.	Beans.
	Supper.	Butter milk.
Wednesday	Dinner.	Gray peafe.
	Supper.	Butter milk.
Thursday	Dinner.	Barley.
	Supper.	Bread and beer.
Friday	Dinner.	White beans.
	Supper.	Butter milk.
Saturday	Dinner.	Beans.
	Supper.	Butter milk.

fcribed

Digitized by

Google

Amsterdam

Spin-house.

T AX.

Work-house,

14

APPENDIX.

Amsterdam Work-house.

I\E\V WORK-HOUSE.

fcribed the names of the prifoners.* Some and hoys were in another large room, in which were many looms. But molt of the men were at work in the courts, boiling and picking oakum, for calking the feams of (hips. Among thefe men I counted forty or fifty women) and in 1781 there were twenty-five men and a hundred and twenty women'all employed in the fame manner, ■)■ except five or fix who were mending the linen of the houfe.

The women’s bed-room was fpacious ; and I found it clean and in order, though I was there before ten o’clock in the forenoon.

This houfe was provided with (what feems to be much wanted in the Dutch prifons in general) an infirmary.But it was too fmall and clofe for thepurpofe.J

The diet of the prifoners was the fame as in the Spin - houfe. || Their provifions were bought in confiderable quantities. The rye for bread was on the floor in an airy room, and was fweet and good. The produce of the prifoners work was applied to the maintenance of the houfe, and the deficiency was made up from the Sfin-botije tax. The expence for each prifoner was full five (livers a day. Their number was generally from a hundred and fifty, to two hundred.

♦

These prifoners are removed into the new work-houfe or houfe of correction, which at my vifit in June 1783, was finifhed. There were in it four hundred prifoners. The ingenious architect, Mr.	,	favoured me with the

plan of this elegant and commodious building.

• Three fathers and three mothers were appointed to fuperintend this houfe. One father had the direction of the houfe keeping, and the other two overlooked the manufactory. One mother managed the kitchen, and the office of the others was to keep the prifoners cleanly, and to take care of their bedding.	#

f They have a quick fale for oakum ; the Admiralty and India company find the old cords, and take the oakum when fit for ufe.

I The mode of keeping patients extremely warm, and preventing the free circulation of air by woollen curtains, occafions me to fay fo little refpeCting the infirmaries or hofpitals in Hollatid.

|| Though in this houfe, and the Spin-houfe, as well as in moll of the other houfes of corre&ion in Holland, the prifoners had meat only on Sundays, yet the peafe, beans, barley, &c. are always made into a kind of thick foup or pottage, which is palatable, and is ferved up hot at noon.

I FREQUENTLY

Digitized by

Google

H O L L A N D.

*5

I frequently vifited the Dol-buis, and am perfuaded, it is the beft con-ftrudled hofpital for the infane which I have feen in Europe.

» -

In the Orphan-houfe at Amfterdam there were about thirteen hundred children of both fexes, June io, 1783. The rooms for the directors and the kitchen were neat and clean ; but the bed-rooms were clofe and unhealthy, being crowded with beds, with three or four children for each bed. The infirmaries were fituated on the ground-floor ; and the beds in them, with two or three children in each) inclofed in boxes in the walls. For want of air, the workrooms, fchool-rooms and refedtories. were fo unhealthy and offenfive, that the children here (as in three other orphan-houfes in this city, and in the orphan-houfe at Rotterdam) are indeed objects of great companion. Many of the fervants in thefe houfes are old and indolent; the children miferably nafty, and moil: of them troubled with fcorbutic and cutaneous diforders to a great degree. On obferving this to fome of the directors, they replied in words that gave me pain and excited my indignation, “ It is the houfe diforder; all our children mufi: have a feafoning.” Thus do the phyficians and governors excufe the abufe of their truil; the confequence mull be, that few of the children reach manhood, and thatJuch as do, are a feeble and fickly race.*

In the prifon at Zwolle in Overyjfel there were no felons nor has there been an execution there for many years.

The houfe of correction, ‘Tucht-huys, eredted in 1735, *s a neat building fituated on the ramparts. In November 1781, there were in it feventeen men and twenty-fix women. There is an iron-latticed door in the front, and over it the device of a dragon chained. This and another door open into a court, on two fides of which are rooms for the men. In each of thefe I faw three or four prifoners, and they all Jlept as well as worked in their rooms, f On the other two fides are the keeper’s apartments, in which are windows properly

* In many of the towns in Holland I purchafed the different forts of bread, of various bakers, not only to fee if the police was ftrift in that neceffary article, but alfo to compare the price with that of other places, and particularly of London. At Jtnjlcrdam, June 5, 1778, the two fliver loaf of white bread weighed cxa&ly 1 lb.—the one and half fliver loaf of Left rye bread,

I lb. iooz.—the black rye bread, a doit lei's than a fliver per lb. Eleven ftivers being equal to a fhilling, the white bread was above two-pence a pound. In 1781, bread was fomewhat dearer. — By a lift at the Stadt-houfe, June 7, 1783, white bread was iioz. for two flivers ; and black rye bread was one fliver per lb.

f See Profeffor Camper's alteration at Groningen, 4to. edit. p. 130.

placed.

Digitized by

Google

Amsterdam

Dol-huis.

Orphan-

house.

Zwolle.

Tucht-huys.

i6

APPENDIX.

Zwolle. placed, to overlook the court. The women were on the firft floor, in two feparate work-rooms, fpinning and knitting : nine of them, who had been branded, were working in a room by themfelves, and they had alfo a feparate lodging-room. The men were fpinning ; except two, who were weaving, and had their door open into the court.

As I examined this prifon at the defire of Profcflbr Camper, who thought it one of the beft in Holland, I here give the plan of it.

Utrecht. In the Stadt-boujeat Utrecht in 1778 were no debtors, and only one criminal, and his offence was not capital. In 1781, there were no debtors-, but there were five criminals, two of whom were confined to bread and water. The allowance to debtors,(by their creditors) the firft week, is twenty-eight ftivers a day; the fecond week, fixteen; and every day afterwards, eight ftivers.* The Jlate allows criminals thirteen ftivers a day, which are paid to the gaoler. There has not been an execution, for the city or province, in the laft twenty years.

Srin- house.	I went over the Spin-houfewith Mr. Van Goens, one of the magiftrates, to

whofe kindnefs I am indebted for the following account of the inftru<5lions to the keeper. In this houfe at a former vifit I found thirty-feven men, and thirty-four women. The criminals were employed in carding and fpinning wool, and knitting. The 'men were three in a room:	the women were

feparated, according to their crimes. In October 1781, there were fifty and twenty-fix women. Nine women who had been publicly whipped had their work-room and bed-room feparate from tiie reft. In June 1783, there were twenty-five men,and thirty-fix women-, thirty of thefe in one room, and fix in another.

The overfeer or keeper has a houfe for the refidence of himfelf and his family, and an annual falary of a thoufand guilders from the ftates, and a hundred and thirty from the city, clear of all dedu&ions. According to the copy of inJlru5lions, he mult not be abfent a night out of the city, without leave from the chief officer and the regents. He muft, with affiftants, fearch every part of the cells twice a week, to fee whether any thing be done,— attempted,—or introduced,' that is not permitted :	and	he muft carefully

infpeft all things that are conveyed to the prifoners, that no tools, or glafs.

•In the	Verbeterbuizen a gradation	is alfo obferved in the alimentary	allowance.

no

Digitized by ^ooQie

HOLLAND.

»7

no	gin or other Jlrong liquors may be concealed: and he muft himfelf, or one

of his family, be prefent when any perfons come to fee the houfe; and no more than fix vifitants are to be admitted at one time. He muft fee that the provifions for the prifoners be good j and take care that the manufacturer pays the fame for their work, as he would if he employed others. He muft confine thofe condemned for a long term, in ftrong rooms feparate from the reft. He may correct moderately; but if the prifoners are refradtory, and deferve feverer punilhment, he muft inform the regents. By a particular permiflion from the magiftrates, he may take in as boarders, perfons of bad behaviour, at the defire of their parents, guardians or relations. The regents only can appoint, or difcharge, a fervant, or turnkey.

Leewenberch Gajl-huys, in the fuburbs of the city, was endowed (as appears by an infcription upon it) by a lady of that name, for a peft-houfe, and built in 1567. I chufe to give a plan and defcr!ption of it, becaufe I think it capable of being improved into a model for a good county hofpital. There is an afcent of two fteps into the veftibule, which has two folding-doors on both fides, and windows over them, and a ftaircafe to rooms above. On the fides of an extenfive pafiage there are four fpacious wards, thirty feet high. A part of one of thefe has been converted into a kitchen j and in each of the other three there are twelve beds. They have galleries for opening the windows j and flues from the chimneys meet over the middle windows. Like the hof-pitals in Italy, there are no rooms over the wards j and this is a circumftance very favourable to the health of the patients. The floors confift of fquare bricks, and are fupported by ftrong pillars and arches ten feet wide. From the rooms over the veftibule is the entrance to an .open gallery (eight feet wide) over the pafiage, from which all the wards may be feen. By opening the oppofite doors, this houfe may be always kept cool and frefh. It is one of the drieft I ever vifited. The rain-water is conducted from the roof through vaults built on the outlide of the wards, to prevent them from being offenfive.

At Deventer, the prifon is near the river	It confifts of four rooms,

which were all clean and fanded, but had no prifoners. When there are any, fixteen Jlivers a day are paid for each j which the gaoler receives, as at moft other towns. Prifoners for capital offences are removed to the Stadt-houfe, where the fame allowance is continued.

D	’	The

Digitized by

Google

Utrecht

Spin-house

Leewenberch

Gast-huys.

Deventer.

APPENDIX.

18

Middleburc,

House of Correction

Dort.

Breda.

House of Correction.

The rooms in the prifon at Middleburg are fpacious, lofty, and clean. The three dungeons are ul'ed to force a confeffion; as there is no dire<5t torture, and the criminal is not executed till the crime is confefied. The allowance to a criminal is eight Jlivers a day.

In the houfe of correction, the prifoners were employed in weaving cloth or facking for the Eaji India company. This is more profitable than their late employment on coarfe carpeting. None were in irons. No more than four perfons were in any of the men's rooms j in fome there were but two. Each criminal pays three guilders at his entrance, and the fame at his difcharge.

At Dordrecht (or Dort) the prifon is in the Stadt-houfe. It confifts of rooms up ftairs, which are diftinguifhed on the outfide by ftrong iron bars in the windows. In this prifon there are feldom any prifoners, though the jurif-diflion (or bailiwick) extends through thirty villages. There was one criminal here in November 1781. I have been well informed, that for thirty or forty years there has been but one debtor here, and that he continued in confinement only fourteen days.

The prifon at Breda is an old tower. In 1781, there were no prifoners in it except one boy, though thirteen villages, and fome of them large, are under the jurifdittion of this city. The allowance to criminals is five Jlivers a day. I was informed, that the torture (tool in the chamber of examination has not been ufed for many years paft.

In the new houfe of correction in 1778, there were eleven men and two women prifoners; and in November 1781, fifteen men and four women. They were employed on a coarfe 'carpeting, like the Scotch carpeting, but much cheaper. The fpecimen which I purchafed, coft only eleven Jlivers, or a Jhilling their ell, which is two feet four inches. I here give the plan of the houfe taken by the builder, who has been particularly attentive to certain apartments which delicacy forbids enlarging upon, though they are of the greateft importance to the prefervation of the health of prifoners. In this and other fimilar houfes, the paflages are very offenfive, for the keepers will never open the windows. It would therefore be much better if the windows were wire lattice.

The old houfe of corre<5tion was burnt down about ten years fince, and l'even women periflied in the flames. In the conftrudtion of the new prifon,

proper

Digitized by

Google

HOLLAND.

*9

proper precautions were taken againft fuch an accident, by laying the beams or large joifts edgeways, and arching the fpace with brick work, and cafing the two under Tides of the beams with iron plates.

Breda

House of

Correction,

I .leave this country with regret, as it affords a large field for information on the important fubjefl I have in view. I know not which to admire moft, the neatnejs and cleanlinefs appearing in the prifons, the induftry and regular tondufl of the prifoners, or the humanity and attention of the magiftrates and governors. *

Nothing can be more unreafonable than the pretences ufed among us to juftify inattention and negligence. I cannot help taking this occafion to add the following authorities on this fubje<5t. All unprejudiced perfons mufl acknowledge the abfolute necefiity of frejh air and cleanlinefs to preferve and promote health. To this purpofe Dr. Mead writes, in his	concerning

Pejlilential	Contagion“ Nothing approaches fo near to the firft original of

“	contagion,as	air pent up, loaded with damps, and corrupted with the filthinefs

“ that proceeds from animal bodies. Our common prifons afford us an inflance “ of this, in which very few efcape, what they call the gaol fever, which is “ always attended with a degree of malignity in proportion to the clofenefs and “flench of the place. And it would certainly very well become the wifdom “ of the government, as well with regard to the health of the town, as in “ compaffion to the prifoners, to take care, that all houfes of confinement, fhould “ be kept as airy and clean, as is confiftent with the ufe, to which they are “ defigned.”—And	“as naftinefs is a great	fource of infection, fo cleanlinefs is

“the greateft prefervative.”—From the general practice of foreigners in building their prifons near the water, it feems, that they were convinced of the bad effects of offenfive drains, and of the necefiity of cleanlinefs; and they had no apprehenfions of bad confequences arifing from fuch a fituation. Dr. lleberden has exprefied his fentiments on this fubje6t in the Medical tTranfattions.% “In England few make any doubt of the great danger attend-

* I should accufe myfelf of ingratitude, did not I take this occafion to exprefs my acknowledgments to Sir Jofeph Vorke who not only exerted himfelf with ardour to promote the fuccefs of my enquiries; but while I was confined at the Hague in confequence of an accident, favoured me with inftances of kindnefs and friendlhip that I never can forget.

f Page 41, &c. 3d edit. 1720.	}	Page	521,	524.

D 2	ing

Digitized by k^ooQle

o

APPENDIX.

OSNABRUC.

“ ing wet rooms, and damp cloaths, or beds: Is this opinion founded “ upon experience, or is it a prejudice, which has been fuffered to grow “ up and get ftrength merely for want of being examined ? If we enquire “ into the arguments in favor of this notion, we fhall hardly find any other, “ than the random conjectures of the fick about the caufe of their illnefsj or “ than their artfully fubftituting this origin of it inftead of fome other, which “ they are unwilling to own.—The air from rivers and from the fea is pro-“ bably more replenilhed with vapors, than inland countries cleared of their “ woods ; yet the moft celebrated of antient phyficians recommended the “ bank of a running river for the fituation of a houfe, on account of its “ peculiar healthinefs; and many invalids are fent by the modern phyficians “ to the fea fide, only for the benefit of the fea air. ”

G E

R M A

N

Y.

I went into Germany in June 1778, by	and	The prifon

at OJnabrug I Ihould entirely omit, did I not entertain a hope, that the account of it may poflibly engage the notice of an amiable Prince who is the prefent bijhopy and fo be the means of alleviating the fufferings of the miferable pri-foners. The prifon and the houfe of correction is one large building, fituated in an airy part of the fuburbs, near a brook. A	infcription	over the

gate implies, that it was erected “ at the public expence, in 1756, for the purpofes of public juftice and utility, by confining and punifhing the wicked." —There are feventeen chambers for criminals, which have no light but by a fmall aperture over each door. I was happy to find here no more than one prifoner. He had been confined three years, and had furvived the cruelty of the torture. * In another part of the houfe I found many miferable and fickly objefts, men, women and children, almoft all without Ihoes and ftockings.

• The mode of torture here is more excruciating than in moft other countries, and is known by the name of the OJnabrug torture. I doubt not but the humanity and good fenfe of his Royal Highnefs, will abolilh it when he comes of age.

They

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

21

They were fpinning in different rooms, which were dirty beyond defcription. Thefe rooms open into a paffage, which a gentleman in office in the city, to whom I was recommended, durft not enter. I enquired of the keeper, concerning feveral particulars in the diet, &c. but the mifery expreffed in the countenances of the prifoners, made me totally difregard the information given me by words.

In the prifon at Hanover, in 1778, there were two debtors, and three criminals; and in October 1781, there were twenty-nine prifoners, many of whom had been confined a year, and others fix months, without being brought to trial. Some of them were women committed with their hufbands, but lodged in different rooms. The allowance to all is the fame, viz. two marin gros (2-J-d.) per day. Seven of the lower rooms are for the more atrocious criminals. At my laft vifit I found feven prifoners (one in each room) fecured by chains on their feet fattened to the walls, and irons on their wrifts, with a bar between, two feet long. The keeper is old and infirm, and the prifon grows evidently dirtier as he grows older. A guard of fix foldiers and an officer is ftationed here day and night, who are relieved every morning at eight, and do duty alternately by taking two hours and four , fo that each foldier is on guard eight out of the twenty-four hours.

I was forry to find the execrable pra&ice of torturing prifoners here ufed : it is performed in a cellar, where the horrid engine is kept. The time for it is, as in other countries, about two o’clock in the morning. A criminal fuffered the O/nabrug torture twice about two years ago; the laft time, at putting to him the third queftion, (the executioner having torn off the hair from his hegd, breaft, &c.) he confeffed, and was executed. On fuch occafions, a counfellor and fecretary attend, with a doflor and furgeon, an executioner, and fometimes the gaoler. If the criminal faints, ftrong falts are here applied to him, and not vinegar as in fome other places.

The boufe of correction is a new building in an airy fituation, appropriated to vagrants, children, and petty offenders. Here were ninety-four perfons, fifty-eight of whom were children, clothed in a neat uniform of blue and white linfey-woolfey made in the houfe. The girls were all fpinning cotton and linen. The boys, in fome rooms, were carding and fpinning wool and linen, and making lift fhoes and carpets. In one room there were fix boys (the eldeft only twelve years of age) working at fo many looms for faddle

girths

OSNABRUG.

Hanover.

House of Correction,

Digitized by L^ooQle

22

APPENDIX.

Hanover House of Correction.

Brunswick.

House of Correction.

girths and clothes. In two other rooms there were a number of women employed in fpinning. There are all'o two fmall rooms for harder work, fuch as rafping logwood and harts-horn. The coverlets of all the beds had been made in the houfe. The orders for regulating the hours of work, learning, recreation, &c. were hung up in the fchool room. Both old and young were neat and clean ; and every thing in the houfe appeared quiet and orderly.

This inftitutio,n, of only two years Handing, does great honour to the founder and direftor Mr. Burgomafter	,	and	is	the	bcft	monument

that can ever be erefled for him. A good choice has been made of proper perfons to prefide, and infpefl; which is a circumftance of the importance in fuch houfes.

Besides their own clothes, quilts, &c. the prifoners here make girths, flippers, and lift carpets for fale, fpecimens of which I brought with me.*

In the town-houfe at Brunfwick there are feveral rooms of confinement for citizens, but they were unoccupied.

The tower, or prifon for capital offences, is over one of the gates. It confifts of three rooms, but none of them had been occupied for a confiderable time. There had been no execution for fourteen years.

In the prifon for the flaves, the barracks were without beds. They had heavy irons, and at a former vifit their countenances were unhealthy. But in O&ober 1781, they appeared healthy and clean, and were furnilhed with fhoes, ftockings, and proper clothing. The irons were fixed round their wailts and fhoulders, and not their legs. My vifit being on Sunday, I ob-ferved that their barrows, which had all chains on the handles, were ranged on the outfide of the houfe, ready for work the next day.

The work-houfe, or houfe of correction, Hands near the river that runs through the city. In October 1781, there were here about feventy prifoners

* The weight of the bread in this city, corrcfpondcd to the Jlandard (or aflize), viz.

Fine	lb.  1	oz.  10	at 2 mar in gros (z-’-d).
Second	4	+	- 2 bonne gros (3^-d).
Third	5	7	ditto ditto.

Here, as in the Pruffian and many other cities, there is alfo a Jlandard for beef, pork, &c.

mutton,

who

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

23

who are always locked up. On the firft and fecond floor, the men and women fleep in. boxes in the pafifages. In the work-rooms (it being Sunday) I was much furprifed to find them all (except fome lunatics in chains) employed in carding and fpinning. This accounted for the keeper’s preventing me from feeing them at chapel, by faying no perfon was admitted. I was, however, admitted after the fervice, and concluded from the fand on the floor at the prifoners benches, that few or none had attended. My conductor infilled on carrying a pan of charcoal through the rooms; but his fumigation could not overcome the offenfivenefs of this dirty houfe.

On one of the doors, both within and without, was hung lip the following order, dated December 12, 1748.

1.	That decent people may infpett the houfe: 2. But no more than four at a time. 3. That they mull put a florin (zs. 6d.) into the box, for the prifoners whofe term is expired, to aflill them in palling on their journey, and prevent them from begging or dealing. 4. Nothing muft be given to the keepers, or to the prifoners confined for punifhment.

In 1781 I was obliged to apply to the magiftrates in Bremen for permiffion to vifit the prifons, one of the keepers having lately been confined fourteen days to bread and water, for fuffering a townfman to converle with a prifoner.

The gaol is a tower at one of the gates. In the lower part there are four ftrong rooms or cells about thirteen feet four inches, by fix feet eight, and fix feet high. The doors are four feet ten inches high, and five inches thick, with iron plates between the boards. The windows are only fmall apertures fourteen inches by nine. I found a prifoner in the fame cell in which I had feen him five years before. He had made his efcape but had been retaken. There had been no execution in this city for twenty-fix years.

In another prifon down ten fteps from the ftreet there are fix rooms for criminals, without windows. One was fix feet nine inches by four feet and a half, and feven feet high: another was ten feet by five and a half, and fix feet high. The allowance is fix Jous (3^d) a day, but there were no prifoners. In this difmal abode one had lately beat himfelf to death againft the wall, which was ftained with his blood.

At the Clock-tower, there are feveral rooms for petty offenders, whofe diet is only bread and water; the allowance three Jous (i^d) a day; but their term of confinement is feldom longer than fix, eight, or fourteen days.

In

Brunswick House of Correction.

Bremen.

Tower.

Clock-

tower.

Digitized by ^ooQie

24

Bremen

House of

Correction.

Stat armen Haus.

APPENDIX.

In the houfe of correction, the diet of the men differed from that of the •women only in quantity : two men were in a mejs, and three women. They have meat only on Sundays and great holidays. The keeper has a falary, and fells nothing. The prifoners defcend by a trap-door into the gallery of the church, where the men and women are feparated, and have wooden baluftrades before them. This church belongs to an adjoining poor-houfe (Stat armen baus) in which there is a number of clean rooms opening into paffages feven feet wide, and large enough to hold four beds in each. The number of poor in thefe rooms was' a hundred and eighty, about eighty of whom were knitting, fpinning and fewing in a large work-room. The regulations for the condudl of the houfe were hung up in the refedlory. The poor are here liberally accommodated in the decline of life j and their cheerful countenances cannot but give great plealure to all that vifit them. Above ftairs is a neat apothecary’s fhop, and a room for the infpedtors which opens into the church, and in which are infcribed the names of the	from	171a,

and of the deacons from 1698.

Not long fince, this city was remarkable for the number of children begging in the ftreets •, but a work-houfe has been lately eftablilhed for the purpofe of employing them; and here, in two rooms, I faw about a hundred and feventy from fix to nine years of age, fpinning (with Jmall wheels) under proper mailers and miftreffes. They are allowed, at leajl twelve fous (6-J.d) a week, and all were clean, and feemed cheerful and happy; but were not allowed either diet or lodging in the houfe. The benefits arifing from clearing the ftreets of fuch a nuifance, have induced the inhabitants of other places, to make enquiries concerning this ufeful plan. The orders and regulations are hung up in the houfe, and confift of nineteen articles, from which I have made the following extra&s.

A It T IC L T.

I.	The children mult not come into the houfe without their heads combed, and their

hands and face walhed. For the firft neglect they are reprimanded, for the fecond punilhed.

II.	Parents mult keep their children quite clean. .

III.	The children mult obey their governors.

IV.	They mult endeavour to learn well and quick.

V.	Work begins in the morning from fix to eight, according to the length of the days ; and

in the afternoon always at one.

VI.	One hour after they have begun work they are to* be called over, hear prayers, and

fing a hymn.

VII.

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

VII. to XIII. Direft the puniftiment to be infli&ed for not attending regularly, and their treatment in cafe of ficknefs.

XIV.	Orders the punilhments for fwearing, injuring others, and damaging the work.

XV.	Relates to the conduct of parents who hinder their children from regular attendance,

in this houfe or at fchool.

XVI.	Declares the peculiar attention the magiftrates will give to thofe parents. &c. who

bring up their children in the fear of God, and in obedience to thefe regulations.

XVII.	to XIX. Defcribe the rewards to children for their attention and diligence.

The contributions to defray the expence of this ufeful iniUtution are voluntary ; and a collection for this purpofe is made from houfe to houfe, every week. No fubfeription is taken lefs than one gros per week ; and the greateft fubfeription is thirty-fix gros per week.

At Harburg, there were thirteen flaves working on the fortifications, with irons on one leg, and chains fupported by girdles round their waifts. Their allowance is three halfpenny worth of bread (pain d'ammunition) and five farthings a day. They are guarded by foldiers, who have orders to fire on them if they attempt to efcape : but, notwithstanding this, when the Elbe was frozen over (1780) five efcaped to Hamburg.

At	Hamburg, in the	Biitteley, there is no court-yard,	and only one day-

room on the ground-floor. Above flairs, are fix or eight ftrong rooms about ten feet fquare. Allowance for each prifoner is four marks a week (a mark is. 3d.). Divine fervice is conftantly performed on Sundays and Thurfdays. In 1781 there were here only two criminals and one debtor. I faw them at chapel, and they feemed very attentive and much affected. The prifon was clean : but I perceived by the countenance of the gaoler and his unwillingnefs to (hew me again the torture room, that he had feen my publication.

The	Work-houje, or great houfe of correction (Wert-und Tucbt hauje) is

defigned for the reception of the poor—beggars—and petty offenders. The rooms are fifteen feet wide, and have oppofite windows. The tajk of logwood to a ftrong man is 451b. per day. Some men and horfes worked at a fulling mill; and a fmith was in conftant employment.

At my vifit in 1781, the whole number in the houfe was about fix hundred. I was happy to find a great alteration in the countenances of the inhabitants, and in the ftate of the houfe as to cleanlinefs. It is governed by eight directors (or regents) who muft be married men. They meet every Saturday in a room

E	appropriated

2 5

Bremen

House of

Correction.

Harburc.

Hamburg.

Work-house.

Digitized by k^ooQle

i6

APPENDIX.

Hamburg

Work-house.

appropriated to them, to examine and give orders. There is alfo a room for their ladies, who meet at the fame time to deliver out the women’s work ; and too much cannot be faid in praife of their care and attention.

In the chapel, the men have a room below, and the women above. An hour is fpent in the fervice here every morning.

There are feveral dark rooms for the confinement of the refractory, (thirteen feet by four feet nine inches) over which are the names Ethiopia, India, London, &c.—There is a fpacious and convenient kitchen, and bake-houfe. But the fick rooms, both for the men and women, are too fmall. In the room where the regents meet, are their names and arms and alfo the regulations which Mr. Van Hajfel, one of the regents was fo kind as to give me, together with a book containing an account of the inftitution, reprinted in 1766 from the original in 1622.

This book contains inftru&ions for the governors—orders for the officers of the houfe, (fuch as fteward, fchool-mafter, talk-mafter, clerk, rafp-mafter, turnkey, and porter)—and regulations for the management of the poor, and of fuch as have been committed for offences.—The fteward is to ring a bell every morning at five, (Sundays excepted) as a fignal for the officers, the poor, &cc. to rife, and prepare for prayers; he is then to deliver the keys to the turnkey—-He and his wife are to diftribute the meals, and fee that all in the houfe are properly inilrufted as to moral and religious duties—They are required to eftablilh and preferve good order and harmony among the other officers—The fteward mult not permit the poor, or the wives, children, or fervants of the other officers, to converfe with fuch as are confined for offences, or to buy or fell any thing for them—The Jcbool-mafter muft inftruft the children in religion, and encourage them, at proper times to learn and repeat portions of Scripture—he muft alfo teach them reading, writing, and accounts; and a decent behaviour to thofe that vifit the houfe—He muft take care that they attend divine fervice, and are orderly at it •, and his wife, with the wives of other officers, are required to examine the rooms in order to guard againft mifchief, and wicked contrivances, and the danger of fire—The tajk-mafter on Monday morning muft give every perfon a particular tajk for the week, and on Saturday take an account of it—in giving their talks, attention muft be paid to the trade in which they had been employed, and to their ability and Ikill—The talk-mafter is not permitted to undertake any work, either by himfelf or his wife, for his own private advantage—his wife has the care of

all

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

27

all the linen of the houfe—The clerk muft keep an exatt account of the receipts—and expenditure — of all the money — and materials—for .work— provifions—and furniture—The	rafp-mafter and the turnkey have the care of the

criminals, to conduct them to, and from, their work j to prepare their wood, and tools ; and to ferve them with provifions—Every Saturday the rafp-mafter muft fee, that all their rooms are fwept, and thoroughly walked—he is never to go abroad without bqing permitted by the fteward, and delivering to him the keys—he muft avoid all familiarity in converfing with the criminals— The tafk-mafter, with the rafp-mafter, muft carefully vifit the bed- rooms of the prifoners two or three times every week, and examine their bedding and ftraw—The porter muft not fuffer any of the poor to go out, without leave, and obtaining a leaden Jlamp from the fteward—he muft Hand before the doors of the bed-rooms of the criminals while they pafs to their work-rooms in the morning, and alfo when they return in the evening.

The poor are not allowed to be abfent all night, or to bring in company. Such as have learned to work, and appear to be reformed and induftrious, are on their humble petition to be difcharged.

When prifoners are brought in, they muft be examined and walhed, and if necefiary, clothed. Every Saturday afternoon they are to be dilmifled from work to clean themfelves, and walh their rooms and the court j after which they are to receive clean linen.

Absence from prayers, fwearing, curling, lying and cheating, quarrelling, or feeing others quarrel and fight without giving notice to. the fteward or fchool-mafter, are punilhed by fine or forfeiture. All who commit any violence, or attempt an efcape, together with thofe who abet or conceal them are punilhed by a prolongation of their term of confinement, if not in fome other way. Such as refufe to work are to be punilhed with Ihort allowance, or with ftripes; and for a continued refufal, muft be ignominioufly expofed or put into the pillory. After an efcape they are recommitted and punilhed j but for the fecond efcape they are banilhed from the city and territory.

I observed, in the table of diet, that the poor are allowed no meat, except on the great fejlivals. At their meals they are allowed rye bread, and at breakfaft, butter with it. At dinner and /upper they are allowed peeled barley, oats, or buck-wheat hot, with milk (which in that city is remarkably good). The logwood-rafpers, and hemp-beaters are allowed a double quantity of bread and butter.

E 1	The

\

Digitized by

Google

Hamburg

Work-house.

28

APPENDIX.

Hamburg Work-house.

Sp I N-HOUSE.

Pest-house.

The fick are allowed a better diet confiding of white bread, beer, foup, or meat, juft as ordered by the phyfician.

In the	Spin-houfe, the rooms of which are more lightfome than thofe of

the other houfe, in 1781 there were fifty-two prifoners.

The	hofpital for the	fick (formerly the	ftands	in	the fuburbs.

The wards being crowded with beds, the cielings low, and the windows kept fhut in the warmeft days, it may properly be called a

DENMARK.

.At the entrance of many towns in Denmark, a whipping-poft ftands con-fpicuous; on the top of which the figure of a man is placed with a fword by his fide, and a whip in his right hand.* Gibbets and wheels are alfo placed on eminences, on which the bodies of malefattors are fometimes left after execution, to deter others from their crimes.

Criminals are never put into irons before their trial, unlefs when they are apprehended in the a£t of murder, or fome other very atrocious crime. After condemnation, application is made to parliament, which either confirms or reverfes the fentence pronounced.

Some criminals are punilhed by being whipped in the market-place and banifhed. Some of the lower fort, as watchmen, coachmen, &c. are punilhed by being led through the city in what is called the	f This mode

of punilhment is particularly dreaded, and is one caufe that night-robberies are never heard of in Copenhagen.

* Would not fome public intimations of the punilhment to follow crimes be ufeful alfo in England? Notwithftanding the numbers of fifhermen and loofe boys about the Hague, and Scbcvelin, their public walks and beautiful plantations remain uninjured; which is owing, partly to the ftridtnefs of the police, and partly to the warnings given by painted on boards, and hung up in different places, with reprefentations of whipping, cutting off hands. Sec.

t The Spanijh mantle is a kind of heavy veil, fomething like a tub, with an apciture for the head, and irons to inclofe the neck. I meafured one at Berlin, one foot eight inches diameter at the top, two feet eleven at the bottom, and two feet eleven inches high. In order to convey to my readers a clearer idea of it, I have reprefented it in a drawing.

The

Digitized by

Google

DENMARK.

-9

The place of execution is out of the city. Decollation is reckoned more honourable by the fword than by the axe. This is the common mode of execution; but of fome more heinous crimes the punilhment is breaking on the wheel} and in executing this on Hate prifoners, it has been the praftice fometimes to begin with cutting off their right hands. After the fentence of a criminal is confirmed, he is allowed time to prepare for death, from eight to fourteen days, as the chaplain attending him thinks neceflary.' He is confined in a cell (or dungeon) at night, but is allowed to be in an upper room in the day.

Executions are rare. A great number for child-murder are condemned to work in fpin-houfes for life, and to be whipped annually, on the day when, and the fpot, where the crime was committed. This mode of punilhment is dreaded more than death, and fince it has been adopted has greatly prevented the frequency of the crime. The punilhment for grand-larceny has been, fince 1771, whipping, and flavery for life.

At Rendjlurg in Holjlein, in the guard-room at the entrance of the prifon, on a fiate was a lift of feventy-feven flaves; fixty well, and feventeen lick. They are diftinguilhed by a brown coat, with red fleeves, and irons on one leg, with a chain faltened to their waifts. They work on the fortifications; in fummer from five to eleven, and from one to fix. Their bread was coarfe and black, and feemed by the tafte, to be made of buck-wheat. Befidcs an allowance of bread, they have a pay of one ftiver (a penny) a day.* They lie on barrack beds. Their countenances were more clear and healthy than thofe of the common people, poltillions, &c. who have opportunities of procuring fpirituous liquors.

At	Copenhagen, the	State-prifonis in the citadel. In this prifon there are

five or fix rooms, about fifteen feet by fourteen, with one window, and a cafe or bed in each. Thefe rooms were clean and white-wafhed. I obferved here one prifoner, who was guarded by an officer and foldier in the room, and another at the door, though the guard-room was below. The weather being then very warm, (thermometer 77°.) he was permitted to have his window open : and this is all the frefh air allowed ftate-prifoners, for they are never

* The Danijh foldiers have the fame fort and quantity of bread, and two JHvers a day.

fuffered

Digitized by

Google

COPF. N HAGEN.

Ren dsburg.

Copenhagen.

3°

APPENDIX.

Copenhagen

State-

P R ISON.

Stadens

AR R EST-H US.

Blue-tower.

Stoct-hus.

fuffered to go out of their rooms. The king makes them an ample allowance for diet. At the time of divine fervice, their doors are opened, and they hear it by an oblique perforation into the church, through the thick wall oppofite to the doors.

I observed chains fattened to the wall in the clofe rooms, where the Counts Struenjee and Brandt had been confined.* Here are fome dark rooms for the punifhment of foldiers, but no dungeons.

In the prifon at the State-houfe (Stadens arrejt-hus) there were nine perfons confined for crimes, and eleven for debt. The female criminals were at work in their fcveral apartments, which I obferved to be clean : but the rooms of the male criminals were dirty and offenfive. The allowance granted them is three marks (24 pence) a week. There are in this prifon feveral arched damp dungeons. — A refident chaplain reads prayers to the prifoners twice every day.

The Blue-tower (the prifon for the bailiwick and fervants of the court) confifts of four fmall rooms, on three floors. There were in it eight men and two women: their allowance is two-pence a day, with which they purchafe what they pleafe of the gaoler, who keeps a public houfe, and has a falary from the court. Here, as well as in the prifon at the State-houfe, I could not but obferve the neatnefs of the women, whofe rooms were a contrail to thofe of the men.\ The reafon is, that the gaolers wives infpeft the apartments of their own fex, and are more attentive than their hufbands.

The Sic cl-has is near-the ramparts. Here criminals from the garrifon, and convi6ts from the different claffes of the people are condemned to flavery. On one lide of the court belonging to this prifon there are two rooms on the ground-floor, each of which, though only ten feet high, has two tiers of barrack-beds. Thefe rooms being crowded, are unhealthy. Over them there are two clofe rooms for the fick; and alfo a chapel, which has no gallery, the cicling being very low. Here I faw a hundred and forty-three (laves, who were diftinguifhed by a brown coat with red fleeves, and breeches

* Count	Struenjee having been confined above three months, when he firft came out, though

in view of a terrible death, he exclaimed, “O how plcafant is frelh air ! ”

f The reverfe is corrtmon in England.

likewife

Digitized by

Google

DENMARK.

likewife of both colours.* Some had light chains on one leg, fome heavier Copenhagen.

wrifts to a wheel-barrow: and thefe I underftood, were punilhments inflicted upon thofe of them who had attempted to efcape, &c. f

On the other fide of the court and down ten fteps, there are feven arched dungeons about fifteen feet by feven, with one window eighteen inches by twelve, in which were eleven prifoners, who lay on barrack-beds.

The diftrefs and defpair in the pale and fickly countenances of thefe flaves were lhocking to humanity. My firft vifit was on Saturday j the next day I went t-o the fervice at the chapel, where, of the few that attended, the man chained to the wheel-barrow was one. They fat together on benches, and foldiers were properly placed at different parts of the chapel, and two, with bayonets fixed, flood at the door. Service being ended, the flaves firft pafled down. I then revifited their rooms, where moft of them lay on barracks, dirty beyond defcription. At my third vifit I found the prifon put into better order, and fwept. The offenfivenefs of this prifon always gave me a head-ach, fuch as I fuffered from my firft vifits to the	prifons.

These flaves work on the fortifications, and their time for working in fummer is from five to eleven, and from one to five or fix. Their allowance is feven pounds of black bread every five days, befides a pay of one Jliver a day in winter, and in fummer, when they work more hours, a Jliver and half. They were attended by a guard confifting of twenty foldiers. In returning from their work I obferved, that fome of them were chained to one another in pahs with loofe chains; thefe, I found, were fome of the worft, who had pafled under the hands of an executioner and were branded.

In the	Spin-houfethere were about three or four hundred prifoners forting, Spin-house.

carding, and fpinning wool, for the king’s manufactory in this city. J The

chains on both legs; others had iron collars. One was chained by his

Stoct-hus.

rooms

* They never pat off their clothes at night; and as they have new clothes only once in two years, and thofe very flight, I did not wonder to find many of them almoft naked.

+ I observed in the windows of this and two other prifons, an iron ring of about three inches diameter, on all the bars where they crofs each other at right angles, to prevent their being wrenched out.

J The king’s military cloth manufactory was built in 1760. It is four hundred and twenty-live feet long, and employs from five to fix hundred perfons. All the wool fpun in the feveral

houfes



APPENDIX.

Copenhagen Spin- house.

Almin-

DELIGE.

rooms are fpacious, but notwithftanding this they are clofe and offenfive, the windows being kept fhut. In the court I faw feveral fmall rooms, with one man in each, employed in either rafping or chopping logwood. Sixty-fix women were confined for life,* and all employed in carding and fpinning in one room. Separate rooms are afligned to the fick. The furgeon told me he apprehended one woman had the gaol-fever j but this probably was a miftake, for upon examining her pulfe I found it ftrong and quick.

In the	Almwdelige, or great hofpital, there are near a thoufand poor. The

length of one of the wings is two hundred and feventy-five feet. In a paflage (too narrow) fix feet wide, are feveral rooms, in each of which about ten or twelve perfons were employed, moftly in fpinning worfted.f Being allowed to keep all they can earn, they purchafe their own provifions according to regulations fettled by the directors. J There was a room or two which belonged

houfes of correction in the Datiijb dominions is brought to this manufactory. Great quantities, efpecially of the finer fort, intended for clothes for the officers, are fpun in the houfe here deferibed.

# See page 29, line 10.

f It was a hardfhip on the aged and infirm, to be obliged to fpin wool, when they had been long accuftomcd to fpin flax or hemp, which is alfo cleaner.

X This being a good, though not common, mode of affiiting the poor, I here give the table of diet, with the regimen for the fick, as figned by the directors, and hung up.

Regulations of the price of provifions, fettled by the directors, January I, 1781. Sunday.	Soup of pork, beef, or lamb, with carrots, cabbage, or other vegetables, ac-

cording to the feafen : 1 pot, a Jkilling: 4 leds of beef, or 31b. of pork, a Jkilling.

N. B. A pot is about an Englilh quart : a Jkilling, a halfpenny : a lod, half an ounce. Mon day.	Grout made of Febmerjke grain, three quarters of a pet, a Jkilling. Iceland dried

cod, with fauce and muftard, a Jkilling.

Tuesday. Peafe foup, three quarters of a pot, a Jkilling. Beef and pork, as on Sunday. Wednesday. Grout made of buck-wheat and water, three quarters of a pot, a Jkilling. Thursday.	Coleworts cut fmall and boiled with beef, pork. Sc c. one pot, a Jkilling.

Friday.	Gray peafe prepared with vinegar and flour, three quarters of a pot, a Jkilling.

Saturday. As on Monday.

The cook lhall alfo keep and fell to the pocr, according to the regulations, bread, beer, butter, cheefc and herrings ; alfo Dar.ijh brandy at eighteen JkiUings a pot, provided that no perfon purchafe more than a Jkilling’s worth in a day.

Regimen

Digitized by

Google

DENMARK.

33

longed to a manufacturer, (a Scotch gentleman) whofe office it was to give out and take in their work, and to pay for it. There being no work-rooms, the bed-rooms were crowded. The fewers are properly detached from the reft of the houfe, and there is a pafiage to them from every ftory, by a gallery open onthefidesj which prevents the floors from being offenfive. The paflages of the feveral floors open into the galleries of the chapel, which is in the centre. The chaplain has fix rooms and a kitchen. He officiates on Sundays, and has a falary of three hundred dollars a year, (Danijh dollar 3s. 9d.) befides fome perquifites, but he has no other charge to attend. A clerk officiates at eight, every morning, and is allowed two dollars a week.

Frederick's hojptal, or the royal infirmary, is an elegant building, and has a fpacious area with pleafant walks for the patients. Many of the poor citizens are admitted and maintained gratis : others, on paying feven marks (nine-pence) a week, or if they have feparate rooms, fourteen. Thirty foldiers may alfo be admitted, who, if fingle, are obliged to give up their whole pay to the hofpital, and if married, half. The patients wear the clothes of the houfe. Each of them has a bed to himfelf; and their number was one hundred and forty-two men and eighty-five women. Of thefe, one hundred and fifty-eight were under the care of the phylician, and fixty-nine under the furgeon. Here, a proper feparation is made between thefe two forts of patients. The wards are not crowded; and it is the cuftom to white-walh them once every year. If this were universally praClifed in their hofpitals and prifons, it would have a very beneficial effeCt.

Sunday Dinner.

Monday.

Tuesday.

Wednesday.

Thursday.

Friday.

Saturday.

Regimen for the Sici.

Beef, mutton or lamb foup, with roots or greens, and four lodj of meat, or inltead of meat, whcaten bread and butter.

Grout of	Fehmerjte grain, with	butter and fweet milk.

Water-gruel, with fugar and vinegar.

Grout of buck-wheat, with butter and milk.

As on Sunday.

Barley or rice foup, with fugar, vinegar, and prunes, and a dice of wheaten bread, with butter and beef upon it.

As on Monday.

In cafe the phylician or furgeon finds it necelfary to change the diet of any patient, the cook mult prepare whatever is ordered, provided it does not exceed the value of the ufual regimen.—Boiling water, and water-gruel, mull be always ready night and day.—Patients are allowed no other proviiions but the above-mentioned, and are prohibited the ufe of fpirits and flrong liquors.—Dinner is at eleven, and fupper at fix.

LUNDING.	WENDT.	CORTSEN.

F	The

Copenhagen Alm 1N-

DELIGE.

Fred e rick’s Hospital.

Digitized by ^ooQie

34

APPENDIX.

Copenhagen F r ederick’s Hospital.

The	Diet ’Table	which was hung up in the Wards was as follows.

FULL DIET.

Dinner at One.

Sunday. Soup with forced meat balls;

veal cutlets; lamb or beef lteaks; paltry or pudding. Bread and beer.

Bready and beer or ale every day.

Monday. Bouillion-foup, with pearl barley ; veal or lamb fricafee.

Tuesday. Broth, with toalted wheaten bread and meat ; fifh roalted or boiled.

Wednesday. Bouillion-foup with rice; boiled veal, lamb or beef, with fpinach, four krout, cauliflower or carrots.

Thursday. Soup with bread dumplins, or green cole; broiled meat.

Friday. Soup with greens, eggs and toalted bread; beef and horfe-radilh.

Saturday. Rice milk ; filh or (leaks.

Supper at Seven.

Halty pudding with butter; bread and butter with eggs; beer.

Bready butter and beer every night.

Water-gruel with raifins, and toalted bread.

Hally pudding with butter; bread and butter and beer.

Soup of bread and beer.

Wine foup, with rice or Scotch barley. As on Monday.

Cherry-foup, with toalted bread.

C O M M O Dinner at Eleven.

Sunday. Soup, three pints, with beef four ounces, or lamb five ounces, with rice; rye bread half a pound ; beer a pint. Bready and beer or ale every day.

Monday. Soup and meat, with Scotch barley.

Tuesday. Soup and meat, with oat grits.

Wednesday. Soup and meat, with rice.

Thursday. Broth, with toalted bread and meat.

Friday. As on Monday.

Saturday. As on Tuefday.

N DIET.

Supper at Six.

Thick barley boiled in water with grits, a pint, with butter, quarter of an ounce ; rye bread, half a pound, and butter, half an ounce ; beer a pint.

Bready butter and beer every night.

Water-gruel, with wheaten bread, vinegar and fugar; or cherry-foup with wheaten bread and fugar.

Thick boiled barley with butter.

Water-gruel with wheaten bread, vinegar and fugar.

As on Tuefday.

Barley-foup with vinegar and fugar.

Rye flour and water halty pudding, or, as on Tucfday.

Each

Digitized by kjOOQle

DENMARK.

25

Each patient has for breakfaft two bifcaits and a pint of milk ; and weekly one ounce^ of congou tea, and half a pound of white fugar.

The foup fhall be well fupplied with vegetables according to the feafon.

For fuch patients as are confined to particular diet, the phyfician or furgeon, inflead of the ufual food, orders: veal-foup, cherry-foup, barley-foup, forrel, fpinage, afparagus, codlins, french plums, and wheaten bread.,

Broth and water-gruel is always ready for ufe.

July i, 1774.

BRAEM. JOHANNSSEN. BERGER. HOFMAN. ROTTBOLL. &c.

The	Marine Hofpital contained one hundred and fifty-feven patients, fepa-

rated from one another according to their different diforders. Their diet and regimen are the fame as in Frederick’s hofpital. Their beds have no curtains ; and in fine weather are carried out to be beat and aired. The wards are fpacious, and care is taken to keep them cleanly, by fweeping them twice every day, and walhing them once every week.

In the Hojpital for the education of poor children, there were two hundred and twenty-five boys ; almoft all of whom had cutaneous diforders and fickly countenances. I found no proper management here, and the rooms were clofe and dirty. When the director lhewed me the fick rooms, I told him, all the rooms were fick rooms.

In St. John’s Hofpital, which is the peft-houfe, and (lands half a mile from the city, there were about a hundred men and two hundred women. In each of two of the wards there were ten or twelve fmall rooms for the infane. Though the weather was warm, the windows were (hut ; a circumftance peculiarly bad for that fort of patients. The chaplain, who refides here in a neat houfe, favoured me with his company through fome of the wards. The reft I vifited with one of our countrymen, who had almoft forgot his mother tongue. The windows, though oppofite to one another, were of little u(e except for light. The houfe was clean; the floors fanded : and the beds neat.*

• At Copenhagen in the beginning of July 1781, I bought four forts of bread-, of the fineft I had 7 ounces for a Danijh Jliver (equal to 1 penny Englilli) ; of the fecond fort, 10 ounces; of the third fort, 20 ounces j of the fourth, exadtly two pounds.

F a

SWEDEN.

Digitized by

Google

Copenhagen

Frederick’s

Hospital.

Marine

Hospital.

Orphan-

house.

St. John’s Hospital.

3*

APPENDIX.

Stockholm.

SWEDEN.

In travelling through the country in	,	I obferved the houfes to be

much cleaner than thofe in Denmark; and this led me to hope I ftiould find the fame difference in the prifons} efpecially as I was told they were vifited every Saturday by an officer from the chancery. But I was difappointed, for I found them as dirty and offenfive as thofe in Denmark. Some of the prifons at Stockholm are near the water j the city, which ftands on feven iflands, being well adapted for that fituation. When I attended at the trials in the court of juftice in July, the want of frefh air, in confequence of the windows being fhut, affedted me fo much as to make me ill a confiderable time afterwards.

There are three prifons at Stockholm j one in the northern fuburbs, one in the	Jouthemt and	the other in the cityitfelf. Criminals while confined in thefe

prifons are not in irons. If the offence be capital, they are after condemnation fent to the great prifon (called	j	from	whence they may

appeal to parliament, which muft confirm the fentence before it can be executed.

The general mode of execution is by the axe. Women are beheaded on a fcaffold, which is afterwards fet on fire at the four corners, and confumed with the body. The prefent king has humanely abolifhed all torture, and ordered a dark cellar applied to this purpofe in the great prifon, to be bricked up.*

I was prefent four or five hours in one of the courts of juftice, when many civil and criminal caufes were tried. The burgomafter (with his gold chain) was feated at one end of a table, and on each fide four or five other magiftrates. The manner of fwearing a witnefs was by requiring him to put two fingers on a Bible and to pronounce the words of the oath deliberately after the burgomafter.—In fome caufes only one witnefs was fworn j in others, feveral j and

* The gaoler told me that agreeably to the king's order, the door-way had been bricked up. On my infilling, to fee the wall that I might be affured of the fatt, I found the cellar Hill open.

while

'Digitized by

Google

SWEDEN.

while one was under examination, the reft were not allowed to be prelent, except in trials for petty offences, when no oath was adminiftered.—In civil caufes, both plaintiffs and defendants prefented memorials, and fome were allowed counfel.—In a profecution of a man for beating his wife, I obferved that one of the fenior magiftrates pleaded the wife’s caufe, and then withdrew with the parties concerned in the profecution. The judge, having confulted a book of laws, called them in again ; and after hearing the law read and the fentence pronounced, they bowed and departed at different doors. I obferved in petty difputes, a reconciliation fo hearty fometimes taking place, that the contending parties fhook hands, and went off together fhedding tears of joy.

In the prifon called Norr Kiamnars Rfor the northern fuburbs (which are* four times as large as the city itfelf), there are two juftice-rooms and fix other rooms. It had in it only three prifoners. The allowance, fix Jlivers per day.

In the prifon for the Jouthem diftrid	Kiamnars Ratty there were alfo

fix rooms; four of which, having their windows nailed up, were very dark, dirty and offenfive. Here were five prifoners almoft ftifled, in confequence of receiving no air except through a fmall aperture in the door of each room. The other two rooms were light and airy, and are fometimes ufed as an infirmary.

The gaoler here, as in the other prifons, fells liquors. His room, like thofe 1 have too often feen in my own country, was full of idle people who were drinking.

In the prifon for the city, called St ads Kiamnars Ratty the rooms were very dirty, and the windows of all, except one, were fliut. The countenances of the prifoners befpoke negled and opprefilon. Here were two rooms appropriated to criminals condemned for a certain term, to bread and water. In one of thefe rooms there were two perfons, who feemed almoft ftarved, being allowed only fix Jiivers worth of bread, (2d) per day, and that fold them by an unfeeling gaoler.*

* Seeing thefe miferable objedts thankful for a fmall donation of bread, I faid to the goalcr, “ a fentence for twenty-eight days mull be very fevere.” He replied, “ it is good for their health.*’ I can make a good conjecture of the ltate of a prifon, from the countenances of the prifoners : complacency and fubmiflion appear under kind treatment, even though the apartments be bad, and the allowance fcanty.

There

Digitized by

Google

<37

Stockholm.

Norr Kiamnars Ratt.

Soder Kiamnars Ratt.

Stads Kiamnars IJatt.

APPENDIX.

38 *

Stockholm. There is here no chapel; nor are the prifoners ever allowed to leave their noxious cells. I obferved coffins are kept ready for the dead.

Shed-	The	Smed-garden	(to	which criminals are fent after condemnation) is a brick

garden. building in an airy fituation. It has a court inclofed with high planks (or palifades). In one of the rooms on one fide of this court, I faw two barrack beds and three men loaded with irons. Their allowance is fix	day,	with

which they may purchafe what they pleafe. Two worth of bread weighed exactly twelve ounces.

On the other fide of the court is the chapel, and the apartments of the women, where I faw five prifoners at needle-work, but none in irons j and, I was informed, the women are never put into irons.

There was a bed in the chapel, where the convift refts till his execution, which is fometimes three weeks : two days before this, his irons are taken off.

The men are allowed to walk in the court from eight to nine, and from four to five : the women are allowed the fame privilege, but at different times.

Debtors- The prifonfor debtors is in the city, and confifis of two rooms on the firft prison. floor and two over them. Here were fixteen , and one woman. The rooms being all open, they affociate with one another as they pleafe.* The allowance to each is lix Jlivers a day paid by their creditors: on default of payment they are releafed.

This prifon being in a clofe part of the city, is one of the moll unhealthy. But, I was informed, it is to be removed to a more airy fituation in the Jouthern fuburbs.

Spin-house. The Spin or Rajp-houjehas an infcription over the door, Stockholms Stad Spin och Rafp bus. An. 1750. It Hands on a declivity, at the extremity of the fuburbs, and near a lake.

The number of prifoners was a hundred and eighty; twenty or twenty-five of whom I faw in a room, forting, carding, or fpinning wool ; every prifoner is obliged to fpin two pounds and a half (equal to about three thoufand ells)

• One advantage which arifes from the feparation of prifoners is, that it prevents taking garfiijh : this, thougli a conftant praftice here, is not common in foreign prifons.

of

\

Digitized by ^ooQie

SWEDEN.

39

of yarn in a day: all that is done by any prifoners more than this, they are paid for, at the rate of two /livers a pound j and, as a farther reward, they become entitled to an abridgment of their term of confinement in proportion to their diligence.

The women's apartments were clean j but the countenances of the men and boys were fickly, and their rooms dirty and offenfive. The men were not feparated from the boys as they fhould have been, nor the women from the girls.

The rooms employed as an infirmary were clean, and ftrewed with the young fhoots of the fpruce fir : it had in it five fick women, and five or fix conva-lefcents.

On inquiry, I found the /curvy was a prevailing diforder here, efpecially in Auguft; which, I doubt not, is owing to clofe confinement, to the want of cleanlinefs, and to the ufe of falt-filh and other fait provifions. Some precautions are ufed againft this diforder, for the prifoners at their admifiion are examined by the furgeons; after which they are required to bathe themfelves, and to continue this as a pradtice twice a month.

They attend prayers in the hall of the Spin-houfe every day j in fummer, at fix in the morning and feven in the evening; and in winter, at eight and four.

A person in the office of an infpeftorhas a convenient houfe here, with a falary of 501	.perAnnum, which is large for this country, and four times more

than the falary of the keeper. I am perfuaded of the impropriety of trufting fuch eftablifhments to the care of interefted men.* Neither the condition of the wards, nor the appearance of the prifoners, did this infpedtor any credit.

I visited feveral charitable inftitutions in this city, but I will mention only the hofpttal for the fick. There were in it thirty-two patients. In the largeft of the rooms there were only feven beds : a diftindt bed was allotted to each patient, and all was clean and neat. Two of the rooms were appropriated to venereal patients. The floors, as in the other hofpitals and in moft of the private houfes were ftrewed with the young fhoots either of the fpruce fir or juniper tree. Having afked the reafon, one of the furgeons told me, “ it was done to prevent infedtion.” I attended Mr.	the	principal	furgeon

• We mud look for humanity, care and attention, only in thofe houfes where there are not refident infpedtors with large falarics, as in Holland, Switzerland, Hamburg, &c.

Stockholm Spin-house.

through

Digitized by

t

40

APPENDIX.

Stockholm

Hospital.

through the wards, and faw him drefs the patients. Three or four pupils afiifted, and four other attendants; one of whom was a woman carrying a bafon of water.*

RUSSIA.

In Rujfia the peafants and fervants arc bondmen or (laves, and their lords (or matters) may inflift on them any corporal punifhment j or banifh them to Siberia on giving notice of their offence to the police. But they are not permitted to put them to death. Should they, however, die by the feverity of their punilhment, the penalty of the law is eafily evaded, j*

Debtors in this country are often employed as Jlaves by government, and allowed twelve roubles^ yearly wages, which goes towards difcharging the debt.JI In fome cafes of private debts, if any perfon will give fufficient fe-curity to pay twelve roubles a year, as long as the (lave lives, or till the debt is paid off j as alfo to produce the (lave when he is demanded j fuch perfon may take him out of confinement: but if he fails to produce him when demanded, is liable to pay the whole debt immediately.

* The feveral forts of bread in Stockholm were exattly according to the The fine white, i lb.	1

Second fort,	i lb. 9 j oz. >for 2 pence

The coarfeit, near 41b.	J

t Instances, however, of great attachment of peafants to their lords, in confequence of good, treatment, are not uncommon. A gentleman was lhewn me at	whofe peafants,

hearing of his intention to fell his eftate, brought him all the money they had faved, and gave it him, upon condition that he Ihould keep his land, and Hill continue to be their mailer.

J One hundred copecks is a rouble, and a rouble about four ihillings.

|| An impraflicable fcheme has been advanced by a late author -to oblige debtors in England to work off their debts by their own labour. The Marquis	in his former editions of

his EJfay on Crimes and Punijkments, had propofed fome fuch fcheme ; but in the third edition he acknowledged his miilake, and confefl'ed that he had injured the rights of humanity, and was afhamed that he had adopted fo cruel an opinion.

There

Digitized by

Google

RUSSIA.

4i

There are no regular gaolers appointed in RuJJia, but all the prifons are guarded by the military. Little or no attention is paid to the reformation of prifoncrs.*

There is no capital punifhment for any crime but trcafori : but the common punifhment of the knoot is often dreaded more than death, and fometimes a criminal has endeavoured to bribe the executioner to kill him. This punifhment feldom caufes immediate death, but death is often the confequence of it.

The governor of the police at Peterjburg was fo kind as to fix a time for fhew-ing me all the inftruments commonly ufed for punifhment—the axe and block—the machine (now out of ufe) for breaking the arms and legs—the inftrument for flitting or lacerating the noftrils —and that for marking criminals, (which is done by pun&uation, and then rubbing a black powder on the wounds)—the	knoot whip—and another	called the cat, which confifts

of a number of thongs from two to ten.

The knoot whip, is fixed to a wooden handle a foot long, and confifts of feveral thongs about two feet in length twifted together, to the end of which is fattened a fingle tough thong of a foot and half, tapering towards a point, and capable of being changed by the executioner, when too much foftened by the blood of the criminal.

August 10, 1781, I faw two criminals, a man and a woman, fufter the punifhment of the knoot. They were conducted from prifon by about fifteen huflars and ten foldiers. When they arrived at the place of punifhment, the huflars formed themfelves into a ring round the whipping-poft, the drum beat a minute or two, and then fome prayers were read, the populace taking off their hats. The woman was taken firft ; and after being roughly ftript to the waift, her hands and feet were bound with cords to a poll made for the purpofe, a man {landing before the poft, and holding the cords to keep them tight. A

* In the inftrudtions for a new code of laws by the prefent Emprcfs, however, a very juft and humane diftindtion is made between prifoners of different claffes. “ One ought not to <c confine in the fame pface, i. an accufed perfon, againft whom there are only appearances, “ 2. a convidl, 3. a criminal who is condemned to prifon as a punifhment. The accufed per-€t fon is only detained; the two others are imprifoned: but with refpedt to the former of them, t€ the prifon is only a part of punilhment; with refpeft to the latter, it is the punilhment itfelf.”

lnftruttion% Art, CLXXI.

G	fervant

Digitized by

Google

Russia*

Petersburg.

Knoot.

4*

APPENDIX.

Petersburg

Knoot.

Fortress.

PolicePrison.

New Government Prison.

fervant attended the executioner, and both were ftout men. The fervant firffc marked his ground and {truck the woman five times on the back. Every ftroke feemed to penetrate deep into her flefh. But his matter thinking him too gentle, pufhed him afide, took his place, and gave all the remaining ftrokes himfelf, which were evidently more fevere. The woman received twenty-five, and the man fixty: I preffed through the huffars, and counted the number as they were chalked on a board; and both feemed but juft alive, efpecially the man, who yet had ftrength enough to receive a fmall donation with fome figns of gratitude. They were conducted back to prifon in a little waggon. I faw the woman in a very weak condition fome days after, but could not find the man any more.

In the Fortrejs there are many vaulted rooms, fome of which are now ufed for the confinement of deferters, and criminals of various forts, who work on the fortifications. Some were glad of the privilege of being employed in the governor’s garden, for the fake of the flour which he gave them for their labour. Others, with logs to their legs, were drawing wood out of the Neva. Thirty-five were crowded into one of the rooms, which therefore was exceffively hot, having only two fmall apertures (ten inches by nine) for the admiflion of air. In another part of this building, feventy-five (laves with logs fattened to both their legs, were lodged in four rooms, which were ftill more clofe and offenfive. In a few rooms (ufed as barracks,) fome officers were confined. Every room was furnifhed with an oven or ftove, and moft of them with barrack-beds.

In the Police prifon there were in one room nine , and in two other rooms forty-four men. In two fmall and low arched cellars (very hot and offenfive,) I faw fifteen men, moft of them in irons. In a room called the infirmary, detached from the reft of the prifon, there were feven perfons fick. All the prifoners fubfift on voluntary contributions, collected in boxes before their grates, and at church. This is all the advantage they derive from the church near the prifon, for they are never permitted to enter it, or to go out of their rooms j except on particular occafions with guards of foldiers.

In the New government prifon behind the courts of juftice, there are barracks for the guard-near the rooms of confinement. The number of prifoners was

fixty-

Digitized by

Google

RUSSIA.

43

fixty-eight, including two confined for debt, and twenty-feven male and female vagrants and petty offenders, all crowded together into one little room.

In the fuburbs is a prifon, confifling of feveral timber houfes, furrounded with high palifades. In one houfe I faw twenty-five prifoners, in another five or fix, all with irons on both legs. Some were out at work, and the whole number was near eighty. Many were boys of twelve or fifteen years of age. In the middle there was a kitchen, in which there was an oven and many loaves of bread for the prifoners,. like that for the foldiers. They feemed under clofe confinement, though there is a large court in which they might be allowed to walk with fafety.

The prifon for debtors confifts of four vaulted rooms communicating with one another, and furnifhed with ftoves and barrack-beds. The prifoners are never permitted to go out of their rooms. They fubfift by alms received from paffengers in little boxes placed before the windows j but government fupplies them with wood for fuel. One told me, he had been confined for five years, for a debt of fifteen roubles j and another, four years for twenty-five roubles.	•	*

A Spin-house (or houfe of correction)is building in this city, fituated near the river. It is an elegant, though plain building, with fifty-feven windows in front, and two galleries at the back-front fupported by pillars. There is an afcent of a few fteps to the firft floor j all the ftaircafes are ftone (five feet wide); the rooms are about thirty-three feet by twenty-three j the windows fix feet from the floor j the cielings are lofty, in the middle of which are apertures fourteen inches fquare j and the roof confifts of thin iron plate.

I vilited feveral hofpitals in this city with pleafure, the rooms, even of the infane, being as clean as thofe in Holland: but I fhall mention only two or three.

The hofpital for foldiers, and the marine hofpital, form a great quadrangle, built chiefly of brick in a morafs near the Neva. The Military hofpital confifts of twenty-eight fpacious rooms, befides two or three anatomical rooms in which ledlures are read. There is a chapel in the centre, but it is in a ruinous ftate, having been left unfinilhed, becaufe the builder had hanged himfelf in it.

G 2	At

Digitized by

Google

Petersburg,

Prison.

Debtors

Prison.

Spin-house.

Military

Hospital.



	APPENDIX.
P F. rCUSBURO l\l IL1TARY  Hospital.	At a little diftance in a large area or field inclofed with wooden palifades, there are fourteen or fifteen houfes conftru<5ted of wood, about eighty feet by twenty-one; in each of which there are forty or forty-five beds or cradles, admitting one patient only. The centre houfe has fourteen fmall rooms opening into a clofe pafiage, and very offenfive.
Mari ne Hospital.	The Admiralty or Marinehofpital has two floors. The rooms open into a gallery under arcades, and are clean and airy, having windows oppofite to one another, and on one fide looking towards the Neva. Four of thefe rooms were occupied, and in one of them there were forty beds, each admitting only one patient.  At the back of this hofpital, in an area or garden inclofed by palifades, is a row of feven fummer rooms for convalefcents, each a feparatc building, feventy feet by twenty-fix. They were clean and fweet, and ftrewed with the young Ihoots of the fpruce fir.  In the centre building there are rooms for warming water for bathing; as there were alfo in the military hofpital. Bathing is the conftant pradtice of the Ruffians.  This provifion of fummer *room6 is a wife expedient peculiar to , and deferves the higheft commendation. By the conftant fucceflion of patients the walls of other hofpitals are contaminated; but in Ruffia, by lodging patients in thefe fummer rooms, the hofpitals are left to be frefhened and purified.
Convent.	On a rifing ground at a little diftance from Peterjburg, and on the fouth fide of the river Neva, there is a {lately pile of buildings, originally defigned for a Convent, but ever fince 1764 converted by the Emprefs Catharine the Second, into a public eftablilhment for educating the female nobility of Ruffia, and a limited number of the children of commoners. The fleeping rooms and dining-halls in thefe buildings are remarkably lofty and airy, having large galleries round them; and adjoining to the buildings there are fpacious gardens and lawns, which extend to the banks of the river.—The number of the children of nobility on this eftablifhment is two hundred; and the number of the children of commoners or peafants was, till 1770, limited to two hundred and forty: but fince this year it has been increafed to two hundred and eighty, by a fund provided by the munificence of general Be Betjloi, the enlightened and liberal head and direflor-general of this, and all the other inftitutions of the fame kind eftablifhed by her imperial majeffy.  The  1

Digitized by LjOOQie

RUSSIA.

45

The principal regulations for conducting this inftitution are the following.— The children are admitted between five and fix years of age, and continued on the eftablilhment twelve years. They are divided into dalles according to their ages, four of nobles with fifty in each clafs, and four of commoners with feventy in each clafs.—In every third year on the 21ft of April, (the birth-day of theEmprefs,) fifty children of the nobil, and feventy of commoners are taken in, to replace the fame numbers difcharged.—Before they rife every morning, the windows of their rooiYis are thrown open to purify them with frefh air.— The firjl clafs (drefied in brown, and confiding of children of the youngeft ages,) rife at feven in winter, and at fix in fummer.—After being walked and attending prayers, they are taken into the garden where they breakfaft, and •play about in the coldeft weather till nine. During their firft year, each of them is allowed for breakfaft, a fmall loaf of white bread, and a glafs of milk and water; but after their firft year, they are allowed no other drink than water.—At nine they are called back to the houfe, and from this hour to eleven are employed in learning the French and Ruffian languages, and in knitting, fewing &c. but care is taken to render all the inftru&ion they receive agreeable, nothing being taught in this eftablilhment by compulfion.— Twice in the week they receive lelfons in dancing; and this is a part of education common to all the dalles, and never difcontinued, b£caufe reckoned conducive to health.—After eleven they return to their play in the garden, where they continue till noon, at which time they are called to dinner, which confifts of foup, vegetables &c. For fome months at firft they are allowed meat; but they are gradually weaned from it, till at laft, while in this and the next clafs, it comes to be entirely withheld from them (except in foups,) in order to cure them of fome cutaneous diftempers to which at this age they are fub-je<ft, and alfo to prepare them for palling with lefs danger through the hooping-cough, mealies and fmall-pox. After dinner they return to the garden, and at four, have a repaft fimilar to that in the morning, viz. a loaf of bread and a glafs of water. Here they continue to divert themfelves till at feven they are called to fupper, which confifts in winter of dried fruit, milk and grain; and in fummer of preparations of milk, and fome provifions from the garden.—It may be proper to add, that they read and write Handing, and are not allowed to fit down, except to needle-work.—In confequence of this management, and of living fo much in the air, and being ufed to e^ercife, and cleanlinefs and a fimple diet, they are feldom known to take cold; and

become

Digitized by

Google

Petersburg

Convent.

46	APPENDIX.
Petersburg  Convent.	become capable of bearing the fevered weather of the climate without receiving any harm, their clothing being only a fhort wadded cloak, whilft others are loaded with furs.  The fecond clafs (drefied in blue) enter it about eight years of age, and are obliged to apply more clofely to writing, drawing, dancing &c.  The third clafs (drefied in grey) enter it at eleven or twelve years of age. They rife at five, in the fummer, and fix, in winter; but are called to the houfe (after breakfaftirig in the garden,) an hour fooner than the children in the firft and fecond clafies j becaufe more time is wanted for inftrufting and improving them. They are now taught (befides drawing, dancing, turning,* needle-work &c.) vocal and inftrumental mufic. They are allowed a ball and concert every week; and a tafte for books is infpired, by putting them upon copying and reciting feleft pafifages from the belt authors.  The fourth clafs (drefied in white) enter it at fourteen or fifteen years of age. They are taught tambour-work, houfe-keeping, the management of a family &c. and initiated into hiftorv, geography and natural philofophy. In order to acquire a juft elocution, and to exercife themfelves in politenefs, and vocal and inltrumental mufic, they occafionally give balls and little operas to company from Peterjburg.  The children of the nobility and of commoners are diftinguilhed from one another, only by wearing a finer camlet of the colours appropriated to the different clafies and as far as diet, exercife, regimen &c. are concerned, the method of managing them is the fame; but the inftrudtion given the latter, is confined to needle-work, reading, houfe-keeping and fuch other occupations and improvements as are fuitable to the humbler walks of life, for which they are intended.  The children on this foundation enjoy, as might be expefted, an uncommon degree of health.—Of fifty-one children of nobility admitted in 1764, and fifty admitted in 1767, and fifty-two in 1770, none had died in 1781 j and of fifty admitted at different times, by the particular order of the between 1764 and 1780, only two had died in 1781.—Of fixty children alfo of commoners admitted in 1767, and feventy in 1770, only feven had died in 1781. But of fixty admitted in 1764, thirteen had died ; in confequence, it
	• I was obliged to the ladies for a very curious piece of their work in ivory, which was prefented to me on my vifit to this houfe.

is

Digitized by v^ooQie

47

\

RUSSIA.

is fuppofed, of having been lodged in a part of the buildings which had been juft ere&ed, and therefore was not fufficiently dry.—This account I owe to the obliging information of Dr. Guthrie, phyfician to a military cadet corps of nobles, eftablifhed at Peterjburg by the	and	fuppofed	the

grandeft inftitution of the kind in the world.

At Cronfiadt (or Crownjlade) the principal ftation for {hipping, the flaves were lodged in feveral rooms, inclofed by palifades, and guarded by an officer with a hundred foldiers, who attend them while at work. In the rooms, there were only two, who were fick : the reft were removing the ballaft flung out of the {hips. They had healthy countenances, and were robuft and ftrong, though their diet feemed fcanty.—The following is their allowance from government: to each for diet, 724- pounds of rye flour, (about 65 pounds*) 74. pounds of barley or buck-wheat, and two pounds of fait, every month.—For clothing, a fheep-fkin pelijf;coarfe cloth coat, waiftcoat and breeches; woollen hat and fur cap, and a pair of drawers every two years ; and every year, fixteen arjhins (about i2f yards) of coarfe linen for {hirts and thin drawers j three pair of {lockings, three pair of {hoes, two pair of fur gloves, and a pair of fheep-fkin cangees.f Fuel alfo is allowed by government.

The number of flaves, malefafrors and debtors is in general about two hundred, but in November 1781, their number was only one hundred and fifty-one, viz. flaves indebted to government and malefactors, thirty-four ; debtors, and peafants fent by their lords for crimes and mifdemeanors on their eftates, one hundred and feventeen.

I will fay nothing of the prifon here, becaufe I faw the ground marked out for a new one, which is to be ereCted under the fuperintendence of our attentive and judicious countryman Admiral	Greig.

• The French prifoners in England have been defirous of having their allowance in flour, that they might make their own bread, as the Rujfian flaves do, who alfo, both here and at the fortrefs, make for themfelves a fermented liquor called quafs, two barrels of which I faw in the rooms.

+ The expence for every Have is twelve roubles a year; namely, for diet, eight roubles and fifty-two copecks; for clothes, three roubles and forty-eight copecks. I owe this account to the kindnefs of Admiral Greig.

In

Digitized by

Google

Petersburg

Convent.

Cronst a m .

43

APPENDIX.

Cronstadt

Hospital.

Wyschnei

WOLOTSCHOK,

Tver.

Moscow

Prison.

In the bojpital at Cronjladt, built by Peter the Great, and intended by him for a palace, there were many fpacious rooms, all perfe&ly clean, with eight or ten beds in every room, each bed admitting one patient only. Two hundred and feventeen of the patients were failors ; and on their beds were marked the names of the fhips to which they belonged. Books were hung up at the doors of the rooms, containing an account of the numbers of the beds, the prefcriptions, diet &c.

At a little diftance from this building, there are feven rooms for conva-lefcents and fcorbutic patients, feventy-two feet in length and twenty-three in breadth. Four of them were occupied, one of which had in it fifty-five beds, and the reft almoft as many. The kitchen and bake-houfe were feparate buildings; and the bread appeared to be wholefome and good. There was here alfo a room for the hot, or vapour baths, which are common in Ruj}ia> and which undoubtedly conduce greatly to the health, as well as the clean-linefs of the inhabitants.

August 22, 1781, the number of patients in this hofpital was five hundred and fifteen. Thofe attended by furgeons were feparated from the reft, and the appearance of all of them fhewed plain proofs of the care and attention paid them. An officer vifits the hofpital every day, and makes a report to the admiral. .

At	Wyfchnei Wolotjcbok the prifon is in the fuburbs, conftrufted of wood,

and inclofed with palifades of thick planks. Here were fixteen prifoners employed on the public works, all but one, in irons j two were loaded with irons on their legs, and chained together by the neck.

In the prifon at 1“ver there were twenty-fix prifoners. The rooms were fo offenfive, that a medical gentleman did not chufe to look into more than one of them. It is a new prifon, but I hope not a model for others, as has been reported. The prifoners in it, and likewife in the prifon laft mentioned, fub-fift on charitable contributions.

The great prifon or OJlrog at Mojcow is in the fuburbs.* In the firft room of a brick building there are four wooden cages,' in which were two men

• I am obliged to Mr. Dickinfon for a drawing of this prifon, and of the botanic magazine.

chained

Digitized by

Google

RUSSIA.

49

chained by the neck to the wall, with irons on their legs. At the fides of this room there were feveral rooms for the examination and punifhment of criminals.

At the back of this building is a court fixty feet wide, with a guard-houfe in it and fix rooms for confinement.

The main prifon, on the outfide, is two hundred and eighty feet by two hundred and forty-four. It is inclofed with ftrong pieces of timber fixteen or eighteen feet high. The entrance from the court juft mentioned leads into a walk (twenty-four feet wide,) on one fide of which there are three other courts, and four on the oppofite fide of different dimenfions. In thefe courts there are a number of wooden houfes confifting of one, two or three rooms; every room having barrack-bedfteads or ffielves in it,, and an iron latticed door, with another of wood. In two of the courts there are fmall rooms or chapels, where divine fervice is read. The whole number of prifoners in September 1781 was feventy-four. There is a diftindt court and two rooms appropriated to women, in which were ten, but none in irons. The doors of the houfes were open to allow the prifoners to walk in the courts; except the houfes in the two upper courts, where, in a building occupied only by himfelf, I faw a Ruffian gentleman who was always locked upj and whofe crime, I was informed, had been cruelly whipping his flaves.

One centinel flood at each corner of this prifon, one at the centre of the front, three in the middle walk, and two at the entrance. In the walk there is a Hied or hut for the fale of quafs,* apples and bread; and on the outfide of the door many boxes to receive the alms of paffengers j the prifoners fub-fifting chiefly by charitable contributions, f

At the New government in a large room on the ground-floor, there were fixty-nine prifoners, of whom fourteen were women. They were petty offenders, fubfifted on charitable donations, and looked dirty and fickly. In a room up flairs I faw eight criminals with irons round their necks, chained with a heavy chain to a log. In each of the rooms a foldier flood with a drawn fword in his hand.

* This favourite liquor of the Ruffians is a fort of four fmall beer, in making which wild mint is ufed inftead of hops.

t The prifoners here, \vho_are condemned to the mines in Siberia, three days before their departure go chained through the ftreets, crying for charity, to fupport them on their journey, their allowance being fmall.

H	The

Moscow

Prison.

New

Government

Prison.

Digitized by <^»ooQle

5°

APPENDIX.

Moscow  Debtors  Prison.	The prifon for debtors in this city was very dirty. In five rooms I faw above a hundred miferable wretches lying on the floors, moft of them half naked. At a little diftance from thele rooms there were fix criminals in one of the moft offenfive rooms I ever entered.
Military  Prison.	The Military prifon is fituated in the middle of a plain at about a mile from this city. It is a fingle room, into which were crowded one hundred and thirty priloners, though only twenty-nine feet by twenty-fix, and not nine feet high. It is conftrufted of wood, furrounded with wooden palifades, and furnilhed with two tier of barrack-bedfteads without beds. The pale fickly countenances of the prifoners befpoke oppreflion and mifery, and prevented the wonder I fhould have otherwife felt at finding fo large a number as fifty-five in the ward appropriated to the fick, in the military hofpital. A centinel was planted at each corner, and two at the door. On the outfide of the palifades there were two or three other buildings or barracks, in one of which were confined nine officers, but they had beds.
Catherine  Hospital  Prison.	At the back of Catherine hofpital in the invalids court, in confiding only of one room, there were fifty-two men and feventeen women. The women were employed in weeding in the garden, and the men in emptying a moat at a palace about half a mile from the prifon. They had no irons, but were diftinguifhed by a black crofs on the back of their clothes. They work from morning till night, except for two hours about noon, and are allowed three copecks worth of bread in a day ; but fait is withheld from them by way of punifhment.  One of my vifits happening to be on a Sunday, I was furprized to find the prifoners all at work j fome piling and planking the canal, others cutting the barberry hedges in the palace garden, and the women weeding.
Convent  Prison.	At a Convent about a mile out of the city, there is a room which is ufed as a prifon for petty offenders, in which there were two men and five women. The former were employed in fawing wood, and the latter were at work in the palace garden. Their drink was water, and their allowance of bread four Ruffian pounds each every day.
Lazaretto.	Here is a palace unoccupied, which was ufed as a , in the time of the plague in 1772, confifting of near a hundred rooms round a court} the  corridors

Digitized by v^ooQie

RUSSIA.

corridors or paflages are about nine feet wide. On going over it, I could not but think it was well adapted for a healthy prifon, the court being fpacious, the fituation near the river, and the rooms, of a proper fize.

The Military	hofpital,founded by Peter the Great, is finely fituated on a

riling ground near a river. On the ground-floor there are four lofty and fpacious rooms; in two of which there were eighty-eight patients, the other two were repairing. Over thefe rooms there are two anatomical rooms, and a third room in which leftures are read four times in a week.—Adjoining is a wooden building for lunatics, confiding of twelve rooms (fifteen feet by twelve and a half,) and a back room to each for a keeper. There are alfo fevcral houfes for the director, phyfician, furgeons, apothecary &c. At a little greater diftance, but on a more elevated fpot, there is a large quadrangular buiiding, in which were upwards of four hundred patients, each room containing about thirty beds. In one part of this building there were fifty-five patients from the military prifon.—At my firft vifit the wards were dirty and offenfive; but in a fubfequent vifit the phyfician favoured me with his company, and I found them much cleaner. I flung open fome of the windows in one large ward, and this purified it more than all the fhoots of fir with which the rooms were ftrewed.*

* On converfing with the phyfician, concerning the treatment of the fick when the plague was at Mofcow in 1772, he faid, <€ it was nearly the fame with ours in the gaol-fever, viz. “ bark and good broths, with as much air as partible.”

The late Sir John Pringle, Prcfident of the Royal Society, in his difeourfe at the Anniverfary meeting, 30th November 1776, informs us at page 16, that 44 the late Dr. Mounfcy, F. R. S. 44 who had lived long in RuJJia, and had been Arcbiaier under two fucceflive fovereigns—hap* 44 pening to be at Mofconv when he perufed the Obfervations on the Jail-fever—was induced to 44 compare what he read in that treatife with what he fhould fee in the feveral prifons of that 44 large city : but to his furprize, after vifiting them all, and finding them full of malefa&ors 44 (for the late Emprefs then fuffered none—to be put to death) he could difeover no fever 44 among them, nor learn that any acute diftemper peculiar to jails had ever been known " there.—Upon his return to St. Peterjburg, he made the fame inquiry there, and with the fame 44 refult.”

In this ancient capital of RuJJia, I found no traces of any fuch prifons or dungeons as were common, formerly in the cartles of England, and in feveral foreign countries (fee Burnys 7*ft ice, under gaol and gaoler, 8vo. edit. 1780, vol. II. p. 345.) That cruel mode of confinement in many of our prifons, has been a principal caufe of the gaol-fever. I faw no fymptoms of the gaol-fever in Mofcovj, or in any part of RuJJia.

H 2	In

51

Moscow

Lazaretto.

Military

Hospital.

Digitized by u.ooQie

52

APPENDIX.

Moscow Botanic M A C A 21 N £ .

Paulowski

Hospital.

Catherine Hospital.

In the garden is a building conftru&ed of wood, for drying herbs, plants &c. many of which grow there. It is the completeft houfe for the purpofe I ever faw (eighty-one feet by twenty-eight.) A variety of plants were drying on the ground-floor, and fix or feven men were employed in cleaning them, and in cutting roots. The firft floor was divided into two rooms, in which were many double cafes, or drawers, (the upper, half as large as the under ones) painted green, with the names of the roots and herbs they contained. The room over thefe, was full of herbs drying on poles; and in a balcony over the portico (fix feet and a half wide) herbs, roots, and feeds are dried. All the windows and fhutters in the houfe, and the lids of the cafes, were open. Thofe herbs which were dry, were as green as when they were firfl; gathered.

Paulowfki hofpital is fituated on an airy fpot about a mile from the city. The entrance is by a flight of feven Heps. It is built of wood, and only one ftory high, confifting of feven rooms, two of them large, and all clean and neat.—Very near,' flood a building for venereal patients; but a more convenient building for fuch patients is juft finifhed, containing fix airy and fpacious rooms hung with coarfe painted linen. The apothecary lives in this hofpital; and the diredlor and two furgeons in neat houfes in the fpacious court belonging to it, adjoining to which there is a large garden.

Catherine hofpital confifts of feveral houfes of one ftory; which being built round an elegant court, and painted white, have a pleafing effedt. The afcent is three feet and a half.* There are in thefe buildings twelve rooms hung with paper and clean, with a number of beds not exceeding feven or eight in each room. A feparate bed is allotted to every patient.—Thermometers are kept in the rooms of this and other hofpitals, but the heat of the air was many degrees above that which the furgeon faid was the proper temperature, (ten degrees of Reaumur's,) all the windows being fhut. There are alfo fmall ventilators in the windows; but they can be of little ufe unlefs the windows

* The foundation of this and Paulo'ivfki hofpital being ftone, and elevated conflderably above the level of the ground, I obferved feveral apertures (twelve inches by feven) in the ftone work, for caufing a circulation of air under the floors. If apertures were alfo made in the floors>v they would be conducive to the health of the patients by freftiening and airing the rooms.

are

Digitized by k^ooQie

POLAND.

/

are daily opened.—I was pleafed to fee in every room of thefe hofpitals a tin or pewter cifterny over a copper	bafon, with towels; and wifhed there were the

fame attention to cleanlinefs in all our hofpitals.

Here were feveral rooms with beds for inoculated patients; but none of them had been occupied for fome time. Here were alfo feparate buildings for venereal patients. Adjoining, is another court in which there are feveral rooms, tolerably clean, for old military invalids. Their number was about eighty, and fome of them had ferved as foldiers under Peter the Great.—At the front of this hofpital are two pumps, by which, in cafe of fire, water may be eafily raifed to the top of the buildings.

I repeatedly vifited the great Foundling hofpital in this city at the particular defire of the good general De Betjkoi; but having given a defcription of the convent at St. Peterjburg, which may be thought fomewhat of a digrefiion from my fubjed, I refer my readers to Mr.	pamphlet	for	an	account	of	this

hofpital.*

POLAND.

In WarJaWt at the	eFown-boufey in September 1781,	there were twenty-fix men Warsaw

and eight women, crowded into three rooms on the ground-floor for confining ^°pVRNISo°USE debtors; the reafon of which was, that the prifon was repairing. Down feveral fteps were eight new dungeons for criminals, four on each fide a paflage only fix feet wide. There was no gaoler, the prifon being guarded by foldiers.

At the prifon near the palace, in two rooms there were feven prifoners, five of them in irons. Allowance a good grojcbe a day, which is a little more than three halfpence.

Moscow

Catherine

Hospital.

*,The public is much obliged to Mr. Coxe, for the account he has given of his examination of the prifons and hofpitals in his tour through the northern parts of Europe, and for the many valuable remarks which he has made, in a pamphlet entitled. Account of the Prifons and Hofpitals in Rujjia, Sweden, and Denmark, Printed for T. Cadell. 1781.

The

Digitized by kjOOQle

54

APPENDIX.

Warsaw

Prisons.

ZuCTH-HUS.

Hospital.

The entrance to another prifon was through a guard-room full of foldiers. In one room (twenty feet by ten) were twenty-fix miferable objects, fome fick on the dirt floor. In another room, not fo bad, there were four.

In the prifon in the new city there were a few women confined for debt, and a man and woman for theft: their allowance one gro/che a day.

A date on the front of a prifon near the Vijlula informed me it was rebuilt in 1769. There were eighty-one prifoners in it, whofe beds were mattrefies Huffed with draw. Moll of them were employed in fawing wood and other occupations in the ftreets of the city for the inhabitants, who get their labour at one third lefs than the expence of other labourers; the public being at the fame time eafed of part of the expence of fupporting them.

In the fubui bs is the Zugth-hus, or fpin-houfe, improperly fo called, many of the miferable wretches feeming to have nothing to do. Some, however, were employed; and their allowance for working from fix in the morning to feven at night, with two hours reft at noon, was	(3ffd.) each

day, which went to the keeper for feeding, or rather (as appeared by their looks) for Jlarving them. The fick were lying on floors of dirt, without medical or any other affiftance. This gave me fo unfavourable an opinion of the police of this country, that I could feel no inclination to vifit the prifons in the provinces, or, (according to my	in	other	places)

to revifit thole in the capital.

The Great	hofpital(or Enfant Jefus) has this infcription over the gate,

fcculorum immortalset invifibilifcli Deo, Honor et Gloria. There were in this hofpital near eight hundred grown perfons and children of different ages. The rooms were all clean, and great attention feemed to be paid to the fick by the good fiflers, according to their uiual practice. Moft of the children were foundlings. Thofe who bring them put them into a cradle hung at the outfide of one of the rooms, ringing at the fame time a bell, in confequence of which notice, perfons attending within, turn the cradle on an axis into the houfe, where the children are immediately taken care of. As they grow up they are made to work in different ways fuitable to their ages and fexes. I faw one hundred and thirty girls, all neat, v'orking at their needles, and finging at the fame time a hymn.

The

Digitized by

Google

SILESIA.

55

The Convent belonging in this city to the Fratres	I	found

uncleanly j and it is the only inftance of this to which I have been witnefs in this fraternity. In a fecond vifit which I made to it, the wards were fumigated with juniper berries on burning coals.

The convent of St. Roque alfo I found clofe, crowded and ofFenfive, the windows being kept ftiut.

In the	hojpital of St. Martin there were many lick, of both fexes.

In the hojpital of St. Lazarus appropriated to venereal patients, there were fixty-one miferable obje<5ts, in clofe offenfive rooms. It is badly fituated, and in all refpedts one of the worft hofpitals I ever faw. *

SILESIA.

In O&ober 1781 I vifited the City prifoat Brejlaut built, as the date on the front informed me, in 1689. It confifts of twenty-three arched rooms on different ftories j in moft of which there is a piece of timber on the floor with a llaple in it, to which criminals may be chained. I found a prifoner or two in fome of the rooms, but none in irons.—Their allowance is two pounds of bread each, a day : (one hundred and twelve of their pounds are equal to one hundred Englijh.) To moft of the rooms there are double doors, one iron-latticed within another of wood j this is a very proper contrivance where prifoners are always confined.—At the top of the ftaircafes trap-doors are placed for preventing efcapes in the night. This prifon has alfo two dungeons down ten fteps.

Near one of the city gates and oppofite to the guard-room, there is a prifon which confifts of two circular rooms, each of them nineteen feet and a half in diameter. One is appropriated to men and the other to women; and in each

* At TVar/a’w there was no regular	ajjize of bread; yet ou weighing the various	forts which

I purchafed of feveral bakers, I found bread cheaper here than in any other part of Europe which I had then vifited.

there

Warsaw

Convents.

Hospitals.

Breslau City Prison.

Digitized by LjOOQLe

56

APPENDIX.

Breslau City Prison

Spl N-HOU5E.

Convent.

Berlin City Prison.

there were eleven prifoners, who were employed out of doors for feven or eight hours every day. Their allowance is two pounds of bread day, befides fire and candle.

In the	Spin-houfe, fituated near the river which riyis fhrough the town, there

were thirty-fix poor people, befides eighteen prifoners committed for offences. The former are allowed meat three days in the week; and their rooms and beds appeared clean—the latter are allowed meat only on the great holy-days; that is, four times in the year. During the reft of the year they fubfift on foup, and an allowance of two pounds per day of tolerably good bread. They are employed in fpinning from fix to eleven every morning, and from twelve to fix in the afternoon.—In the chapel belonging to this work-houfe, divine fervice is performed every Sunday and Thurfday, the poor fitting on benches in the lower part of the chapel, and the prifoners in the galleries.

In the Convent of the Fratres mifericordue I law eight or ten friars ferving the fick with their dinners between the hours of ten and eleven. The friars themfelves dine at eleven. I went again at four, and they were going to fupper. All was clean and neat.

Patients from every country are admitted into this convent; and the friars publifh every year a lift of the admiffions and deaths. In 1776, the number admitted was feven hundred and forty-eight, and the number that died was fixty-four. In 1780, thefe numbers were fix hundred and fifty-nine, and fixty-one.

I vifited two or three other hofpitals in this city, but faw nothing remarkable.

GERMANY.

AT	Berlin, in the	City	prifoncalled	Cal there are eight rooms on the

ground-floor, and down ten fteps eight dungeons : thefe rooms (thirteen feet by nine feet four inches) were numbered, and had barracks and ftoves, one ftove for two rooms. The dungeons are for the more atrocious criminals, of whom I faw feveral in irons, who were chained to ftaples in the wall. In 1778

the

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

57

the number of prifoners was eighteen men and thirteen women j and in 1781 it was fifty-eight of both fexes. Two of thefe were debtors ; whofe allowance is two grofcbe (3+d.) a day each. This allowance is paid by the creditors, and if omitted one week, the debtor is fet at liberty. The allowance to criminals is one grofcbe and a half. Thp prifoners, when their procefs is finifhed, are permitted to go into the court ; the men for an hour each time, at eight, one, and four in fummer, and three in winter; the women for one hour only in the day, from two to three. The prifoner, at his difcharge, pays the gaoler a grofcbe a day, for the time he was confined before his procefs was finifhed, unlefs the judge orders otherwife. The procefs ought to be finifhed in three months ; and if it is not, the fecretary is required to give account of the caufe of the delay. After three months imprifonment, the fee to the gaoler is only half a grofcbe a day. Here is an infpettor (or head-keeper,) who has apartments in the prifon; an under-gaoler whofe rooms look towards the prifon windows ; a furgeon whofe falary is fifty crowns (ecus) a year, befides the pay for his medicines; a chaplain; and a fecretary (grefjier) who keeps the books, papers &c. The infpedtor’s falary is fifteen crowns and twelve grofcbe a quarter. In a book which he keeps, the following particulars are entered in ten columns—the time when the prifoner was committed; the magiflrate by whom he was committed ; his name ; age ; religion ; place of nativity ; condition ; caufe of confinement; time of difcharge ; and the number of prifoners. One of the judges is obliged to vifit the prifon once a week.

There were only three or four prifoners in a room, none of whom are permitted to go into the court till their procefs is finifhed, (as my condu&or informed me,) that confederates may not be together.

One foldier at the gate, guards the prifon in the day-time; but at night it is guarded by one within, and another at the back of the prifon. Thefe foldiers are relieved every two hours.

There is no torture-room in any of the prifons in the Prujfian dominions, for the prefent king has fet the example in Germany of abolifhing the cruel practice. In one of the rooms of this prifon are alphabetically digefted, the names and deferiptions, with the fentences, of all who have been here confined, in order that fhould they be found here a fecond , they may fuffer a much feverer punifhment.

In the Court prifon	(Haus-Proighty,) there are feven cells for criminals, and

over them eight rooms for debtors and fmugglers. Thefe rooms look into a

I	court.

Berlin City Prison.

Court

Prison.

Digitized by ^ooQie

58

APPENDIX.

Berlin Court Pr I SON.

M A I S O N DF.

Travail.

1

court, to which prifoners have accefs two hours in a day. All the rooms have barracks and ftoves as in the other prifon.* Here are two or three good rooms for debtors adjoining to the keeper’s apartments, and feveral rooms in a back court. Creditors allow each debtor two grojche a day, and one for firing, befides paying one to the gaoler. Here were thirty-fix prifoners in 1781 j nine of them criminals in the cells.—Allowance to criminals is one grojche a day. I here faw two of that fort of veils for punifiiment, called SpaniJfj	mantles,(fimilar	to thofe mentioned at	one	weighed	fifty,

the other feventy-five pounds : they are fometimes worn at the gate of this prifon, and by fmugglers at the cujlom-houje, one, two, or three hours.

The Maijon de Travail, is a fpacious building in the fuburbs: it was eretfted in 1758 : the front is two hundred and twenty feet, the fides a hundred and fixty. It has a court in the centre. The number of inhabitants in 1778 were about four hundred and fifty, including fourteen children, and in 1781 five hundred and forty-fix. Beggars, idle perfons, and petty offenders of both fexes are fent to this houfe. Thofe who can work are employed, fed, and clothed; and proper care and attention paid to the aged and infirm. Every time I was there, I was'pleafingly ftruck with the cleanly appearance of all the inhabitants. Old and young, men and women, were fpinning and carding wool, in rooms about feventy-five feet by twenty-four, j- All have clean linen once a week; and I obferved a towel hanging up in each room. The apartments are white-walked once a year : this gives frefiinefs and neatnefs, and alfo light to the work-rooms. Here is a chapel with two galleries, one for each fex} and an apartment for the chaplain. The hall for meals is fpacious : the hours, feven, twelve, and feven. I was prefent at dinner-time j after ringing a bell, in ten minutes all were feated at about twenty tables,

• Here the criminals had fire in all the ftoves, though early in Oftober. On my obferving the propriety of this, the gaoler alked me, whether criminals had not fire allowed them in my country ? On my faying that in fome prifons they had not; he replied, f‘ How then do they exijl in winter ? ”

t My minutenefs with refpeft to meafurements and other circumftances relative to the con-ftru&ion and government of thefe buildings, will require no apology with thofe, who confider, that in the formation of new eftabliftiments it is of ufe to be acquainted with many things which, though apparently trivial, are frequently of material confcquence to the purpofes intended to be anfwered.

eighteen

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

59

eighteen to each table. Four feparate tables were at a little diftance for criminals. A fcrvant having called out,	the	fchool-mafter	prayed at

the defk in the middle of the room. And after all had helped themfelves with barley foup, * while they were eating, he read part of a chapter in the Bible; then fung an hymn, in which the children, who were all at one table, joined; after which, all went out and fetched their , each containing about a quart, and they were filled with fmall beer. After fpending about half an hour at dinner, they had half an hour for recreation. The whole was conducted with the greateft regularity.

In the hall are morning prayers, at which all mult attend clean, and then they take their bread for breakfaft. The inhabitants are divided into two clafies, the poor—and criminals. In 1781 therewere eighty-fix of the latter clafs, who are more confined than the poor. Both clafies have the fame nourilhment, except that the firft have meat twice a week, and the fecond only on Sunday. Their weekly talk is twelve pieces (or knots,) each weighing five ounces: if they do more, they are paid for it. When they are fick, they are fent to the great hofpital: (where the rooms are too rmich crowded.) Dinner for the fecond clafs—on Sunday, peafe and half a pound of meat; Monday and Friday, beans or lentils ; Fuejday and Saturday, flour -,	barley ; Fhurjday, peafe.

This houfe refembles the old rafp or work-houfe at	It is ex-

ceedingly neat, and fuch great attention is paid to all confined in it, as prevents every ground of complaint. The ftriCl and good police preferves the city of Berlin entirely free from beggars, f

In the Orphan houfe there were forty-fix boys and forty-one girls, all healthy and cheerful, and employed in fpinning wool in two fpacious rooms.

* I tailed the barley foup, the bread and the beer, which were wholefome and good, and they had enough. They have butter or cheefe, with their bread for fupper.

f That the police is indeed ftridl and extenfive I had fome evidence by weighing the bread from various parts of the city; all which exactly agreed with the ajjixe or ftandard. In June 1778, the fine white bread was fomething above three halfpence a pound ; and there was juft double the weight of rye bread for the fame money. In Odtober 1781, three pennyworth of the fineft was 1 lb. 140Z; of the fecond fort, 31b. 70Z: and of the third, 51b. 40Z. The bakers here and in Silejia, gain much more by the fine bread, than by the coarfe ; this is de-figned for the advantage of the poor.—Here the price alfo of the fcveral forts of butchers meat is fixed and publifhed.

I 2	.	I	looked

Digitized by

Google

Berlin M a 1 s 0 N

DE

Tr avai l.

Orphan

House.

6 o

Berlin

Orphan

House.

Spandau

Fortress.

House of Correction

Magdeburg.



APPENDIX.

I looked into their bed-rooms and obferved them to be clean and airy, having oppofite windows which were thrown open.—From feven to nine o’clock, and from one to three, they are at fchool; and from nine to eleven, and three to fix, they work.

There are two infirmaries in which there was only fick child. This houfe exhibits a contrail to that at Copenhagen; though the employments of the children, which my conductor there pretended to be the caufe of their cutaneous diforders, are the fame.

At Spandau, about ten miles from Berlin, are two prifons. The or caftle is furrounded with water. Thirty-fix ftate prifoners were confined in it in 1778, and a hundred and five criminals. Some few of the latter were rafping logwood j the talk for each thirty-fix pounds a day : but mod of them were fpinning. The criminals are badly lodged, and there feems to be little attention paid to them. In 1781 there were a hundred and fourteen prifoners. Here were none but men, for no ’women are ever permitted to continue a night in the caftle. They had a light chain to each foot, and fuch as were taken after an efcape had a collar of iron.

In the houfe of correction there were about a hundred and fifty perfons, fpinning, knitting, and carding wool for a manufactory in Berlin. Forty-feven of thefe were men, committed for fmall offences. They have meat only on Sundays in this and fome other houfes of correction. Here were fome rooms with filk-worms, on which the female prifoners attended. Neither this, nor any foreign houfes of correction which I have feen, are without a chapel.

In 1781 there were feventy men and one hundred and ten women. The apartments of the latter were neat and clean. Their dinner was good foup made of barley : but the bread was not fo good as at the work-houfe at Berlin; the daily allowance was twenty-two ounces, together with two quarts of beer. A few fometimes work more than their talk, and are paid for it. A diftinClion is made between the prifoners, and fuch as are reckoned infamous, are confined in a room by themfelves. I made the fame inquiry of the keeper here that I had made in fimilar houfes, whether the work of the prifoners maintained them ? The fame general anfwer was given, no, no.

At Magdeburg the Bruffian flaves were at work on the fortifications, ferving the mafons, digging fand &c. Their daily allowance is two pounds of bread, and on the days they work, they have alfo in money, half a grofche, about

three

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

three farthings. The number was only fifty-one, for many had been taken to recruit the army.

In the other prifons, nothing feemed worthy of obfcrvation: but in the bouje of correflion(which was formerly a convent) was a to grind or beat the logwood that the men rafped j and two or three large chambers of worms, on which the women attended.

If I may judge, by what I faw of the	here,	and at Spandau,

and by the few prifoners in the fpacious areas, all their apartments are not fo dreadful as fome imagine ; nor are all the perfons confined in them unhealthy and miferable objects.*

The houfe <?f correction for Lufatia at Lukau is a fpacious prifon. The men were treading in a large wheel to grind corn, five and five by turns. Some of them had iron collars, as at Bern, but no irons on their feet. The prifon for the women was a diftinCl building; their employment was fpinning.

At	Drefden, the apartments for the Haves being under the fortifications, mull

be unhealthy. I faw four fick, and yet they had their irons on. Among thofe that were at work, one had an iron collar, by way of punifhment for making an efcape, befides the broad iron about his leg. Another was fitting, and endeavouring fomewhat to alter the place of his iron. He told me that the weight was marked on it twenty-one poundst and that he could not have it changed to the other leg without paying a fmith.

Here are two other prifons. The houfe	has ten or twelve rooms,

each about ten feet fquare, with one window, and an aperture over the door, and barrack-bedfteads. There were ten prifoners, five of each fex. Three of the men were rafping logwood in a room down twenty fteps ; and the other two were employed as labourers in building a chapel. T*lis prifon and the orphan-houfe, is, very improperly, one building.

The other prifon for the bailliage, contains nineteen chambers, in which were twenty-fix prifoners; moft of whom had a chain (fome on one foot, fome on both) faftened to a ftaple in the wall. The prifon was dirty; and the gaoler’s pan of charcoal and frankincenfe (which his negligence rendered

• They are not all confined to a fmall quantity of bread and water, in cells of four feet, fquare and fix feet high, and loaded with feventy-eight pounds of iron, as the ingenious and intrepid Tftnck was fix years in this fortrefs.

neceflary)

61

Macdeburg.

House of Correction.

Lukau.

Dresden.

House or Correction.

Digitized by ^ooQie

Dresden,

Prague

Prisons.

Vienna

Prison.

House of Cor r ect ion.

necefiary) could not prevent its being very offenfive. Here was one debtor, who had from his creditor fix grojche (ten pence halfpenny) a day. The criminals allowance is one grojche (about feven farthings) each.*

There was nothing very remarkable in the two prifons at Prague. The men at the	Maifon de	Force, work out, with a guard, fawing wood &c. for twelve

creutzers aday,f which is lefs than the common wages of labourers. The prifoners themfelves receive only four for a day’s work, the reft is paid to the houfe. Many were thus employed, with chains to one or both legs, according to the different terms of their confinement.

At Vienna in 1778, I vifited all the prifons, and moft of the hofpitals. The prifons are old buildings, and afford no inftruftion.

The front of the great prifon. La Maifon de	,	is	remarkable for a

very ftriking reprefentation of the crucifixion of our	and	the two thieves

on mount Calvary. In this prifon are many horrid dungeons. J

In the Maifon de Force, or houfe of cor were a hundred and fixty-nine men, and a hundred and forty women. The	were	employed in carding,

fpinning and knitting. I was prefent on a Monday morning, when they brought their week’s work, for which, after it had been weighed, they received

# On paying my acknowledgments to the grand bailiff for permitting me to fee the gaol, I took the liberty to obferve, that I had fecn prifons cleaner. I mentioned alfo the feverity of chaining women, which is very uncommon in other countries. To this he anfwered, that “ the gaoler chained them for fecurity, being often obliged to be abfent in fetching prifoners from the country.” In return, I gave my opinion that the attention to a prifon ought to be the foie work of a gaoler, without which, little regard will be paid to cleanlinefs or humanity.

f A creutzer is near a halfpenny.

% Here, as ufual, I inquired whether they had any putrid fever, and was anfwered in the negative. But in one of the dark dungeons down twenty-four fteps, I thought I had found a perfon with the gaol fever. He was loaded with heavy irons, and chained to the wall : anguifh and mifery appeared with clotted tears on his face. He was not capable of fpeaking to me ; but on examining his breaft and feet for petechia or fpots, and finding he had a ftrong intermitting pulfe, I was convinced that he was not ill of that diforder. A prifoner in an oppofite cell told me, that the poor creature had defired him to call out for afliftance, and he had done it, but was not heard. This is one of the lad effefts of dungeons.

their

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

their pay. They have all that they earn for themfelves. A few received twenty-fix creutzers each, others lefs. The keeper was employed in putting the name on the work of each prifoner, and letting down the money that was paid, and the cotton delivered. The prifoners faw the cotton weighed, and took as much as they could fpin in that week.* At dinner-time, feveral large pans of foup and beer were brought in, and the prifoners bought what they thought proper.

The prifon was too much crowded,! the houfe not being built for the purpofe to which it is applied. In feveral rooms the were carding and fpinning. In one room, fome of them, who were taylors, were making clothes •for the foldiers j in another, fome were weaving coarfe linen at eight looms j and in another room, they were making thick blankets for the convents. Two more rooms were warehoufes for cloth, dockings, coverlets &c. manufactured in the houfe for fale. They were then white-wafhing the houfe. J In the chapel is a proper feparation of men and women. Here, and at Prague, and in fome other parts of Germany, they have iron grate doors, which do not prevent the circulation of air, fo falutary and necefiary in houfes of confinement. Too little attention is paid to the lodgings of the prifoners, for they have no coverlets.

Though I could not mention with commendation the prifons of this city, yet I mull acknowledge, I was greatly pleafed with the public buildings for the indigent, the aged, and infirm; which do honour to the citizens in general, and efpecially to the late	Emprejs	Qiteen.

The great	alms-houfiein	the fuburbs confifts of three courts. The front of

this fpacious building is fix hundred and thirty-feven feet; the fides, eleven hundred and fifty-three. The inhabitants are near three thoufand, including the military invalids. It was agreeable to obferve their order, neatnefs, and

•In the holidays, when the prifoners are not permitted to work, each has an allowance of

four or five creutzers.

*

+ One or two of the women were crying, and charging others with rifing in the night and Healing fome of their cotton. The mijlrefs believed the complaint, but faid fhe was not able to prevent fuch frauds, becaufe there was not the convenience of feparate apartments.

X It is the general rule in Dutch and German houfes of correction, to white-tv aJb them once or twice a year. I feldom negie&ed to enquire about this practice, as we have a claufe relative to it in a late a& for preferring the health of prifoners in gaol.

cleanlinefs.

Digitized by

Google

Vienna House of Correction.

A l m s - h o u s r.

6 4

APPENDIX.

Vienna

Alms-house.

Hospitals.

G*atz House of Correction.

Laubach.

Trieste

Prison.

cleanlinefs. Here poverty and old age appeared with a fmiling afpeft. Many of them were feventy or eighty years of age. They were cheerfully fpinning, becaufe whatever they could gain was to be their own.

Les Freres de	Charite have not only wards for the fick in their convent, but

thefe friars have alfo another airy and commodious houfe with gardens, to which they remove their patients when they begin to recover. In this were two wards up ftairs, and each ward had fourteen beds.

The noble bofpitalfor bringing up	,	was	the	plan of one perfon,

whom I left engaged in the improvement of his liberal defign. In fixteen rooms for boys, were five hundred and thirty-nine beds, and two hundred and forty-one in eight rooms for girls. The extent of the front is fix hundred and fixty-two feet.

/

In the great alms-houfe, and in feveral prifons and other public buildings, the rooms are all arched with ftone or brick, to prevent danger and confufion in cafe of fire.

Before I leave this city, I would juft mention, that every month, an account of the price, weight and meafure of bread and , is put up on the gates. *

At Gratz (the capital of Stiria) I obferved in the houfe of correction, that the prifoners had an appearance far more healthy than thofe I had feen in a fimilaf houfe at Vienna. They have beds and coverlets, and the guards fee that the men take off their clothes at night.

I omit particulars concerning^he prifon at Laubach in Carniola, as I cannot fay a word in favour of it.

At Triefle, the prifonconfifts of eight or ten very clofe offenfive rooms, each having only one fmall window. The pale countenances of the (nineteen)

* The bills I obferved were dated July i, 1778. Seven forts of bread were mentioned in them. The Jineft was (by my weights) exa&ly one pound for three halfpence of our money. The fecond fort was one pound and fix ounces for a penny. Inferior forts made of rye were cheaper. I commonly examined the price, and the ttri&nefs of this part of the police, in moil large cities that I vifited, to compare them (as I faid) with our own at London.

The bakers at Vienna are punifhed for frauds by the feverity and difgrace of the ducking-JlooL This machine of terror, fixed on the fide of the Danube, is a kind of long pole or board extending over the water, at one end of which the delinquent, being fattened in his bafket, is immerfed. The bakers would gladly purchafe a removal of this machine, but the punifhment is continued and infli&ed by order of the magiftrates.

prifoners

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

prifoners befpoke their own mifery, and the negligence of the magiftrates and keepers.

But in the Caftle were eighty-five flaves (Condannati) who feemed healthy and well. They were confined for three, five, feven, or fourteen years and upwards ; and were employed on the roads, in the harbour, &c. Some of them were at work in a large lighter,* clearing the harbour, juft under my chamber window. To prevent their efcaping, they were guarded by fix foldiers. They did not work harder, than other labourers would in the fame employment. Their hours for work were from five in the morning till between five and fix in the afternoon ;but they had two (from eleven to one) allowed them for reft, and half an hour more fometime before they left work. They appeared healthy, clean, and ftrong j and laboured cheerfully, becaufe when they were employed, each of them received, as extraordinary pay, three farthings a day. Their common allowance was two pounds and a half of bread and four farthings a day. I heard them called over, and faw them receive their pay, before they entered their chambers in the caftle. Their bread was fweet and good, fuch as I fhould have been happy to have found in many parts of my tour. They were treated with humanity, though under ftri<5t difeipline ■, were well fupplied with food and clothes j had two fliirts, two pair of ftockings, 8cc. and they lay in good bedsf with coverlets, in large airy rooms having oppofite windows, and not, like many convi&s, in clofe dirty dungeons under the fortifications. They were diftinguiflied from other labourers by a light chain on their legs, and a chain fupported by a girdle of leather at their waifts.

4 Two wheels were fixed in the lighter, one of them to draw back the fcoop or bucket, and the other (by the weight of ten men treading in it) to raife the mud, which was then emptied into another lighter managed by the overfeer of the work. Three or four times a day, a foldier (with a bayonet fixed on his mufket) accompanied a convifl, who went to fetch a tub of frefh water, and on his return he fupplied each with a tumbler of it while they were at work in the wheel. By the mail of the other lighter, a fail was fpread to (hade them, the weather being very warm, Farenbeit’s thermometer 85°.

f May not one great caufe of the unhealthinefs of our prifoners be, the want of proper bedding, which obliges them to lie in their clothes ? How different did thefe prifoners appear at the caftle from many that I have feen in PruJJia and at Vienna ! I was llruck with the fame good appearance of the 'women prifoners at feveral of the fpin-houfes in Holland. This reminds me of what I heard an old general fay, “ That he always found his men fubjeft to illnefs and difeafes €€ when they lay in camps, not from dampnefs, but from lying in their clothes and the want of ** proper bedding; for at the fame time all his officers had been quite healthy and well.” Whatever be the caufe of this difference, whether a more free perfpiration in bed, taking off bandages, or ventilation of the clothes, 1 am fully convinced of the fa<2.

K	ITALY.

Digitized by

Google

T RIESTE

Castle.

66

APPENDIX.

I

T

A

L

Y.

Venice

Prison,

I entered Italy in 1778 with raifed expectations of confiderable information, from a careful attention to the prifons and hofpitals, in a country abounding with charitable inftitutions and public edifices.

At	Venice,the great prifonis near the Doge's palace,* and it is one of the

ftrongeft I ever faw. There were between three and four hundred prifoners, many of them confined in loathfome and cells for life; executions here being very rare. There was no fever, or prevailing diforder in this clofe prifon. None of the prifoners had irons. On weighing the bread allowance, I found it fourteen ounces. I afked fome who had been confined many years in dark cells, whether they (hould prefer the galleys ? They all anfwered in the affirmative: fo great a bleffing is light and air! The chapel is only for the	condemned, who continue there a night and a day before execution.

Regulations were hung up in the prifon.—Here is a charitable eftablifhed for the relief of prifoners both civil and criminal, and rules are publiffied for the direction of the officers who have the management of it, of whom four are appointed vifitors of the prifon. There are likewife rules for the good government of the two infirmaries. Thefe I procured from the ducal printer, with the regulations for the galleys and prifons, for many years part.

One of the galleys was moored two boat’s length from the fhore, in which were only twenty-feven fiaves, who were kept here in order to be fent on board the other galleys. This was clean. Here, and in the other galleys, which were dirty and crowded, the (laves were in chains of about twenty-feven pounds weight, f

* The rooms for the Jiate prifoners are over part of the palace on the leads, which renders confinement in the heat of fummer almoft intolerable.

t I faw a Have dead on the (bore, who I fuppofe deflroyed himfelf in defpair ; for he could not hope to efcape by fwimming, becaufe of his heavy irons.

I vifited

I T

L

Y.

67

I vifited the prifons of Padua and Ferrara. In the former of thefe cities, none of the confined debtors would fit on the elevated Jlone	in	the	great

hall j and I was informed that not one had fubmitted to the ignominy thefe ten years.

At Bologna are three prifons; one of which is for debtors, who are alimented after four months and three days confinement, at one paule (about fix-pence) a day each.

to

The hofpital, S. Maria de Vita, afforded me great pleafure. All was clean; and the wards were lofty, and not in the leaft offenfive. The wards of the men and women were of the fame fize, each containing thirty-eight beds, nineteen on each fide. The bedfteads were of iron, and the coverlets were white and clean. Each ward had fourteen windows, feven on a fide, and all had curtains; they had folding wooden cafements, and on the outfide, wire lattices.f

In Florence are two prifons. J In the great prifon, Palazzo degV Otto> were only twenty prifoners ; fix of them were in the Jecrete chambers, which are twenty-one ftrong rooms. None of the prifoners were in irons. They had mattreffes to lie on. Their bread was good. In the torture-chamber, there was a machine for decollation, which prevents that repetition of the ftroke which too often happens when the axe is ufed.

# This is fometiincs called the Jlone of dijgrace ; for if they who are infolvent would avoid imprifonment, at a time fixed they mult fit upon it in a difgraceful manner three times.

f The wards of this hofpital were thirty-two feet and a half wide, and the beds were three feet two inches wide, and three feet eight inches afunder. In the middle of each fpace of the wall between the beds was a cupboard, with a fhelf, concealed by a fmall curtain ; and over each curtain was a flip of black marble with the number of the bed. On the fides of all the wards, for the convenience of opening and fliutting the windows, was a gallery eighteen feet above the floor, and two feet broad, with a light rail two feet nine inches high. The doors to the wards were iron grates, five feet five inches wide.

X Dr. Tarcioni, who had an order from his royal highnefs to infpeft the hofpitals, and report what beneficial ’improvements might be made in them, accompanied me in vifiting thefe prifons.

Bolocka.

Hospital.

f

Florence Pr ison.

K 2

Digitized by

1

68	appendix. i  1
Florence  Prison.	In the other prifon, Delle Stinche,there are five doors to pafs before you come to the court. The opening of the firft is three feet wide, and four feet nine inches high, with an infcription over it, Oportet (We ought to be compafiionate.) In this prifon are many fpacious rooms, in which are fmall benches to lie on. The men's rooms are below, and look into the court, which is about forty-three feet fquare. The women, entirely feparated, are up flairs, and have an hofpital joining to their room. A new infirmary for the men (forty-four feet by twenty-nine) is contiguous to the chapel. In this prifon were forty-two men and fourteen women. Debtors were not feparated from criminals. In one room were eight, who paid for their beds. The bread was good: the day’s allowance to each fifteen ounces. None were in irons.—The chaplain has apartments, and refides in the gaol.*
Hospitals.	The great bojpttal of S. Maria Nova was crowded, and too clofe; though the men's fever ward was four hundred and fifty-four feet long, and thirty feet and a half wide. They have feparate wards for wounds and fraftures. The women are attended by the Nuns, who have a pafiage under ground from the oppofite convent. Here are twenty ftudents, who lodge and board in the houfe for feven years, attend the fick, ferve the victuals, &c. f and are diftin-guifhed by a long cloak.  But the hojpital which I mod frequently vilited, was S. Giovan .J The afcent into the fick ward is by a flight of thirty Hone fteps. This ward was lofty and clean j and was a hundred and twenty-three feet long, and thirty-three and a half wide. There were in it thirty-three beds, three feet four inches wide, placed on varnijhed boards, || on iron bedfteads.  Neither the fides nor floors of this, and the other hofpitals of Italy, were wood, that being more retentive of fcents or infection than tarras or brick.
	* This prifon has fomething fimilar to the plan I propofed. A wall furrounds three fides of it; but being very high, and only eleven feet and a half dirt ant, it renders the prifon too clofe.  f I faw a friar or capuchin come in form and blefs the meat or foup for dinner. The numerous patients feemed entirely fatisfied with this, without any devotion of their own.  t The great attention of this order of friars to the fick, in every country where they have hofpitals, does them honour.  || This is very conducive to cleanlinefs, and fccures patients from vermin.  At

Digitized by ^»oo Le

ITALY

69

At one end there are five rooms with fingle beds for fick priefts. Three of them were occupied.

The hofptal S. Paolo della Convalefcenzafor the reception of recovering patients, has clean and airy apartments, and a fpacious refe&ory, or dining-hall. They continue here four days, and by the change of air and diet their health is confirmed before they go to their feveral occupations.

Here I would juft mention an alms-houfe, S.	,	for	infirm	perfons

of advanced age. It had eighty beds for each fex, and they were fitting up twenty more. The wards are thirty feet wide, all clean, and Ihew the care of the Nuns who attend on this charity. *

In the prifon at Leghorn were three debt, and eight of thofe called prijoners at large, and in the Jecrete three criminals. I mention this prifon becaufe of the infirmary, which, as appears by an infcription over the door, was built at the expence of the prefent governor, Philip Borbonio, in 1761.

The flaves in the fortrefs\ appeared healthy and well;	as	the old

keeper remarked, fince they have lain on	Each	prifoner	had a ring

round one leg; but when they go out to work, a chain is rivetted to two prifoners. Here were feven pontons to clear the harbour j but the weather, when I was there, being ftormy, they could not be worked. There were forty-feven flaves employed at the new Lazaretto, which is a noble fpacious building, with different apartments for officers and their men to perform quarantine, and large warehoufes for the cargoes of their fhips. ||

The old keeper generoufly ordered his fon to copy for me all the rules, from which I fhall here give fome extracts.

• I cannot leave Florence without exprefling my great obligations to the Grand Duke for his permiffion to infpeft the prifons, and making my acknowledgments to Sir Horace Mann our ambafTador, for his very kind attention and afliftance.

t In this fortrefs, there were a hundred and thirty-two flaves : at Pi/a, were eighty-five : and at the Grand Duke’s falt-works at Port Ferrara, feventy»

X Galleys or bulks ought to be the punifliment only for the moil atrocious crimes.

|| I wifli fome future traveller would give us plans of this Lazaretto, and that at Ancona and other places, as they might fuggeft fome ufeful alterations in the conftru&ion of our hofpitals and other public buildings.

Florence

Hospitals.

Leghorn.

Fortress.

Three*

Digitized by

7°

APPENDIX.

Leghorn

Fortress.

Three keepers have their falary from the Grand Duke. They receive a copy of the procefs againft every convict, carry it to the government, and regifter it in the proper book ; and when required, they muft give an exa<5t account of all proceedings againlt the prifoners. They make a report of the refractory to government, that they may be punifhed in proportion to their offences, with feverer confinement, irons, and baltinadoes. The principal keeper has power to choofc two turnkeys out of the belt-behaved prifoners, who are to exhort and inltruCt the others : but the keeper is to have a JiriEi watch over them. lie mult order that all prifoners, when they are brought in, have their heads fhaved,—be dreffed in the uniform of the houle,—and have irons on their feet.

The prifoners are condemned to labour, for thirty, twenty, ten, or feven years, or for a fhorter term, according to the nature of their crimes; and are chiefly employed on the public works. They are fent out every morning, under a guard of foldiers, and are chained two and two together, with a chain of about eighteen pounds weight. An hour’s relaxation is allowed them at breakfaft, and two hours in the afternoon : and at an hour before fun-fet, they are recondudlcd to the pril'on, and mull: be well fearched by the keepers, to prevent their having any thing concealed: and two hours after fun-fet, they are ordered to go quietly to reft. When they are employed on the works by his royal bighnejs, they are paid two crazzies (about three halfpence) a day ; but if employed by other perfons, they are paid four or fix	, according

to the nature of the work. At day-break, the turnkeys ring the bell to awake them : and a report is made by them to the keepers, if any have been guilty of irregularities during the night. Their daily allowance is a loaf of thirty ounces (which is made two thirds of flour, and one third of bran,*) and foup made from four ounces of peafe boiled in water, with fait and oil. On each of the two Eajler holidays they are allowed a pound of meat, and three ounces of rice. Every two years they have a coat of gray cloth, a waiftcoat of red cloth, and a red cap; every year a pair of fhoes ; and every fix months a lhirt, and a pair of drawers or breeches. Their drawers are Ihifted once a month, their fhirts every week. For lodging, they have a mattrefs filled with ftraw, and a coverlet: the ftraw is changed, and kept in good order.—If one attempts to defert, and be taken before fun-fet, he muft wear a ring, and a chain of

* Their bread was very good, f preferred it to that which I met with at my lodgings.

eighteen

Digitized by

Google

ITALY.

7»

eighteen pounds weight} and he muft pay half his future earnings, till it	Lechorn

amounts to a	zecbitt,*to thofe that apprehended him. If they who are con-	Fortress,

demned for five years, defert, when retaken, their term again commences : and for repeated defertions, they are more feverely punifhed, and fometimes tortured.

The chaplain muft injlrut1 the prifoners.

In the bofpital there muft be all proper provifions for the fick and infirm, viz. veal, mutton, rice, fine bread, broth, good wine, &c. A phyfician attends, and the diet and medicines muft be according to his prefcription. On entering, the patients have clean linen, fhirts, night-caps, and clothes. And the keepers and turnkey muft examine their vi&uals and foup, to fee that they be good, and that the quantity be according to the phyfician’s orders, f

# A zechin is about 9s. 3d.

f In Tufcany during the ten years preceding 1765,

There were 3076 imprifoned for debt, and 704 for petty offences,

210 condemned to the galleys,

17 executed,

5 branded.

This puniihment of branding was abolifhed by the grand-duke, Leopold. In the four years preceding 1769, there was no capital punifhment.

The Number of debtors and criminals, in prifon during the ten years preceding 1779.

	Debtors.	Petty  Offenders.	1 Sent to the Galleys.	Executed.
>769	264	71	34	I
*77°	244	IOI	16	I
1771	264	89	11	O
1772	292	,05	IO	0
*773	396	1 >5	9	O
>774	412	109	21	0
>775	508	150	12	0
>776	384	129	16	0
*777	96	1 *5	7	O
>77s	i76	142	6	O
Total	3036	1126	142	2

The above is extrafled from. Indication Sommaire des Rcglctr.cns &c. dc Leopold Grand Due de Yofcane&c. A Bruxelles, 1779.

At

Digitized by

Google

72

Rome New Prison.

APPENDIX.

At the great prifon at Rome, called the	,* at the back of which

runs the Tiber, on a ftone tablet over the door, is this infcription:

JUSTITI^E ET CLEMENTINE 5ECURIORI AC MELIORI REORUM CUSTODInE NOVUM CARCEREM INNOCENTIUS X. PONT. MAX.

POSUIT ANNO DOMINI MDCLV.

To JuJiice and , For the more	fecure and better cujlody of ,

Pope Innocent X. ereEled this New ,

In the year of our Lord

On the ground-floor, on one fide are the flaves for the galleys at Civitavecchia : on the other fide is a fort of cook’s ftiop, and a tap-room, over which are the	women's,apartments, five of whom were in the fecrete chambers, and

twenty more at large.—There are eighteen of thefe ftrong rooms for the men, which are clofe and offenfive, each of them having but one window for admitting light and air. Thefe rooms are never opened without an order from the governor of the city. There were fixty-eight prifoners. They are not permitted to go out of their rooms at any time, but for examination.—Some having been confined there many years, appeared with pale fickly countenances ; but none were in irons. Here is a chamber for diftrafted prifoners, in which were feven miferable objefts. There are feveral chambers with beds for thofe who are called prifoners at large, for which each pays one paule and a half (about eight pence) a night. There is a chamber for	one	for ,

one for Jews, and one for prifoners who have cutaneous diforders. On the upper floor are two infirmaries: one, appropriated to the prifoners in the fecrete, in which were four patients : in the other, which is for the reft of the prifoners, were ten patients the firft time I was there, and the laft time only f The

• The elegance and fimplicity of the front of this prifon occafioned me to give a plate of it.

■(•This infirmary is a fpacious airy ward, feventy-three feet by twenty-three, with feventeen beds, three feet three inches afunder; was clean, and had every thing proper for the fick.

whole

Digitized by

Google

*'	I T A L Y.	•	7

whole prifon is arched with brick, for fecurity in cale of fire. The paflages . Rome

are	jeven feet two inches wide, and light. The aicent to each ftory, is by two ^EW PRls0N

flights ofJeventeenJlone heps. Thefe ftaircafes are feet three inches wide}

the rifes five inches : this I mention, as generally, in our prifons (even thofe

that are lately built) the hairs are narrow, the rifes high, and the paflages

dark and iiftonvenient. There is a table of regulations by the authority of

the magihrates hung up in this prifon, ordering the exadt times, of opening

the prifon and the court, of faying mafs daily, and of dihributing the alms.

The times vary twice in a month, according to the different length of the days.

In the fame table, the phyfician is ordered to vifit the fick in the infirmary every morning, and in cafe of extraordinary illnefs, in the evening. I wifh I could fay I had feen no torture-chamber. On the fide of the great prifon there is a pulley and rope (fee the plate) to draw up malefadtors by their hands which are tied behind them} after they have been fufpended fome time, by being fuddenly let down part of the way, their arms are diflocated.*

In the prifon at the Capitol are two rooms for poor debtors, and for criminals whofe offences are not fo great as to caufe them to be confined in the Jecrete.

The prifoners in one of thefe rooms, have the privilege of alking alms of the paffengers. There were five debtors in rooms which they paid for, and two criminals in the Jecrete. This prifon is not orfenfive. There is a conftant current of water through one of the large rooms.

The ftate prifoners are confined in the cattle o	The	rooms	San Angelo.

appropriated to that purpofe were all empty, except one, in which was a bijhop, who had been confined upwards of tv/enty years, and was diftradted. Here

* See an account of this mode of punifhment at	in Dr. Moore's Vieiv of Society

Manners in Italy, vol. I. p. 476, third edit. This Letter (44th.) is well worth perufing, in which the ingenious writer defcribcs the manner of execution at Rome, with pertinent remarks, and concludes with thefe queltions. “ When criminals are carried to execution with little or “ no folemnity, amidlt the Ihouts of an unconcerned rabble, who applaud them in proportion “ to the degree of indifference and impenitence they difplay, and confider the whole fcene “ as a fource of amufement; how can fuch exhibitions make any ufeful impreffion, or terrify “ the thoughtlefs and defperate from any wicked propenfity ? If there is a country in which “ great numbers of young inconfiderate creatures are, fix or eight times every year, carried to “ execution in this tumultuous, unaffcdling manner, might not a ftranger conclude, that the “ view of the legiflature was to cut off guilty individuals in the leaft alarming way poflible, “ that others might not be deterred from following their example?”

L,	were

Digitized by v^ooQie

74	APPENDIX.

Rome t were alfo eighteen condannati who work in the fortrefs, and had each a light San Angelo, c||ajn> They feemed healthy and well.

On the death of the Pope,the prifooers are brought hither from the great prifon, for upon fuch occafions the prifons are thoroughly cleaned.

I can give but little information refpedting the prifon of the inquifition. It is fituated near the great church of St. Peter's. On one fide of the court round which it is built, is the inquifitor general’s palace. Over the gate is an infcription importing “ that it was erefted by Pope Pius V. in the year 1569.” The windows of the prifon have wooden blinds, and at a fmall diftance is a high wall.*

Fraternity. In this city, and many others in , is a Confraternita della	,

called S. Giovanni di Fiorentini. f It confifts of about feventy, chiefly nobles, of the belt families. After a prifoner is condemned, one or two of them come to him the midnight before his execution, inform him of the fentence, and continue with him till his death. They, with the confeflor, exhort and comfort him, and give him his choice of the mod delicious food. All the fraternity attend the execution, drefled in white. When the prifoner is dead, they leave him hanging till the evening ; then one of the	,	generally	a	,	cuts	him

down, and orders him t 6be conveyed to the burying-place which they have appropriated to malefaftors. I was there the twenty-ninth of Auguft, the only day in the year when this burying-place is opened to the public.—Adjoining an elegant church is a chapel, which makes one fide of a court, and on each of the other three Tides, is a portico fupported by Doric pillars. In the middle of the pavement £ of the front portico the women, and in one of the flde porticos

•The chambers of this Jilent and melancholy abode were quite inacceflible to me; and yet I fpent near two hours about the court and the priefts apartments, till my continuance there began to raife fufpicion.

f Many of Florentine extraction were the founders. This inflitution is ancient, for the church of S. Gio. Battifta Decollato belonged to them in 1450.

X Here are marble fquares, in which are circular apertures for the interment of thofe that are executed. Round thefe ftones is inferibed,

€< Dominc, cum veneris judicare, te Noli nos ccndemnared*

O Lord, when thou Jhalt come to judge, do not condemn us,

the

Digitized by v^ooQle

I

T

A L Y.

75

the	men are buried. The latter are interred in the fame drefs in which they

were hanged; for in Italy, coffins are not in general ufe.

The hofpital of S. Michele is a large and noble edifice. The back front is near three hundred yards long. It confifts of feveral courts with buildings round them. In the apartments on three fides of one of the moll fpacious of thefe courts, are rooms for various manufactures and arts, in which boys who are orphans, or deftitute, are educated and inftruCled. When I was there, the number was about two hundred, all learning different trades according to their different abilities and genius. Some were educated for printers, fome for bookbinders, defigners, fmiths, carpenters, tailors, fhoe-makers, and barbers ; and fome for weavers and dyers, a cloth manufactory being carried on here in all its branches. When the boys arrive at the age of twenty years, they are completely clothed, and a certain fum is given to fet them up in the bufi-nefs they have learned. In the middle of the court is a noble fountain, and there are feveral inferiptions to the honour of the founders of this excellent inftitution.

Joining to another court are apartments for the aged and infirm, in which were two hundred and fixty men, and two hundred and twenty-fix women. Here they find a comfortable retreat, having clean rooms and a refeCtory. I converfed with fome of them, and they appeared happy and thankful.

Another part of this hofpital is a prifon for boys or young men. Over the door is this Infcription :

CLEMENS XI. PONT. MAX.

PERDITIS ADOLESCENTIBUS CORRIGENDIS INSTITUENDISQUE UT QUI INERTES OBERANT INSTRUCTI REIPUBLIC^E SERVIANT AN. SAL. MDCCIV. PONT. IV.

Pope Clement XL For the correction and

Of profligate youth :	.

'That they, who when idle, were injurious.

When inftrlifted, might be ujeflul,

Fo the State.

1704.

L 2	In

Digitized by

Google

Rome . Michele.

76

APPENDIX.

Rome S. Michele.

Hospitals.

In the room is infcribed the following admirable fentence, in which the grand purpofe of all civil policy relative to criminals is expreffed.

PARUM EST COERCERE IMPROBOS POENA"

NISI PROBOS EFFICIAS DISCIPLINA.

*	It	is	of little advantage

To refrain the Bad By Puniflmenty Unlefs you render them Good By Dijcifline.

Here were fifty boys fpinning, and in the middle of the room* an infcrip-tion hung up,

SILENTIUM.

In this hofpital is a room alfo for women. On the outfide is an infcription, exprefling, that it was erefted by Clement XII. in 1735, for refraining the licentioufnefs and ptini/hing the crimes of women.

There are in Rome many hofpitalsfor the fick, but they were in general crowded, yet none of them had more than one patient in a bed. In the great hofpital of San Spirito in Safia,f there were, the firft time I vifited it, a thoufand and fifteen patients; the fecond time, eleven hundred and three. J

The hofpital of S. Gio Laterano was alfo crowded and offenfive ; and that of S. Giacomo degl' Incurabili was worfe : || but that called	,	that	for	the

# This room being different from any I had before feen, I had a plan taken, which may give a clearer idea of it than a verbal defcription would do.

t Formerly many nations founded hofpitals in this city. This was founded by one of our Saxon kings. Some others continue to the prefent time entirely national, as the Milane/e, Florentine, and Sfanijh hofpitals.

% Here is a ftaircaft remarkable for its afeent being very eafy, for valetudinarians, and for carrying up the fick in a kind of chairs or enclofed beds. It is feven feet wide, and has a rail on each fide. Every Hep is an inclined plane of three inches afeent, one foot eight inches wide, and the rife from one Hep to another is only three inches. Thefe lteps are of bricks, fet edgeways, and fronted with Hone.

|| Indeed I faw the hofpitals under great disadvantages, it being a very fickly time, occasioned by the long continuance of drought, and the extraordinary heats of the fummer 1778.

Florentines,

Digitized by

Google

ITALY.

77

Florentines, that of S. Maria della Confolazio were clean, and perfectly free from any offenfive fcents. In this laft-mentioned hofpital, no patients are received except fuch as have wounds or fra&ures. The Gallicano, another hofpital in this city, is folely for cutaneous diforders.

Before we take our leave of Rome, it may be proper juft to mention the hofpital for pilgrims and convalej'cents.Recovering patients, when difmifled from the other hofpitals, may enter into this, and refide here three days, lodge in airy wards, dine in the refectory, and be well attended.

The Pope’s galleys are at Civita-veccbia. The flaves condemned to them are confined for different terms, according to the nature of their crimes : but the fhorteft time is three years for vagabonds, who are generally employed on board the pontons in clearing the harbour. For theft, the term is never under feven years. Perfons convidled of forgery are always confined for life ; and if found guilty of forging bank-notes, or any inftruments by which large fums have been loft, they are punifhed with an iron glove. Prifoners for life are chained two and two together: thofe for limited terms have all a fingle chain, and, at their firft arrival, of the fame weight; but when they have no more than one or two years to ferve, they have only a ring round their leg, which is leflened as the end of their term approaches. For cfcapes, they are obliged to finilh their firft condemnation, and then receive a frefti one for the fame time as the former; but if the firft was for life, the fame is renewed, and they receive from a hundred to two hundred lafhes a day, for three days after their arrival. None are fent to the galleys under the age of	: criminals of a

younger age are kept at the holpital of S. Michele in Rome till they are of age and are there employed in fpinning, and fed on bread and water.

The allowance to each flave is three pounds of bread a dayj and fifty-five pounds of beans or calavances to each galley, with which they generally make a kind of foup once in two or three days, and they are allowed two pounds and a half of oil to boil with their beans. At Eafter, Chriftmas, and Carnival, they are allowed one pound of beef and half a pint of wine a man, and twenty-five pounds of rice to a galley.

For their clothing, they have once in two years, a ftriped woollen capotto and waiftcoat, two fhirts, two pair of canvafs breeches, and a woollen cap;

At night, two chains are put acrofs the ftreet over-againft this hofpital, by an order of Pope Alexander VII. in 1661, for the purpofe elegantly exprcfi'ed in the infcripiion,

Nc prctttreunte Jircpitu i^uies Arnica Omnino ai agrttantihus

and

Digitized by

Google

Rome

Hospitals.

Civita-

vecchia.

78

APPENDIX.

Civita-  vecchia.	and every year, two feet and a half of woollen cloth to wrap round their legs inftcad of (lockings. The yearly expence of each Have for maintenance, clothing, and chains, is computed at fifteen Roman crowns and eighty-feven hatocs, about £3 : 13:9.  At the time of my being at Civita-vecchia, three of the galleys were out on a cruize, and two only remained. Through the whole night there was great filence (as I lay in a felucca clofe to them,) though about four hundred were chained in each of the galleys.  The Jlaves here are conftantly employed, and have what they earn for them-felves, being paid according to their abilities and the nature of their work. For Jawing in the arfenal, they are paid two pence a day each; for working as mafons, two pence halfpenny ■, for carrying (tones and mortar, only a penny. Such as work at the canvafs and calico m are paid from two pence to eight pence, according to the quality of the work, &c. At the public works they are allowed an hour for dinner, and in fummer-time an hour for "breakfaft. *
Hospital.	Here is a fpacious bofpital on Jhore for the (laves. None were in irons. All was clean. In the centre of the great room in this infirmary was an altar for public worlhip. A particular room was appropriated for fuch as had cutaneous diforders, and another for conf patients, f
Naples  Prison.	The principal prifonin the great and populous city of $ is Ld Vicaria, under the courts of juftice. It contained when I was there, according to the
	* For the preceding account I am indebted to our countryman Mr. Denham, who has the fuperintendcnce of the Pope’s galleys.  f In this country, the phyficians are perfuaded that the confumption is a contagious diforder. Patients aiflided with it in hofpitals have a feparate ward. The fame precautions are ufed to prevent infedion as in the plague. When this diforder has been in private houfes, the furniture is removed, and the rooms are feraped and fumigated, before they are again inhabited.  J An account is taken every year of the inhabitants of this city ; and at Eajler 1777, their number, exclufiveof foldiers and marines, was 350,061, viz.  Males 170,574 Females 165,642 Priefts 3303 Monks 4231 Nuns 6311  Of this number there were born in the year immediately preceding, 6029 males, and 5571 females. The deaths in that year were 9553*  gaoler’s

Digitized by k^OOQle

ITALY.

79

gaoler’s account, nine hundred and eighty prifoners. In about eight large rooms communicating with one another, there were five hundred and forty fickly objetts, who had accefs to a court furrounded by buildings fo high as to prevent the circulation of air. In this court was a reccfs, under arcades like thofe that were under the chapel at Newgate. Some of the prifoners were employed in knitting, and others in making (hoes but mod <?f them were entirely without employment. In fix chambers, which opened into a fpacious hall, were many beds for fuch as could pay for them. Adjoining was a chapel, and a fpacious infirmary for the whole prifon ; in which were forty perfons, in fingle beds, with (heets, coverlets, &c.* In feven clofe offenfive rooms were thirty-one prifoners, almoft without clothes on account of the great heat: and in fix dirty rooms communicating with one another, were fifty women. Of all the prifoners, one man only was in irons, in a dungeon, near a fmall chapel which is allotted to the condemned before execution.—The bread was good : the daily allowance to each was twenty-two ounces.

There were three other prifons:one contained eighty prifoners, another near lixty, the other but eleven.

The galleys were moored about ten feet from the fiiore. In the firjl were two hundred and fixty (laves ; in the fecond, two hundred and ninety-eight; in the third, two hundred and feventy j and in the fourth, four hundred ; mod of them ftout and healthy. All were chained two and two together. Their bread was hard, but fweet. About twenty-fix ounces a day was allowed them ; and when employed in the arfenal and other public works, they have an extraordinary allowance of near a penny a day. After efcapes, if they are retaken, their whole term is doubled. Each galley has a chaplain, and public worfhip on Sundays and Holidays.

In the Seraglio, or great Alms-houfe,f there were about five hundred and fifty prifoners (condannati) in eight or nine rooms. Many of them work as

* In vifiting the prifons of Italy, I obferved, that in general great attention was paid to the lick ; bat I could not avoid remarking, that too little care was taken to prevent lickncfs.— From the heat of the climate, one might imagine the gaol fever would be very likefy to prevail; but, I did not find it in any of the prifons.

t The front of this building already extends near thirteen hundred feet, and probably it will be enlarged.

labourers

Digitized by

Google

Naples

Prison.

Prisons.

Galleys.

Alms-house.

do

Naples

Alms-house.

Hospitals.

APPENDIX.

labourers on this great building, with chains varying according to the terms ot their confinement; and have the extra allowance juft mentioned, with five ounces of flour for foup. In thefe rooms were fhoemakers at work, as in fome of the galleys ; but moll of the prifoners had no employment.*

This great building is to be a receptacle for the aged and infirm; and for beggars and idle perfons. There is a great number of the former in fome rooms that are finifhed, and which have windows into a court, where they were digging a foundation for a large church, by which the numerous inhabitants will be deprived of the falutary effects of the circulation of air.

The galley-flaves have an hofpilal on the f fronting the bay, entirely appropriated to them and their guards. It has four or five fpacious and airy wards, cleaner than moft of the other hofpitals in this city. One of thefe rooms is only for the guard of the marine. The patients are diflinguifhed into three clafies ; very ill—fick—and recovering. Great attention is paid to them : and they are allowed good bread in fufficient quantity.

The great and crowded hojpitals of S. Apoftoli and have wards appropriated to the cure of wounded perfons. J

The bofpital of the Benfratelli, or S. Gio. di , is clean and elegant. It confifls chiefly of one lofty ward; at one end of which is an altar and a room for poor priefls; and at the other end, a table, on which are placed the

# As no regular plan had been fettled for the employment of thefe Haves, the king lately made a prefent of three hundred of fuch of them as had been condemned for life, to the Malte/e.

■f- On my telling the furgeon, that in fome countries a part of each galley is made an hof-pital ; he replied, that mull foon make the whole an hofpital.”

I The frequency of aflauhs and a(Tuflinations in Italy is generally known. Many of the common people feem to be infeniible of the atrocioufnefs of the crime of murder. I have heard criminals in prifon exprefs, with feeming fatisfa&ion of mind, “ that though they dabbed, they did not rob.” If we confider that wards and even hofpitals appiopriated to the wounded are filled with patients, that the prifons are crowded, and that many are continually taking refuge on the Heps of churches, and examine our accounts in JanJJen's Lifts and the Judges Returns, we may reckon that there are more murders committed in a year in the city of Naples or Rome, than in Great Britain and Ireland. Does not this prove that the Englijh are not naturally cruel ? And might not arguments be derived from hence, for the revifal and repeal of fome of our fanguinary laws ? The Marquis Beccaria jullly remarks, in his EJftay on Crimes and Pioii/hments, chap. 28. “ That the punifhment of death is pernicious to fociety, from the example of barbarity it affords.”

victuals

Digitized by

Google

I T

A L Y.

8 i

A

victuals of the patients. Near this table was infcribed a reference to the Natles appofite words of Scripture, Matthew xxv. 35, 36. For was an bungred, and ye Hospital gavememeat: &c.

In many of the Italian hofpitals, and in all that I have feen belonging to this order of friars, there are no rooms over the fick wards, fo that they are as lofty as our churches or chapels.

At	Lucca,they formerly fold their condannati to the Genoeje or , but Lucca.

now they keep them in prifon without any employment.

At	Genoa, befides	a prifon for	debt ors> and a prifon for female	there Genoa

is a great prifon for male criminals, confiding of thirty-five rooms. 1 faw none Prison. of the prifoners in irons. Their daily allowance was thirteen ounces of good wheaten bread for each, befides foup. To this prifon belongs an hofpital and a chapel, with a large room to which the condemned are brought four days before their execution.—The inJlruRions formed for this prifon by the fupreme Jyndics, are hung up in it, and contain good regulations, as will appear from the following account of a few of them.

“The keeper fhall have under him fix afiiftants:—and the faid keeper is to be refponfible, and liable to punifhment, if any of the afiiftants fhall be guilty of the lead fraud or negleft in their employment.—The advocate fifcal is once a week, at any time he fhall think proper, but when he is leaf expe£led> to vifit the cells of the prifon, and to inquire diligently how the prifoners are treated by the keeper and afiiftants, in order to give information to the mod: ferene fenate, &c.—When any prifoner is condemned to death, he is immediately to be put into chains.—The keeper is always to keep the chapel fhut, except at the time of celebrating mafs, confefiion, or adminijlering confolation to the unhappy.—He is alfo to take care that the prifoners do not play at any	,

particularly cards. The laft order is, that this table of regulations be fixed up in the criminal court of juftice, in the chancery, and in the apartments of the criminals.”

In one of thej-<j//<3\f juft returned from conveying fome noblemen to their Galleys. country feats, I found about three hundred dour fellows, clean and healthy: for the old and infirm had been left in the galleys at home, of which there were only two, the other two being out on a cruife.	'	;

M	The

Digitized by

Google

82

APPENDIX.

Genoa

Galleys.

Hospitals.

The hofpital for the galleys is on floore; and in it are hung up the regulations, which confift chiefly of fuch orders as the following:

“That five fuperintendents fliall be appointed by the magiftrates, who every month fhall draw lots, to determine which of the galleys they are to infpedt.—That exadt lifts of the crews, and of the fick in the infirmary, with an account of the time of their admiflion, fhall be taken and kept, with the afliftance of the phyfician, chaplain, and furgeon.—That the fecretary fhall keep a regifter of all things neceflary to be provided ; bread, wine, meat, peafe, beans, rice, &c. &c.—That four caldrons of broth fhall be allowed weekly to a galley, befides kettles of broth ftatedly given them in the three winter months.—That when the fuperintendents difcontinue the allowance of meat, cheefe, oil, and ftockfifh, the chaplain fhall fee that each of the flaves be ferved daily with half a pint of wine.—That the phyficians fhall keep exaft accounts of their orders of meat, wine, paftry, &c.—That the captains and midfhipmen fhall take care that all the regulations be exactly obferved.”

.The	Turkijhflaves had many little fhops on fhore, for felling coffee, per-

fumes, &c. and for fhaving; like thofe I remember to have feen about fifteen years fince at Marfeilles. The bread allowance to the flaves is three pounds and a half, for two days in fummer; and three pounds in winter.

In	the great hofpital there were about three hundred men, and fix hundred

women. All fick perfons of any nation are admitted into it j and it is one of the beft and leaft offenfive of the public hofpitals of Italy. Here was a room and ward for foundlings, crowded and clofe; and the poor infants were cruelly bound, hands and feet, with bandages, as in the hofpital at	,	and

other cities in Italy.

There were alfo in this hofpital apartments for the infane. But thefe apartments were clofe and dirty; and the calm and , I found inhumanly confined in the fame room with the noify and turbulent.

The Albergo hofpital,fituated on an eminence within fight of the harbour, is an afylum for boys and girls. There were in it a hundred and feventeen of the former, and four hundred and eighty-two of the latter. It is fomething fimilar to the noble and well-regulated hofpital of San Michele at Rome. Over the door of the great room, where numbers were fpinning and weaving, is this infcription

Silentium et Obedicntia.

In

Digitized by

Google

I T

A L Y.

In	Milan, befides the great prifon, in which are twentyJecrete chambers;*—	Mila*

Prisons*

and the prifon for debtors, j-—there ar £ twoprifons called ,and La Cafa di	Correzione, which do honour to the country. Both are for criminals, condemned for a term of years, or for life. The mojl	, work in chains in

the ftreet; the others,only in the houfe.

In L'ArgaJlro there were three hundred and fifty-nine prifoners, healthy and House 01 ftrong. A confiderable number of them were at work in public : J but in the Correctio houfe there were at work fhoe-makers, tailors, fmiths, wheelwrights, cabinet- , makers, turners, nailers, rope-makers, leather-drdfers, painters on gauze, fpinners and weavers. Many here learn trades, fo that there is a probability, that when their term is finifhed, they will become	members of focietv ;

which fhould be the grand objebl in all fuch houfes. They receive for them-felves one third of what they earn, and two thirds go to the houfe.

Their dormitory is a fpacious room, with three ftages in it on which they lie. In the centre of the cieling are four large apertures, and fixteen fmall ones. ||

There are two courts, a pump, and running water for walking the linen of the prifoners, which they lhift once a week. § The daily allowance to each

* The general fisc of thefe rooms is eleven feet by twelve to fifteen. In fomewere only one or two perfons, but in others fix or eight : the windows are towards a high wall eleven feet diilant. Thefe are fome of the ftrongeft and moll retired rooms in the Italian prifons, in which the moll atrocious offenders, and thofe who are imprifoned for life, are confined. They arc inaccelfible bqt by a fpecial order. The entrance is guarded by two doors, between which is a narrow fpace, jud fufficient to admit two perfons. Into this you are locked before the turnkey opens the inner door, for fear thefe defperate criminals fhould murder the keeper for the keys, and attempt to rulh cut.

f In this great trading city, there were only four perfons confined for debt.

J They water the ilreets and public walks (at the expence of the city) there being nineteen fmall waggons for that purpofe ; fix men draw, and one attends behind chained. Others repair the pavements, &c.

tj A prisoner, whofe employment was drawing defigns and patterns, gave me a plan of the rooms and courts in this prifon.

§ I obferved to one of the prifoners, that they were cleaner than moll working men : he replied, “ orelfe the confinement would be intolerable.'*

M 2

IS

84

APPENDIX.

Milan

Houses of Correction.

is thirty-five ounces of good bread,* and a mefs of good vegetable foup. They have two hours for dinner and repofe. All had a chain to each leg. If any efcape and are retaken, the whole term is renewed, and half as much more.

In this houfe there is an hofpital, a chapel, and an apartment for the chaplain.

The	Cajadi Correzione is now (1778) building, on a noble and fpacious

plan.f The dormitory and the work-rooms for the men are finifhed and occupied. J In one of thefe work-rooms there were forty looms employed weaving linen, cotton, and diaper: in which alfo, and in two others opening into it, were warping and twijling-mills, and winding-wheels. Under thefe was a calender : and fome were employed in heating (not carding) cotton. In a detached temporary building I faw a prifoner employed in weaving gauze j who (as I conjectured from the great refort to him) was reckoned curious in this art. With the afiiflance of fome whom he employed, he kept four looms at work. Other prifoners were bleaching the cloth manufactured in the houfe. And fome were at work as mafons and labourers, in this great building.

Over the work-rooms is the great hall or	,	the room for boys, and

the infirmary. The dormitory is lightfome, airy and clean, and appears evidently to be an improvement on that of San Michele at Rome. || It confifts of a great room (one hundred and twenty-four feet by thirty-one)§ near the end of

# One loaf was equal to the daily allowance of two prifoners ; it was divided into two equal parts with an engine, and each received his o<wn portion every day.

+ The Count de Firmian, late governor of Lombardy, whofe amiable character is well known to our Englijb travellers, not only honoured me with the plan, but favoured me with every advantage for examining the prifons.

J The two work-rooms for the women (juft finifhed) are large and lofty ; and in each there are five large windows, placed high above the floor. At one corner of thefe rooms are ftone bafons, with water laid in to them.

|| I therefore infert the plan of this alfo.

$ On each fide of the hall are three ftone galleries, two feet eight inches wide, with iron rails. The chambers are numbered, amounting to one hundred and twenty: thefe are all fimilar, nine feet two inches by eight feet two; they have one window* outward, three feet by two ; and one towards the great room, two feet five inches by one foot five : they are furniftied with abed and bedding, a ftool, and a vault. In the infirmary, and the dormitory for boys, as well as in the great hall, there were ftone finks and water laid in.

which

Digitized by

Google

ITALY.

85

which there is an altar with a cupola over it: on one fide of the altar is the dormitory for boys, and on the other the infirmary; and all together make the figure of a crofs, which is the form of many hofpitals in Italy and other Roman catholic countries.

There were near three hundred prifoners in this houfe; twenty of whom were chained to two benches in the dormitory, but at the fame time employed in fpinning, or making and mending clothes. There are two or three rooms, adjoining thofe in which they work, occupied as warehoufes. All the prifoners work in irons.

In vifiting the great bofpital,my expectations, which had been too much raifed by the accounts of travellers, were difappointed, Moft of the wards are on the ground-floor, and not lofty, as there are rooms over them. They are alfo dirty and offenfive, though provided with fpacious drains. They had a middle row of beds, and in many of the beds were two perfons: bur care was taken to feparate the patients in fevers from thofe who were attended by furgeons.*

The bofpital of S. Gio di Dio exhibits that cleanlinefs and attention, which this fraternity always difcovers.

In the bofpital for orphans, called Ld Stella, the work and bed-rooms were

fpacious, neat and agreeable. There were three hundred girls in it; whofe employment was making lace on round pillows.f

In the prifon at the Citadel of Turin there were one hundred and feventy	Turin

in irons; fome had the half-chain, others were chained two and two together.	Citadel.

Thefe prifoners continue always unemployed, till they are fent to the galleys at Villa-Franca. Their unhealthy countenances plainly fliewed the little attention paid to them.—In this prifon there was a chamber for convalefcents, who not being fit for labour, are continued here forty days before they are fent to the galleys.

t

In the great bofpital of S. Giovanni there were a multitude of old men and Hospital. women, whofe apartments had a very improper communication with the wards of the fick and dying.

* Most of the chirurgical patients had been wounded in fudden quarrels or aflaults.

f I wifhed them a more healthy employment, and that they had ufed the fquare pillows of Flanders; for conftantly (looping mud be prejudicial, f'uch. as are thus employed are generally of a pale and fickly complexion.

In

Milan House of Correction.

Hospitals.

Digitized by kjOOQle

86

Turin

Hospitals.

APPENDIX.

t HAM BERRY

Prison.

Geneva

Prisons.

In the hofpital of	La, Carita, there were about two thoufand inhabitants,

moftly boys and girls.

Here alfo is an hojpital for lunatics, where, with pain, I faw wards crowded with beds, and in fome of them miferable creatures chained and raving.

At Chamberry I found that the falutary practice of wafhing the	was

adopted. Befides the ftated allowance of good bread, the prifoners are often fupplied with bread and foup, and in winter with clothes and coverlets, by a charitable fociety of ladies. In one of the rooms I faw chains; but was told they had not been ufed fince the walls had been built higher. A difmal torture-chamber, into which day-light never enters, makes a part of this prifon.

At Geneva I revifitcd the prifon which w'as formerly the bifhop’s palace. There were in it two debtors, and five other prifoners; to whom great attention was paid, as they were then laying new floors, left the rooms fhould be damp and injurious to their health.*

In the boufe of correction there were no prifoners.

SWITZERLAND.

I n entering Switzerland from Geneva, a traveller will be furprifed to meet frequently with a gibbet on the road, if he be not informed that almoft every Jeigneurie or bailiwick, has a prifon, and poflefifes the powxr of trying criminals and capitally convicting them. I vifited one of thefe prifons. It belonged

* I hoped to have found here no torture-chambers, but I had only the pleafure to hear that none had fuffered in them thefe twenty-five years. They are thus retrained by the thirty-fecond article in the Reglement de Villuftre Mediation four la pacification des troubles de la Republique de Geneva, publifhed in 1738, (t Les accufes et criminels ne pourront etre appliques a la ^uefion ou ■Torture, que prealablement ils n'ajent ete par jugement dlfnitif \ condamnes a snort, ”

to

Digitized by

Google

SWITZERLAND.

87

to Mr. Baron de Prangins, and confifted of four rooms at the top of this caftle. * It was empty : and this is commonly the cafe with the prifons in this country, in confequence of the virtuous education and induftry of the inhabitants.

At Freyburg there were no prifoners except a few in the houfe of corre&ion. The men convi&s are employed abroad in cleaning the ftreets, &c.

There were none confined in all the ■prifons at , except in the two houfes of correction. In that for the city, the men and women were fpinning. In the other, called the Scallenhaus, there were a hundred men and forty-one women, who were in feparate apartments, and three difFerent.rooms affigned to each fex according to their different crimes and the terms for which they were condemned, f They were all employed either in the houfe or abroad, except fifteen, who feemed miferable for want of employment. J

Some of the women were employed in fpinning. I faw them bring in their week’s work, and after it was examined, receive twenty-feven pounds of flax for the following week. At that time fome of the town’s people purchafed the flax that had been fpun, and paid for it to an	who lives near

the prifon.

As the employment of the men convifts in the ftreets is fomewhat fimilar to their employment at Milan, I give a reprefentation of it from a draught taken by a painter in this city; I have alfo given a view of the employment

* I obferved the fame thing at the caftle in the ifle of Gorgona in Italy, where were two rooms at the top of the building for prifons. this is different from the ancient cruel mode of confining prifoners in pits and dungeons of caftles.

f An old keeper having left the door of one of the men’s wards unlocked, twelve prifoners forced the outer door and walked off; the people, who happened to fee them, fuffering them to pafs, becaufe they fuppofed they were going to work in the ftreets. When four or five of them fome time after were retaken and carried to their old lodgings, the magillrates ordered that they fhould not be punified, confidering that every one muft be defirous of gaining liberty. As they had not been guilty of affault or violence in making their efcape, the punifhmcnt fell on the keeper for his negligence.

I As fome employment is abfolutely neceflary ; when the crimes arc of fuch a nature as to allow or require indulgence, it fhould be given them by fhortening their term of confinement, or in fome other way, inftead of allowing them to be idle. I have feen this falfe indulgence to prifoners in feveral places.

Switzer-

land.

Freyburg.

Bern

Prisons.

of

Digitized by

83

Bern House of Corrector.

APPENDIX.

Zurich

Prisons.'

SCHAFF-HAUSEN.

of the women, though I deteft the cuftom of daily expofing that fex to fuch ignominy and feverity, unlefs, when they are totally abandoned, and have loft all the fofter feelings of their fex.*

At Zurich there is a prifon, fituated in the middle of the river, for capital crimes :f and a houje of correction. In the latter, which is convenient and fpacious, there were about fixty prifoners. Nineteen of the men worked abroad for the citizens, who paid them for their work, but not fo much as other labourers. The reft were fpinning within doors or working at fome trade.

I obferved one woman colouring botanical prints. They have a chapel in which they attend divine fervice, and are catechifed every Friday. Once a day, fuch of them as do not work abroad, (by the advice of one of the phyficians,) walk under arcades in a large fquare court; during which time, their rooms are thoroughly aired, the doors and windows being thrown open. They have good bedding; and they are well fupplied with bread and foup every day, but no meat. The prifoners on entrance have the hou/e clothes, and their own are hung up, with their names, and the time of their commitment, noted upon them.

On inquiring of one of the magiftrates, if they	any of their

criminals ? he feemed furprifed at the queftion, and alked, if I did not fee in the mountains many manufactories ?

There were no prifoners at Schaffhauf, except three in the houje of correction.

* Will it need an apology if the mode of publifhing the a(fiz.e bread in this city be jull mentioned? It is better than that ax. Vienna and feveral other cities. In the middle of the window of every baker’s (hop is hung up in full	the	bill on pafteboard, fpecifying the

‘weight and price of three different forts of bread, and, at the bottom, that of the fine rolls. The bills arc figned by the magiftrates fecrctary. If the price continues the fame the following month, the fecretary notes it on all the bills. I copied one of thefe bills, and purchafed the different forts of bread, which I found to be for rather over weight. The prices were, ‘whitebread, ilb. five	creutzers ;houjhold, 1 lb. four	and a quarter ; brown bread, ilb.

three creutaers and a quarter; (a crcutzer is near a halfpenny.)

+ Here was only one prifoner. The firft room was for examination; in it were five different weights for torture, and if we may depend on tradition, the heavieft, which is one hundred and twenty pounds, was ufed in torturing a burgomafter of this city.

GERMANY.

89

In this country (I faid) great.cjre is taken to give children a religious education ; and that there are but few prifoners. The chaplains inftruCt, and pray with thofe confined in the houfes of correction. No vifitants are admitted on Sunday. Thus a principal objeCt here, is to make them better men. This, indeed, fhould always be the leading view in every houfe of correction ; and the earnings of the prifoners Ihould only be a Jecondary objeCt. As rational and immortal beings, we owe this to them; nor can any criminality of theirs, juftify our negleCt in this particular.

From the excellent manner in which houfes of correction are conduced in this country, as well as in	Holland,by regents or infpeCtors, whofe motive

for attending to their duty cannot be large falar'tes ;* I am (till more confirmed in the opinion I before advanced, that no mercenary views fliould be held forth to the perfons to whom fuch an important trull is committed. Nor can I doubt, that in our own country, as well as abroad, men might readily be found, who merely from a fenfe of duty, and love to humanity and their country, would faithfully and diligently execute fuch an office, with no other reward than the approbation of their fellow-citizens., and of their own confciences. In fact, we find, that there is no want of refpeCtable perfons among us, to undertake the government of	and	houfes	of	indtiflry	upon

thefe principles.

From Switzerland I returned into Ge, in 1778, to vifit fome prifons which I had not feen, particularly thofe in the free or imperial cities.

GERMANY.

AT	Augfburg, th	e prifonis on the fide of a hill, at the back of the town-houfe.

It confifts of many cachots or fmall rooms, on three different floors. There is one for examination, and there are two for the engines of torture, f The condemned are brought three days before their execution into two light rooms.

• See Mr. Coxe's LetUrs from p. 463.

f There are alfo two dark dungeons for fuch as have been convifted of witchcraft: but they are in a very ruinous condition, and feem to have been a long time without inhabitants.

N	which

Digitized by

Google

Switzer-

land.

Augsburg

Prison.

9o

APPENDIX.

Augsburg

Prison.

House of Correction.

Munich

Prisons.

House of Correction.

Hospitals.

which open into a Roman catholic chapel: where, however, if a prifoner be a proteftant, a Lutheran minifter is permitted to attend him.

The boufe of correction confifts of buildings on two Tides of a fpacious court; one fide for thofe of the Roman catholic religion, and the other for proteftants, with a chapel for each. The rooms were all clean, and are white-wafhed every year. Oppofite to the front windows in molt of the rooms, were high windows, of a femicircular form, which were defigned for promoting a circulation of air.

At Munich or Munchen, there are two prons for criminals. One in the town-houfe had in it fix men and two women prifoners.* In a dark damp dungeon down feventeen fteps, were the inftruments of torture.

The. other, called Ld Prifon de la Coury confifts of about fifteen cells, twelve feet by feven, and a black torture-room, f

In the houfe of correction were about forty men and thirty women; fome weaving wide cloth, but moft of them fpinning. The keeper ordered his fervant to attend me with charcoal and frankincenfe; a certain fign of negligence and inattention, which the countenances of the prifoners confirmed.

I was agreeably relieved from the pain excited by thefe fcenes, with the view of the two hofpitals of Les Freres and Les Sceurs de Charite. In the former

* Once a year, <viz. on All-faints day, any perfons are permitted to enter and fee the prifon. There is a cuftom fimilar to this in Holland, at the Fair and other fixed times.

f In this room there is a table covered with black cloth and fringe. Six chairs for the magiftrates and fecretaries covered alfo with black cloth, are elevated two fteps above the floor and painted black. Various engines of torture, fome of which are ftained with blood, hang round the room. When the criminals fuffer, the candles are lighted; for the windows are {hut clofe, to prevent their cries being heard abroad. Two crucifixes are prefented to the view of the unhappy obje&s. But it is too (hocking to relate their different modes of cruelty. Even women are not fpared.—This room feems very much like the torture-room in Spain, deferibed in Limborcb's Hiftory of the Inquifiiion tranflated by Chandler, vol. II. p. 221, 4to. edit. t€ It was a large under-ground room, arched, and the walls covered with black hangings. The €f candlcfticks were fattened to the wall, and the whole room enlightened with candles placed “ in them.—The inquifitor and notary fiat at a table, fo that the place feemed as the very manfion of death, every thing appearing fo terrible and awful.”

were

Digiti; by

Google

G E R M A

N Y.

9i

I

were about forty beds; in the latter, twenty : the wards wrere about twenty-fix feet wide. All was neat and clean, ftill and quiet; and the great attention paid to the patients was every where apparent. I faw the operation of bleeding performed by the nuns with great dexterity and tendernefs. Over the foot of each bed a text of Scripture was infcribed, as in fome Italian hofpitals.

The prifonat Ratijlon or Regenfburg is in the town-houfe. Many of the chambers are airy, and mod of them have ftoves. There are no dungeons, but three dark cellars for torture, at which two fenators, their fecretary, and the hangman with his valets affilt. At Munich and fome other places, a furgeon always attends ; but I heard of no fuch cuftom here.

At the back of the orphan-houfe is the houje of	,	in	which	were	only

two women.

At	Nurenburg, the prifon is under the town-houfe.	There are fifteen fteps

down to the gaoler’s kitchen. The apertures for admitting light into the paflages of the dungeons are level with the ground. This is one of the worft prifons I ever faw. The dark unhealthy dungeons, and the difmal torture-chamber,* do no honour to the magiftracy of this city.—The gaoler makes ufe of a low trick to prevent the efcape of his prifoners, by terrifying them with the apprehenfions of falling under the power of witches. In feveral of the German gaols there are dungeons for thole that are guilty of witchcraft, but they feem to have been long difufed: and I hope increafing light and good fenfe will foon entirely banifh the fears of witches, and confequently the witches	thetnfelves.

In one of the city-towers in which lunatics are confined, there are three or four rooms for criminals of higher rank.

The prifoners in the houje of correftionf were employed in grinding fpedlacle-glafies. The furplus of what they earn above forty	,	or	eighteen	pence

• In this chamber on the wall is infcribed a gingling vcrfe, which I here infert, as perhaps no traveller but myfelf has ever feen it:

Ad mala patrata, funt atra theatraparata. 1753.

f Over, the gate of the houfe is this infcription :

Hie criminum frequentia Mortalium dementia Compefcitur dementia Salva fori fententia.

N 2	a	week

Munich

Hospitals

R atisbon Prison.

Nurenburg

Prison.

House of Correction.

Digitized by v^ooQie

APPENDIX.

92

Nurenburg. a week each, they are allowed for themfelves.* Some of the women were working gold and filver lace on culhions.

Schwabach At Schwabach, in the margraviate of	,is a large houje of correction, in

House of which were ninety-three prifoners. Some men here alfo were grinding glades .

Correction.	*	00

in two large rooms; and others, in different apartments, were employed in polifhing fteel buttons for clothes, wire-drawing, and making fpinning wheels : and I was informed that twelve were at work on the road. The women were fpinning.

This houfe was clean and well regulated. The gaoler readily fupplied me with a book containing an account of the regulations, &c. in which are fbme liberal and fenfible remarks that appear worth tranfcribing.

It is obferved, “ that there is great error in expelling that a houfe of this *	kind	fhould be able to maintain itjelf; fince with the ftri&eft oeconomy, a con-

fiderable annualJum will be found necefiary for its proper fupport.”

The greatell attention to cleanlinefsis inculcated} bathing rooms are provided for the prifoners ; and the expence of wajhing for them is reckoned an object not to be regarded.

The neceffity for ftck wards for both fexes is pointed out.

It is remarked, c< to be a very falfe notion, that a man who lives upon bread and water can work hard and be kept in healthaccordingly, as will be feen in the table fubjoined, a daily allowance of hot proviftons is ordered for the criminals.

It is mentioned as an effential point to preferve order, and prevent abufes,

“ that one of the city magijlrates fhould every week in rotation vifit the houfe, and clofely infpefl every thing relative to its management.”

Such prifoners as have been publicly whipped are called	,	and are

diftinguifhed from the reft, by having a particular place appropriated to them in the chapel, and by being made the laft in receiving the facrament. The

* The men grind feven glades in each hand. Some grind four hundred in a week, by which they earn fifty-two creutzers at thirteen for a hundred, and confequently each earns for himfelf twelve	creutzers a week. That	this is a very unhealthy bufinefs, is evident from the

countenances of thofe whom I faw thus employed, and from the difagreeable fenfations I always received from the duft in the rooms where they were grinding. The medical gentlemen preferibe bleeding and phyfic to thefc perfons, two or three times a year.

chaplain

Digitized by ^ooQie

GERMANY.

93

chaplain refides in the houfe. The account of the daily allowance to the Schwabach. prifoners was hung up in the dining-room.*

In a large	houfe of correRion near	Bayreuth,in the men were all	Bayreuth

working on marble,f which is found in the neighbouring mountains. $ Many	0F

were employed at the poliftiing bench, two on each flab. Others were varioufly engaged, in finifhing, filing, or carving; or in cutting proofs or famples at

* Regulations of the daily hot provifions forthofe prifoners in the houfe of corre&ion who

are fet to hard labour,

Sundays.	In the fummtr months, half a pound of beef with half a pint of greens :

And in the evening, a pint of foup w ith eight ounces of bread.

In the awinter months, half a pound of meat with a pint of four krout : And in the evening, a pint of foup with eight ounces of bread.

Mondays. \n fummer, dumplings of wheaten flour.

And in winter, peafe.

Tuesdays.	In fummer, peafe and peeled barley.

In winter, turnips.

Wednesdays. In fummer and winter, boiled millet.

Thursdays.	In fummer, butter foup.

* In winter, fweet cabbage.

Fridays.	In fummer, dumplings of wheaten flour.

In winter, potatoes ; and in the evening, foup with flour.

Saturdays.	In fummer, peafe.

And in winter, peafe and peeled barley.

Further, Unto each of the faid prifoners in the evenings, butter ; and daily, two pounds of bread and half a meafure of beer.

For thofe who are put to fight labour the diet is fimilar, except that each has only a pound and half of bread daily, and no butter or beer : and on Mondays and Fridays, they have frumenty gruel, inftead of dumplings.

To vagrants, and thofe who earn their bread by fight labour,

Sundays.	Dumplings and foup for	fupper.

Wednesdays.	Millet boiled in milk.

On the other days, no hot vi&uals.

To each daily, one pound and three quarters of bread.

f My late ingenious friend and colleague. Dr. Fothcrgill, propofed a ft heme cf this kind for the employment of our convifts, and pointed out many of the advantages which might attend the execution. It was printed in the Gazetteer, September 30, 1776.

X Some fpecimens of feveral forts of the marble I brought home.

the

Digitized by

Google

94

APPENDIX.

Bayreuth House of Cor rection.

WURTSBURG

House of Correction.

the wheels; or in working on tobacco-boxes, {huff-boxes, &c. A large warehoufe contained the goods they had finiftied. In fummer, many of them are employed in fawing without doors ; but in winter, they work in rooms : for were they to attempt this work abroad, a fudden froft might endanger the materials, but would certainly render it impoflible to ufe the faw. The pale countenances of the prifoners were a fign that their work was laborious, and that the keeper had the whole profit.

The women were fpinning worfled, and appeared objedls of companion. Their dirty rooms,, fickly looks, and cutaneous complaints, evidently befpoke inattention and negleft.*

In the houfe of correction at Wurtjhurg were fifty-four men and thirty-fix women, employed in a well-regulated woollen manufaflory. * In one part of the houfe they were fpinning ; in another, picking and carding wool; and in another, weaving wide cloth for the foldiers, j- and alfo flocking and waiflcoat-

• I have a book of the regulations : but of what advantage are the belt rules when not enforced ? It may be of ufe, however, to give fome idea of the nature of thefe regulations, which feem, on the whole, well planned. After mentioning that the two fexes are to be kept feparate, and alfo the honnetes from the infames ; a chapter is given, treating on the Means of Correction, under three heads, i. Religious inftruction, in which the Chaplain’s duty is amply laid down. He is to read prayers twice a day, preach and catechife on Sundays, and employ the mod folemn and earned exhortations occafionally. 2. Labour. Idlenefs being judly confidered as the fource of mod vices, great attention is paid to a condant employment of the prifoners. The nature of this employment has been mentioned in the text; but I think it proper to quote one obfervation from the book of regulations, which is, that it is of advantage to have part of the work of a kind that any perfon, though incapable of the common labour, may be employed in it. Such is the turning of a wheel, which even a blind man may perform. 3. The various punifoments of the refractory.

A fubfequent chapter treats on Diet, Clothing, and Cleanliness. The allowance is two pounds of wholefome bread daily, and fomething hot for dinner. Meat only on a few holidays. For the fick, there is an addition of four pfennings a day for board. All the money, however, is paid to the keeper, who finds the provifions. Concerning cleanlinefs it is obferved, that the want of it not only occafions difeafes of the body, but alfo tends to the corruption and debafement of the mind.

t The wheels were larger than cur fpinning-wheels, the diameter being four feet. Here, and at mod houfes of this fort, arc large looms (fix feet feven inches wide) and two perfons work at each loom. In a warehoufe, the manufacturer (for all fuch houfes have a manufa&urer) fhewed me fevcral pieces of cloth for the under officers, the artillery, the foldiers, and the hofpital or poor-houfe.

pieces.

Digitized by

Google

GERMANY.

95

pieces.—The women were all fpinning or carding in one large room. As their fpinning was of various kinds, there was a room with cupboards, where each perfon’s work was laid up feparately. The talk for each man or woman was eight creutzers, or three pence halfpenny, a day. Here is a Roman catholic chapel, and the prieft lives in the

At Francfort (on the Maine,) there are five prifons. One is for debtors, where I found only three, who were alimented at ten	,	about four

pence a day, payable by their creditors.

The prifon called Ld Four de Ste. Catharine was empty. Here is a light room, to which criminals are generally brought from the great guard prifon, juft before their execution. The men are hanged, and the women beheaded; but executions are very rare in this city.

In the boufe of correction (near the work-houfe) were three prifoners, two women and a man. The man was at work with two or three others in the court, beating to powder a porous ftone, which is worked up with water, and makes, when dry, a hard cement or coat of plafter. The two women were employed in the work-houfe.

In the tower at Cologn, there were no prifoners either for debt or for capital offences. In this and many other cities, the magiftrates will not permit a debtor who has no effects to be confined. This city has not the power of executing criminals j but when they are condemned, they are delivered up to an high officer of the elector's, and confined in a dungeon in his houfe. I faw one thus confined when I was here fome years ago.

In the boufe of correction, the men were beating ftone to powder with fmall wooden mallets, as is pra&ifed at Francfort The women were fpinning, or knitting (lockings.

The great prifon at Aix-la-Cbapelle was unoccupied. — In the guard near the Maifon de Ville there were two prifoners j one of whom was a very old man with irons on his hand, who was confined on fufpicion, and had twice fuffered the torture to force a difcovery of his confederates. •

• Roman catholic prifoners are fometimes fent hither from other countries, for their term of confinement, as thofe of a different perfuafion are fent to Bayreuth.

Executions

Digitized by

Google

Wurtsburg House of Correcton.

Francfort

Prisons.

Colog n.

Aix'-l a-Chapellc Prisons.

96

APPENDIX.

A IX-L A-C H A P E L L E

Liege

Prisons.

Executions are not frequent in this city.* Citizens are always executed by decollation, which is performed by the broad fword, as at Hamburg, Bern, &c. and not by a machine, as in fome parts of Italy-, nor by the axe, as in England, Denmark, ike.

The two prifons (diftinguifhed by the names of the and th	near

Ld Porte de St. Leonard in Liege, are on the ramparts.—In two rooms of the old prifon I faw fix cages made very ftrong with iron hoops, four of which were empty, j- Thefe were difmal places of confinement -, but I foon found worle. In defeending deep below ground from the gaoler’s apartments, I heard the moans of the miferable wretches in the dark dungeons. The fides and roof were all (lone. In wet weather, water from the fojfes gets into them, and has greatly damaged the floors. Each of them had too fmall apertures, one for admitting air, and the other, with a fhutter over it ftrongly bolted, for putting in food for the prifoners. One dungeon larger than the reft was appropriated to the fick. In looking into this, with a candle, I difeovered a ftove, and felt fome furprife at this little efcape of humanity from the men who con-ftrufted thefe cells.

The dungeons .in the new p-ifonare abodes of mifery ftill more (hocking ; and confinement in them fo overpowers human nature, as fometimes irrecoverably to take away the fenfes. I heard the cries of the diftracted as I went down to them. One woman, however, I faw, who, (as I was told) had fuftained this horrid confinement forty-feven years without becoming diftrafted.

The cries of the fufferers in the torture-chamber may be heard by paflengers without, and guards are placed to prevent them from flopping and liftening. A phyfician and furgeon always attend when the torture is applied; and on a fignal given by a bell, the gaoler brings in wine, vinegar and water, to prevent the fufferers from expiring.—tc Lhe tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.” Thus in the Spanijh inquifition, the phyfician and furgeon attend to determine the utmoft extremity of fuffering without expiring under the torture. J *

* In this and many other cities, the convift knows not of his execution, till three days before the time. Then he is conflantly attended by his confeffor, and indulged in the choice of food.

f The dimenfions were feven feet by fix feet nine inches, and fix feet and a half high. On one fide was an aperture of fix inches by four, for giving in the vi&uals.

t See Chandler's Tranflation of Limlorch's Hijl. of the Inquifition9 vol. II. p. 222.

I will

Digitized by

Google

F

LANDERS.

97

I will only add, that in this prifon there are rooms appropriated to prifoners en	penfion; that is, to fuch as are confined by the magiltrates, at the defire of

their parents, guardians or relations. A fhocking practice! which prevails alfo in fome of the neighbouring countries.

In the	Maifon	de Force there were	ninety prifoners, ranged in four rooms,

and employed in a woollen manufactory of linings for foldiers clothes. Perfons live in the houfe who well underltand the bufinefs, and inftruCt the prifoners in forting, carding, fpinning, twilling and weaving. None of them were in irons. All had feparate beds, and were fupplied with good rye bread, — meat three times a week—two quarts of beer, for each, every day—and foup every other day.—The	chaplain, who lives in the houfe, favoured me

with his company through the work-rooms, lodging-rooms, and the refeCtory. He entered into the true fpirit of this inftitution, and lamented the inconvenience of the houfe, as not being built for the purpofe to which it is applied. He took notice of the propriety of folitary confinement for thole that were riotous and refraCtory at their firlt coming j for generally, he faid, “ in four or five days they would become very tradable and fubmiffive.”

FLANDERS.

At BruJj'elSy I revifited the prifon La Porte de Halley which confilts of twenty-four chambers (feven feet and a half by feven) diltinguilhed by the twenty-four letters of the alphabet, and each prifoner had a feparate room. There were forty-nine prifoners, June 17, 1783. In fome large rooms there were five or fix men, and in one room at the top of the houfe ten women (vagrants). Here is no court. The torture is not aboliflied : the gaoler told me he had feen a man fuffering on the torture-Jlool for forty-eight hours.

Debtors are fent to another prifon	the	creditor	is obliged

to advance a month’s aliment. In 1778 I faw there an	who	had

his wife and two or three children with him but they were not permitted to ftay at night.

O	At

Digitized by

Google

Liege

Prisons,

Brussels

Prisons.

Treuren

BERG H.

98

APPENDIX.

Brussels At the gate	De Laeckettis the On the firft floor there is a

Prisons. chapel, and a large hall with feven fmall rooms or rather cages with apertures to them. Over thefe are fix rooms a little bigger, for women. June 17, 1783, there were here no prifoners.

At the gate D’Anderlecbtthere is a prifon for petty offenders, who are committed for one, two or three, to fix weeks. Their allowance one penny a day. *

Hospital. The hofpital of S.Jean for the fick is under the care of the Religieufe of S. Auguflin. The wards were clofe ; and at night, as the furgeon faid, “ offenfive beyond defcription. ”

House of In the houfe of correflionin 1778, the prifoners were all employed, and had Correction. a careful and attentive keeper. Some tailors and fhoe-makers were at work j but molt of the men were occupied in the manufacture of paper-hangings; carving the moulds, grinding the colours, and ftaining the paper. The •women prifoners were entirely feparated from the men, and were employed in making lace. In December 1781 this houfe was empty, for the prifoners had been removed to Vilvorde, to apartments lefs airy and convenient.

VlLVORDE

House of Correction.

The new houfe of correflion at Vilvorde was occupied in 1781. There were a hundred and fixty-eight men and eighty-fix women, clothed in an uniform of light-coloured cloth. They are divided into three claffes; and the clafs to which each of them belongs, together with the number that diftinguifhes his room, is marked in red, on his clothes and linen. The principal employment of both fexes was fpinning cotton ; but fome of the men were weaving,

The ajfzx of bread was hung up on the front of the Maifon Ville.

oz.

Nov. 14, 1778, and June 17, 1783, fine white bread 9

fecond fort 10

another fort 11 for one^/wr, or about a penny.

to the coarfe	or  lb.	brown bread, oz.
roll weighed	0	9
“ white bread	I	12
I houfehold	2	6
..coarfe rye	3	6

others

Digitized by ^ooQie

FLANDERS.

99

others making clothes, or fhoes; and fome of the women were fpinning flax, others mending the linen, or making lace.—Moft of the floors are of plafter, and cannot be wafhed. There were feparate work-rooms and refedtories to each clafs, which I found offenfive, the windows being all fhut, though the weather was calm and fine. But the pajfages, into which all the bed-rooms open, were much more offenfive. When I faw this houfe before it was inhabited, I conjectured this would be the cafe, and though I took the plan, I did not chufc to publifh it.

While I was there, a prifoner was brought in:	he	was	immediately

lhaved—examined by the furgeon—walked—clothed in the uniform-—and then conduced to his clafs.

There is a room for the magiflrates, but, on account of its diftance from BruJJels, they too Jeldom attend. The countenances of the prifoners, evidently befpoke inattention and negledt. The regulations for this houfe were publilhed at BruJJels Feb. n, 1779, in two edidts; the firft, for the direction of the governors, in French and Low-Dutch; the other, for the difeipline of the houfe, in	French, containing fixty articles, which are well worth attention, in any

country where fimilar houfes are eredted.

At	Ghent, in the prifon De	Mamelockernear the Matjon de , the allowance

now is not in money, but in provifions. June 17, 1783, here Nvere five debtors and thirty-four criminals, as the prifon for the	is	difeontinued.—This

prifon is made very offenfive by the fewers. The torture is not abolifhed : lately a man fat twenty-four hours on the edgedJlool.

In the	BiJJjop's prifon,at the back of his palace, there are feveral cages which

open into fmall offenfive rooms. In June 1783, there were three prifoners.

In the ho/pital in this city there are two halls; that for men (a hundred and eighty feet by fifty-three) is vaulted, and lofty as a church.

I went over the houfe of correction (LdMaifon de Force) with one of the magiftrates in 1778, and found that they were ftill carrying on a well-regulated manufadlory. There were two hundred and eighty men prifoners, and one hundred and feventeen women. Thefe latter had on the clothes, and were at work. Moll of them were fpinning or knitting, ranged in proper order, attentive and tjuiet. I was informed that all the prifoners were allowed one fifth of their earnings for themfelves. I brought home fpecimens of the ,

O 2	as

Digitized by

Google

VILVORDE

House of Correction.

Ghln r Prisons.

Hospital.

House of Correction.

IOO

APPENDIX.

Ghent House of Correction.

as I did of the paper from Brujfels; which I mention, becaufe I know an idea has prevailed, that no manufacture can be carried on by conviCts to any valuable purpofe.

The number of criminals in December 1781 was two hundred and fix. They were fpinning—weaving—making nets—making and mending clothes— or working in the bake-houfe and kitchen ; and appeared clean and healthy. The doors of the bed-rooms were open while they were out in the day-time ; and none of the rooms were in the lead offenfive.—In another quarter, the number of petty offenders was one hundred and fix, who were employed in the fame manner with the criminals above-mentioned, except fome who worked as carpenters, turners, and fmiths, for the ufe of the houfe. On the women’s fide there were a hundred and fifty, who were wafhing—fpinning—making and mending the linen—or at work in the kitchen. Their bread, foup and meat were good and plentiful, and all befpoke the care and attention of the director. If, however, I venture to point out fome defeCts in fo good an inftitution, that others may avoid them, I hope to be excufed.—The rooms and corridors are too low—the infirmaries are not fufficiently detached—there are not proper work-rooms—the women have not feparate dormitories—tfye fewers are improperly placed—the diftribution of provifions, being but once a day, is not frequent enough—and the bowls, being of wood, cannot eafily be kept clean.

The architect not having provided a fufficient number of work-rooms, the two that werejately ereCted, were much more crowded than thofe at	,

and yet they were not like them, offenfive. This furprifed me at firft, till I confidered that the difference was owing probably to the clothes of the prifoners at Vilvorde being of wool, and the particular offenfivenefs of the bed-rooms there.—A lift of fuch prifoners as behave well is annually fent to the Emperor (about Good Friday). In 1782 twelve received their pardon.

At my vifit in 1783, I found here a great alteration for the worfe; the flourifliing and ufeful manufactory deftroyed; and the looms and utenfils all fold, in confequence of the Emperor’s too hafty attention to a petition from a few intereftcd perfons. That which ought to be the leading view in all fuch houfes, is now loft in this houfe. Many formerly afcribed the comfort and happinefs of their lives to the trades they here learned, and the attention bCre paid them ; but now, the men, and women (the former three hundred and twenty-fix in number and the latter a hundred and fifty) do not earn, one with another, feven farthings a day. Their victuals are alfo reduced the meat

from

Digitized b’y

Google

FLANDERS.

IOI

from half a pound to fix ounces, and greens from three to two farthings worth a day. Their bread, made in the houfe, is now ammunition-bread. In confe-quence of this vile policy, I found the afpett of the prifoners quite changed ; nor could I wonder to hear that a quarter of the houfe is foon to be fitted up

Ghent House of Correction.

for an infirmary.

In the	prifon at Antwerp there are two rooms for citizens j and up flairs	Antwerp

there is a cage, about fix feet and a half fquare, into which criminals are put	Prison.

before the torture.—A criminal, while he fuffers the torture, is clothed in a long fhirt, has his eyes bound, and aphyfician or furgcon attends him: and when a confeffion is forced from him, and wine has been given him, he is required to fign his confeflion ; and about forty-eight hours afterwards he is executed.

In a fmall dungeon is a ftone feat like fome I have feen in old prifon towers, in which it is faid that formerly prifoners were Juffocated by brimjloney when their families wifhed to avoid the difgrace of a public execution. No perfon here remembers an inflance of this kind ; but about thirty years ago there was a private execution in the prifon.—In this prifon in 1778 there were only two prifoners. In November 1781 there were three prifoners for debt; their allowance was three halfpence a day. June 15, 1783, there was not one prifoner in this city.

In 1778 here was a houfe of correction. The river ran under it; on fide House op were the keeper’s apartments; on the other, the warehoufe and the room for Correction. the magiflrates. * On three fides of a paved court there were thirteen cells for the men, and over them the rooms for the women. On one fide of the court were the young women who were put in by their parents or relations; and on the other, the criminals. All the men were employed in fpinning cotton, fo were fome of the women, and the reft in making lace. A pound of cotton at a time was delivered to each ; for fpinning which, thirteen f were paid.

I found, by the books, that at firft coming, fome did not earn more than	»

feven or eight fous in a week, but foon after they earned from twelve to fourteen. Rye bread (to the value of half a	each	meal)	and	water,

%

* In foreign houfes of correction there is a room appropriated to the ufc of the regents or

Digitized by oogie

102

APPENDIX.

Antwerp House of Correction.

was their allowance; and whatever they had more than this, they were required to pay for out of their earnings. They were obliged to put on clean linen every week, towards walking which each paid a	The	(loves	were

heated twice a day, and candles and lamps were provided, at the expence of the magi Urates.

There were three rooms for the ungovernable. One of them had a floor made of triangTilar pieces of wood a few inches afunder. The prifoner was chained in fuch a manner in the middle of this floor, that he could move but a few fteps; and being allowed no Ihoes, whether he Hood or lay down, he mull have been in a very uneafy pollure.—This room therefore was dreaded by the prifoners. The other rooms were abodes fo dark and folitary as to be almoll equally dreadful.

The men were never differed to go out, except on Sundays and other holidays, when they went to the chapel, in which they had feats below. The women fat in a gallery with a lattice of wood before them. Here, and all'o in the pril'on, a table of regulations was hung up, which was read in public by the chaplain the firft Sunday after the entrance of every prifoner.— Thefe regulations confided of thirty-fix articles, from which I have taken the following extracts.

“ The prifoners mud be fubmiffive to the keeper and to his wife; and if they think themfelves injured, mud complain to the regents.—The times fixed for riling are, at half after fix in the morning from December id to February 15th, and all the red of the year at five, or half after five; but on Sundays and holidays at fix.—The times of meals are fixed at feven, twelve, and feven. The prifoners are allowed, at their own expence, at breakfad a pint of tea; and at dinner foup or broth, or a pint of tea or fmall beer, and at fupper the fame quantity of tea or beer ; and on Sundays and other holidays a certain quantity of boiled meat: and every week, a pound of butter, and fruit to the value of half a	Jliver.*—Every day the keeper is obliged to prepare two forts

of foup or broth, and at feven in the morning to give the prifoners their choice of either fort, or none.—After fervice on Sundays, the men are permitted to walk in the court; and the women in the gallery half an hour, under the in-fpeftion of the keeper and officers.—They forfeit half a	, every time they

curfe or fvvear, or make a dillurbance in the chapel; and alfo every time they

* A Jliver is about a penny.

arc

Digitized by

Google

FLANDERS.

are not up in half an hour after they are awakened by the keeper, and for every Antwerp hour they fleep longer.—If they perfift in infulting the keeper or his wife after House of admonition, they pay a ftiver, and are alfo punifhed by having their doors or windows fall clofed up.—If they make any noife or difturbance after nine at night to break the reft of their fellow-prifoners, they are ordered to forfeit a Jcalin* and to be punifhed at the difcretion of the regents : who are likewife empowered to make fuch alterations as they think proper in the rules ; and in cafe of ficknefs or old age to give indulgences to the prifoners, with refpeCt to their diet, times of rifing, &c.” In November 1781, the regulations ftill hung up in the chapel, though the prifoners were removed to

The	hofpital of S. Elizabeth has a lofty ward for each fex; yet, as the upper Hospital.

windows do not open, thefe wards are offenfive. The beams and joifts are not plaftered, as they ought to be. The beds have no tellers j as all have (improperly) in the infirmaries in Holland.

In the Orphan-houje the bed-rooms were large, and had oppofite windows.	Orphan-

The beds were laid on boards highly varnifhed, on iron bedfteads (five feet	house.

eleven inches by three feet feven) and placed in the middle of the rooms, that the windows may be kept open. The bed-rooms and refectories were quite clean.

In the city of Aloft is the gaol for the territory, which includes a hundred Alost. and thirty-feven villages. December 2, 1781, there were in this gaol feven prifoners. Three were confined in a dark room; one, in another room ftill more horrid; and the remaining three in a ftrong cagej notwithftanding which, two of thefe three were loaded with irons. They are never permitted to go out: one faid he had been confined fourteen months, and	,	feven.

Their pale fickly countenances befpoke inhumanity and mifery. June 18,

1783, there were four men, and one woman.

In th zRaJp-houfeat Bruges, December 1781, there were fifty-eight men who were Bruces fpinning and weaving. Each has his dormitory over the work-rooms. The RAiP-H0USE rooms of the turnkeys are furnifhed with alarm bells. One of the prifoners had been confined thirty-four years, for an attempt to fet fire to this houfe; fince which the cielings have been arched with brick between the joifts.—

This houfe is under the care of four friars and four ftfters.—I afked one of

# A fcalin is about fixpence*

the

Digitized by <^»ooQle

104

APPENDIX.

Alost.

Hospital.

Ostend Pr ISON.

Lille

Prisons.

Citadel.

the friars, how much the prifoners earned ? Pie anfwered,	feven	pence

a day, but, one with another, no more than about two pence a day.”

The	ho/pital in this city is a very fpacious and airy room, with a wainfcot

partition or fcreen which divides the men from the women. The great attention of the nuns diftinguifhes the hofpitals in Roman catholic countries. Their reclufe life gives them a pale look, and is the reafon, probably, why the wards of the patients are kept too clofe j here, however, they look very healthy. There are twenty of them, who rife at four, and are conftantly employed about their numerous patients. The di reft refs of the pharmacy laft year celebrated her jubilee, or fiftieth year of refidence.—Thefe afked, whether I was a catholic. I anfwered, “ I love good people of all religions.” Then, faid they, “ we hope you will die a catholic.”

The pri/onat OJlend,which is near the town-houfe, confifts of nine rooms, but no court. May 27, 1781, there were in it four debtors, and feven criminals} and June 21, 1783, two debtors and four criminals. Eight pence a day is paid to the gaoler for each criminal and inl'olvent debtor; for which they have one pound and a half of bread, and . an allowance of meat except on meagre days. The gaoler is allowed two pence a day for each, and fifteen pence at entrance, and difcharge. The chaplain officiates on Sundays and holidays} he, and the furgeon are paid by the city.

The ’Tour de S. Pierre at Lille is an old building. There were in it May 24, 1783, three debtors, five fmugglers and four vagrants. Five were fick in a	very offenfiveroom, with only one bed. Allowance is one pound and

a half of bread. The fmall and dark dungeons down fifteen fteps, I was glad to find unoccupied. — I have abundant reafon for thankfulnefs to divine providence, for recovering me from a fever which I caught of the fick, in this prifon, at my laft vifit. -

At the City -prifon there were fourteen prifoners : their allowance confifts of bread, butter, and fmali beer. The dungeons were empty.

The unhealthy countenances of the prifoners at the Citadel fliew the pernicious eftefts of lying in cajerns, or damp rooms under the fortifications. May 26, 1783, here were three hundred and forty prifoners, moft of them deferters. In the fick-rooms, which were very clofe and dirty, there were eighty-fix; fome of whom, though dying, were in irons. The /curvy has

lately

Digitized by

Google

P O R T U G A L.

105

lately made great havock here.—Particular attention fhould be paid to air Lille . ■ and cleanlinefs, where prifoners have no employment. Humanity to them. Citadel. and alio to their keepers and vifitors, demands this.

In the General hofpital for the poor of both fexes there were about two Hospitals. thoufand in May 1783. Thofe advanced in years are allowed one third of their earnings. There were upwards of three hundred of the girls making lace, for each piece of which they are rewarded with a finall donation. Many of the boys, though lodged and boarded here, learn trades in the city j and at twenty years of age, all of both fexes are difcharged from the hofpital. The girls looked healthy, and their dormitories, infirmaries, and work-rooms were clean. — The internal regulations of this houfe, and of the infirmary,

(Hotel-Lieu)are very good j but (taking up more than twenty pages) they are too long to be inferted.

The two	hofpitals La	Comteffe and St. Sauveur are lofty buildings, defigned

only for the admifiion of men, for in this city the hofpital laft defcribed is the only one that takes in women. The patients are diftinguilhed into three clafles, viz. wounded—very fick—and recovering. Each clafs has a feparate ward, and every patient a feparate bed. When a fick perfon arrives at either of thefe hofpitals, his bed is immediately Ihewed him ■, after which one of the fillers brings warm water to him, walhes his feet, dries them, and kifies one foot. Another brings clean fheets and a clean towel. A man-fervant makes and warms the bed, and the patient goes dire&ly into it. All the patients are kindly attended by the Nuns, but from prejudices caufed by their retired mode of living, fome inconveniences arife, fuch as, neglefl of wafliing the rooms—and opening the windows; in confequence of which, the wards are rendered oflenlive, and very unhealthy, particularly in the night time.

P O R T . U G A L.

Imprisonment for debt is prohibited in Portugal by an ordinance made in 1774. There is an intire feparation of the fexes in prifons and infirmaries. No garnilh is taken in prifons; but I found the bad cuftom prevalent here

P	of

Digitized by ^ooQie

APPENDIX.

io 6 Portugal.

Lisbon

Prisons,

of detaining prifoners for the gaoler’s fees: thofe fees are often paid by a charitable fociety called the Mijericordia. Many from the firft families in the kingdom are of this order. They fend provifions twice a week to feveral prifons; and, like the Confraternita della mijericordia at	pay great attention to

capital convi&s. Criminals here are often kept in confinement for feveral years before they are brought to trial; and fometimes, even after being tried and condemned, they lie in prifon fome years before they are executed.* I faw fome convifts at Lijlon going from prifon to embark for the fettlements in the Brafils. Such convidls as are defigned for India are enrolled as foldiers, and fent to a houfe (or hofpital) on the other fide of the river, where they are kept fome weeks, to bathe, and to be better clothed and fed, that they may be properly prepared for their long voyage.

The great prifon at Lifbon, Limoiero, (formerly a palace) is defigned for the reception of prifoners from the provinces as well as from the city. There were feven hundred and feventy-four, on Feb. 1783. In one of the lower wards there were feventy criminals, but none in irons. On the firft floor there were many who paid for better accommodations, and received no donations from the mijericordia. Here civil and criminal caufes are tried in a large hall called Caza da Supplicafam, which the prifoners ufe for a day-room and lodging-room : the courts of juftice are opened at eight or nine in the morning. There are two infirmaries, one for each fex: in that for men there were eighteen perfons, in Angle beds with proper bedding:	their	room	looked

towards the river, and was fpacious, clean and airy. In the room for the condemned, the beds were in recefles. Over thefe, in a large gallery latticed, there were beds for the fick from the Jecrete or private chambers. — In this country, and alfo in Spain,one feldom fees glafs windows j but in prifons,

In the	prifon at the	caftle, the wards below as well as thofe in the great

prifon, are defigned for thofe that cannot pay j and the firft floor for thofe who pay a ftipulated fum. Several fmall rooms open into a common paffage, in fome of which (the Jecrete) the prifoners are clofely confined. There is no courtyard either to this prifon or to that called Limoiero.

* Bepore the Marquis of Pwh&j/’s adminiftration, gaolers ufed often to let their prifoners out on their parole. One thus favoured, was ordered for execution feven years after he had been condemned. On the gaoler’s fummons, he immediately returned to the prifon from his work in the country. For this punftual regard to his promife he received a pardon.

The

Digitized by

Google

PORTUGAL.

The ecclefiaftical	prifon (Aljubey)near the great church, is under the jurif- Lisbon

diftion of the Patriarch. It confifts of four rooms and a fmall chapel. Here Prisons. were confined fix priefls, and three women. In this and the other prifons, the ' prifoners may be converfed with through iron grates.

In a prifon by the rope-walk near the river, many of the nobles and priefts were confined in the time of the marquis of	adminiftration. Here,

nineteen vaulted rooms open into a paffage : I meafured fome of them, which were about twenty feet by nine. The wall was fix feet two inches thick. In the entrance to each room were three doors, the middle one was an iron grate with round bars. Over each of the doors there was an aperture to admit light, except in two rooms called Jecrete, which were totally dark.*

The prifon at Bellem (about two miles from Liflsoti) has four rooms below,	Bellem

and feveral on the firft floor for thofe who pay. Criminals lefs atrocious than	Prison.

thofe fent to Limoiero are here confined. The prifoners fubfill by charitable donations ■, and the gaoler told me, that he had a right to a fee from every one difcharged.

In th	t Arjenalare four large rooms for the flaves or convicts, moll of whom Lisbon

are Moors. Some work at the rope-walk, others fetch water, a few are clofely Arsenal. confined, and three or four chained to one fpot j one of whom (an Italian) told me he had been thus confined eight years ; another, four years. The reft were chained two and two together, and thofe that went out had a running chain between them, which was taken off as foon as they returned into the Their allowance from government was one pound of bifeuit a day, and fome rice, and half a pound of meat three times a week.j- They were employed in carrying water to this prifon, the infirmary, and the great prifon ; and guarded by the military.

The Infirmary for the marines and flaves confifted of two remarkably good Infirmary. rooms, lofcy, clean and quiet. The flaves had each a bed with fheets, and great attention was paid to them.

* When the prifon of the inquifition was rebuilt after the earthquake of 1755, a few perfons faw the rooms of confinement. One gentleman told me, that they open into a long paffage, like thofe at the prifon by the rope-walk, but were fmallcr and under ground.

+ In this country the prifoners have a difpenfation to eat meat the two firft days of Lent (viz. Afh Wednefday and Thurfday) fo that families may fend in to them, the remains of their flefh provifions.

P 2	A	manufaftory

Digitized by k^ooQle

APPENDIX.

A	manufablory was begun in the	about two years ago, for the employ-

ment of vagrant and deferted children, in carding, fpinning, weaving, making ■lace, embroidery, &c. About a thoufand children were thus employed here. Such an inftitution may be a great advantage in a country like this, where young people are very much addidted to idlenefs. But would it not be better, if greater numbers of them were employed in the arts which are moft ufeful and necefiary ?

Hospitals. ' The General hojpital of S. Joze, (formerly the Jefuits college) has fifteen wards for men and fix for women. The number of the former was five hundred and ninety-three; of the latter, two hundred and eighty. Some of the wards were fpacious (forty-fix feet wide,) and had only two rows of beds, in recejfes. Thefe recedes open into a pafiage two feet nine inches wide. The lower wards, particularly thofe for the infane, are too clofe.

The Military hojpital of S. Joao de	(in	which	were	one	hundred and

feventy-one patients) was formerly a convent, and not ufed for an hofpital till fince the earthquake of 1755. I thought the wards too clofe.

The Englijh hojpital for merchant's feamen, (adjoining to their burying-ground) conlifts of two or three rooms, in which at my firft vifit March 3, 1783, were feven patients. The rooms were clean, the vi&uals good. This hofpital has fix vijitors, each of whom attends two months. The names of the vifitors and their months of attendance for this year, I faw hung up in the ftudy of our worthy confuL Sir John Ilort, by whom this beneficial mode of infpeflion was firft propofed.

The Englijh marine hojpital is on the fouthern fide of the 'Tagus, which is here about two miles over. The hofpital has two wards on the ground-floor, in which I found no patients. Eight or ten	failors	had lately died

here of a malignant fever. In the upper ward were fourteen	men,

each of whom had a bed. The fide-wall was damp, the ground being ten feet high againft it, and all the rooms were very dirty.—This hofpital is rented. On many accounts, it fhould be on the Lijbon fide of the river, where every advantage of fituation might be chofen. Gentlemen would then undertake the infpeftion of it; the head furgeon might daily attend ; and our feamen here would not be fo liable as they are, to be decoyed into foreign fervice.

In the Mijericordia hojpital for	there were between eighty and

ninety children, moft of them Moors. They looked healthy and clean. Each

nurfe

108

Lisbon

Castle.

Digitized by

Google

SPA

I N.

IC9

nurfe had four infants under her care. There is a cradle on the outfide Lisbon. which turns on an axis, with a bell to give notice.—Baftardy in this country is attended with little difgrace, children not born in wedlock being allowed to inherit; and this, perhaps, may be the reafon why the number of foundlings in this hofpital is fo inconfiderable.*

The prifoners at Evora and Ehas fubfift by charity. Some of them had Evora been confined three, four, or five years, without being brought to trial.	Prison.

The	hofpital at Evora	had a recefs for the bed of each patient; thefe receffes Hospital.

were lined with glazed tiles. The wards in all the hofpitals I faw in this country, were much too clofe.

Some of the prifons which I vifited, had a pafiage to the ftreet and to the lodging-rooms, fecured on both fides by iron grates, at which mod of the prifoners were begging.

SPAIN.

1 entered Spain at Badajoz, March 9, 1783. This country abounds Spain. with charitable inftitutions, and there are at prefent few or no beggars in it.

Moft of the prifons have courts for men, with fountains or running water in the centre, and corridors for fhade. The fame feparation of the fexes which I obferved in the Portuguefe prifons, takes place here; and it is the cuftom likewife, as in Portugal,for the gaolers to demand fees of prifoners before they are difcharged. A condemned criminal, after the judges have made their report, is feldom pardoned by the king. After condemnation, he is called from the other prifoners into the chapel, where his fentence is read to him by a fecretary, and a friar attends to exhort and

* The price of bread at Lijbon.

lb. oz.

0	8	of fine white bread coil one Vinten.

1	15	of brown —	two	Vintcns.

Two Vintens are equal to two pence three farthings.

comfort

Digitized by v^ooQle

I 10

APPENDIX.

Asylums.

B ad a joz

Pr ISONS.

comfort him, who never leaves him till he is executed. The fentence is generally read on Saturday, and the execution ordered for the Monday following.

When a confeflion is extorted from a criminal by	it	is	read to him

twenty-four hours afterwards, that he may either confirm or retrad it. But in fome of the provinces this lhocking practice does not take place.

It is the cuftom at Madrid for two of the privy council to vifit the prifons j and they often either reverfe or alter the fentences of the inferior judges. When I was there, the fentence of one condemned to the Prado prifon for eight years, was altered to four months ; another fentenced to the fame prifon for fix months, on account of his large family was difcharged.

Some of the churches in Spain are afylums for debtors and criminals. At Madrid there are only two, S. Sebajlian for men, and S. Luis for women. At the former, there were five perfons} one of whom faid he had been there two years. At the latter, there was only one. A pavement round thefe churches, about three feet wide, is the verge of the privilege.*

I found more attention paid to prifoners, and the prifons kept cleaner, in the capitals of Portugal and Spain, than in the provinces.

At Badajoz moll of the prifoners in one of the prifons looked unhealthy, and were deferters and fmugglers: their allowance of bread was a pound and a half per day. There is a Military hojp'ttal belonging to this prifon, to which the fick are removed, and in which I faw eleven patients. The entrance to this hofpital is by a court; and moft of the wards open to an interior court like other Mocrijb buildings.

There is another prifon at Badajoz. The prifoners were begging at the grates; for they fubfill partly by alms, and partly by felling purfes, which they make in the prifon.

* Dr. Moore, in his View of Society and Manners in Italy, judicioufly obferves, that (( the “.afylum which churches and convents offer to criminals, operates againft the peace of “ fociety, and tends to the encouragement of this lhocking cuftom (fabling) in two dif-“ ferent manners: firft, it increafes the criminal’s hopes of efcaping ; fecondly, it diminilhes, “ in vulgar minds, the idea of the atrocity of the crime. When the populace fee a murderer “ lodged within the facred walls of a church, prote&ed and fed by men who arc revered on “ account^of their profellion, and the fuppofed fanttity of their lives ; mull not this weaken tf the horror which mankind naturally have for fuch a crime, and which it ought to be the x\ aim of every government to augment ? ” Letter XLIII.

At

SPAIN.

111

At	Talavera there were three bqfpitals. In the largelt (Cannon's) the two

wards were fpacious and airy. That for men had eight iron bedfteads, and the other fix. Adjoining to the men’s ward, there was a neat room and bed for fick decayed ecclefiaftics.

At ‘Toledo there are two prifons. In one of thefe there were only eight prifoners. But in the other, which was the principal prifon, there were, March 16, 1783, two hundred and twenty prifoners j moft of whom lay under the corridors in a fmall court: many were loaded with irons, and almoft all looked unhealthy. In the two fick rooms on the firft floor, feveral miferable objects were dying in their beds. On my obferving to the gaoler, that the prifon was crowded, he informed me, that a fortnight before it had been more crowded, a hundred having been then removed to the arfenal at (in Murcia.)

In the bofpital of S. Juan de Dios there is only one ward, in which there were fix beds, each of them placed in a recefs, eight feet by fix feet three inches.

Thj: bofpital of S. Juan Baptijla (founded by one of the archbifhops) is finely fituated at a little diftance from the city. It has fummer and winter wards for each fex, exactly limilar, except that the wards for fummer are more airy : the windows open to the floor. The men’s wards are twenty-four feet wide, with two rows of beds in lofty	receffes, in each of which is an aperture for

frefh air. The women’s wards were clean, the furniture of their beds linen, but not placed, as the beds of the men were, in receffes. Adjoining to the wards there is a fpacious corridor for walking.

The principal Prifon (La Cartel de Corte) at	',	has	an elegant front,*

with this infcription, Reynando la Magcjiad de Felipe IV. anno de 1634, con acuerdo del Consejo se fabrico esta Cartel de Corte para comodidad, y seguridad de los presos.

“In the reign of his majclty Philip IV. A. D. 1634, by dire&ion of the “ council, this Court Prifon was erefted for the convenience and fecurity of “ prifoners.” The number of prifoners, March 1783, was one hundred and forty men and forty women. There are many rooms on the upper floors about fifteen feet by ten, fome with ftone bedfteads and iron hooks for chaining the prifoners. In fome of the rooms there were three or four prifoners, in

• See Plate XVII.

others

Digitized by

Google

Talavera

Hospitals,

Toledo

Prisons.

Hosp it als.

Madri d Prison.

I I 2

A P P E N D I

Madrid others but one. Here are two courts ; one of them, in which were mod of the

prifonors, was paved and had arcades on two fides, and a fountain in the middle.* Some of the prifoners had irons on both legs, with a ftrong bolt between. Tliefe lay on barracks in dungeons down twenty-two fteps. In one of the dungeons the gaoler has beds, which he lets to thofe who will pay him a vcllon and half (3fd.) a night. The women were in one large room ; none of them in irons. In the infirmary, which was a large and clean room, the men lay fmgle, and were not in irons.—The provifions were good ; the bread fine, the allowance exactly one pound per day. The gaoler has the liberty of taking fome prifoners into his houfe, each of whom pays twenty-five dollars for the term of his confinement. He has rooms alio for which fix dollars are paid, befides a real vellon and a half a night for a bed. He can take off the irons of a prifoner, on the payment of two dollars. The courts are held within the prifon. The whole prifon was clean ; and the gaoler, as I was informed by one'of my countrymen there confined, whom I frequently vifited, is humane and attentive to his prifoners, who all looked healthy.

The city prifon (La Cancel de Villa) is like the former, but has only one court. There were in it about one hundred and twenty men and thirty women. The rooms and dungeons were very dirty and offenfive; and the walls of one of the torture-rooms was ftained with blood. I was forry to find fuch traces of this practice among people, in other refpefts generous and humane.

La Cancel de la Corona is a prifon for ecclefialtics. There were in it -five priefts, one of whom had his wife with him.

At the gate of the poll-office, there are four or five dungeons where vagrants, beggars, &c. are confined for a few days, till they are fent to San Fernando. There were here five men and two women: their allowance was twelve	quartils(nearly four-pence) a day, befides alms received at the

grates from paffengers.

The Prado prifon, near the public walk of that name, is one long room in which are barrack-bedfteads. Here were upwards of one hundred prifoners: fome were chained to the floor, or to the barracks on which they lay; fome worked on the roads, bridges, See. Others having been marines, were to be fent to the docks. They are divided into three claffes. To thofe who

* Near the fountains in the Spar.ijh gaols are convenient Jlont troughs, at which I generally faw the men-felons wafhing their linen.

work

SPAIN.

”3

work on the roads, &c. the allowance is feventeen	(five	pence)	j	to

marines, fourteen ; and to thofe in irons, who do not work, twelve quartils.

I faw about fifty at work out of the-city gates, and afked fome of them, which they preferred ; working, or confinement ? They readily replied, the former ; but added, that they were not forced to work hard. I obferved that the	guard, with them and at the prifon, were calm and Jleady.

San	Fernando, about	eight miles from the city, is a houje of correSfion for

petty offenders, vagrants, and beggars. Here were three hundred and nine men and five hundred and forty-feven women. Some were carrying ftone to a lime-kiln j fome making and wafhing the linen of the houfe j and fome were fpinning linen and worfled. The work-rooms were thirty-two feet wide} the infirmaries were fpacious, at the top of the houfe. The prifoners were clothed in an uniform, and each was allowed t\\ft> pair of fhoes and dockings. The men’s apartments were clean, but the women’s (as is generally the cafe in the Spanijh prifons and hofpitals) were much cleaner. Every one had a bed, a mattrefs and two coverlets. The women here have a court as well as the men; and both courts are commanded by the keeper’s balcony. The pro-vifions were good : the bread allowance is twenty ounces a day. Two of the prifoners attend at dinner, to fee that each is ferved with his full ‘portion of foup (three quarters of a pint). They are allowed three feafts in a year, Chriftmas, Eafter, and San Fernando’s day. Here is a fhop for the fale of wine, the quality and price of which are fixed by the magiftrates } but no fpirituous liquors are permitted to be fold. No fees are paid at entrance, or difcharge. The prifon is attended by a phyfician, a furgeon and a chaplain: it has alfo a guard, confifting of thirty foot and eight horfe, which is changed every month. I muft add, that the keeper feemed to be humane and attentive.*

The

Madrid

Prado

Prison.

San

Fernando.

# I have the regulations of this well-condu&ed houfe, but fhall here copy only the diet table.

The Table of Diet for San Fernando.

Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays. Twenty ounces of bread, eight ounces of mutton, and two ounces of garvances (i. e. yellow beans dried).

Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays. Twenty ounces of bread, four ounces of meat, and two ounces of garvances. At night, four ounces of bread in broth, or three ounces of lentils ; or two ounces and a half of jew-beans.

Fridays and meager days. Twenty ounces of bread, three ounces of dried fifh, two ounces of rice, and two ounces and a half of jew-beans.

To

Digitized by v^ooQle

114

A P P E N D I X.

Madrid

Hospicio.

The	Hofpicio,a fort of prifon, is alfo a well-regulated manufaftory, in which

the fexes are intirely feparated. A confiderable number of men, advanced in years, were picking wool. In one room, an hundred and fifty boys were fpin-ning worded ; in another, fixty were carding wool. Forty or fifty looms were employed on coarfe linen others on wide cloth. In two rooms I obferved (locking and waiftcoat frames. Some boys were carding and fpinning the down of hares and rabbits for gloves; and fome were employed in a pin manufactory. A number of tailors and carpenters I alfo faw at work. Fifty of the lead boys were under inftrudlion in the fchool. All commonly rife at fix; attend prayers, and then go to breakfaft j dine about noon j and fup at fun-fet. They have twenty-two ounces of bread, and two ounces of peafe a day, and half a pound of meat, except on meager days. There are two rooms for the confinement of the diforderly.—The regulations are the fame with thofe for San Fernando.

To make their Ollas,# they are allowed, on meat days,' eight pounds of fait butter; on Fridays, four pounds for fupper.

On Fridays, they are allowed, one pound of oil and twenty-five pounds of jew-beans, garvances, and lentils for foup-maigre.

On meat days, cayenne pepper for fauce.

Diet table for the Infirmary.

Full Diet, Breakfaft. Bread two ounces.

Dinner. Bread eight ounces, meat fix ounces. Supper. Bread fix ounces, meat four ounces.

Half Diet.	Breakfaft.	Bread	two ounces.

Dinner.	Bread	four ounces,	meat four ounces.

Supper. The fame.

Common Diet. Breakfaft.	Broth.

Dinner.	Bread	two ounces,	and	broth.

Supper. The fame.

Low Diet.	Broth only.

Chocolate, bifeuits, wine and other neceflaries are allowed the fick ; according to dif-cretionary orders from the phyfician, who is to be guided by the medical rules approved of by the body of phyficians at Madrid.

Nurses and others who attend the fick are allowed a diet of ten ounces of meat, fixteen ounces of bread, two ounces of garvances, and half a quarto (about half a pint Englijk) of wine daily.

• Olla, is a general term in Spain for a variety of ingredients boiled over a flow fire, •dix. meat, greens, pepper. See.

The

Digitized by

Google

The	Real Hojpital General,is a new building round a fpacious court (three

hundred and ten feet by two hundred) in which are two refervoirs of water. Three fides of the court have corridors, twelve feet wide. The great wards (fifty-five feet and a half wide) divided by a wall having feveral openings, are furniftied with double rows of beds on iron bedfteads (fix feet three inches by three feet two) one for each patient, and a marble flab is placed againft the wall for every two beds. The rooms are arched over, and have many apertures in the cieling, but all the windows were Ihut. At one end of each ward is an altar, at the other a fire-place. The number of men, as appeared by a lift that was given me, was five hundred and eightv-nine. A multitude of vifitors rendered the wards dirty and noify. The ftaircafes are light and airy ; the fteps are of ftone, fixteen inches wide j and the afcent (four inches) eafy.

The number of women was three hundred and two. Their apartments in the new hofpital being not yet built, they were lodged in the old wards, which are much cleaner than the men’s. In this hofpital, and at one or two in Portugal, convalefcents are put into the clofcft and worft rooms.

Here is a detached ward, for prifoners, furniftied with twenty-eight beds, and well guarded. Here are likewife rooms (carefully feparated) for infane, for dropfical; and for confumptive patients. The contagion of confumptions is	JuppoJed to	infedt not only the clothes, bedding, and furniture of rooms,

but alfo the walls and cieling. Danger has been apprehended even from the horfes of confumptive patients; and for this reafon it was thought necefiary, in an inftance that was mentioned to me, to kill the horfe of an officer who had died of this diftemper..—Befides one principal phyfician, there are eighteen others, who attend their ftated wards, fix furgeons with two hundred affirtants (praticantes) and twenty-three priefts, who all lodge and board in the hofpital.

The hojpital of S. Juan de Dios is chiefly appropriated to venereal patients. Here were one hundred and feventy-three men and twenty-eight women. The wards for the men are upftairs; the women’s apartment is on the ground-floor, and has an aperture in it fo contrived, as that their friends may converfe with them without feeing them. The wards of both fexes were cleaner and quieter than thofe of the general hofpital.

In the convent De la Latina there are two rooms for fick men, one for fummer, the other for winter, with beds in recefies.

0_2	In

Digitized by

Google

Madrid General Hospit al

Hospital S. Juan de Dios.

De la Latina.

APPENDIX.

116

Madrid

San

Francisco.

Hospitals.

De la Corte.

San Antonio.

Hermandad

DEL

Refugio.

In the convent (or hofpital) of San Fra there are two wards, one with feven beds for men, the other with eight for women. At the time of my vifit, they were ferving the afternoon chocolate.—In the hofpitals that are in convents, the rooms are much cleaner and quieter, and more attention is paid to the patients, than in other hofpitals.

Here is a charitable foundation for eight widows, of officers who died in the late war.

There are at Madrid two other hofpitals which may well deferve to be mentioned; one, called the hofpital de la ; the other, the hofpital of San Antonio.

The hofpital	de	la Corte for	the king’s fervants, is built in the form of a

crofs. It has an altar in the centre, under a cupola. The wards are vaulted and lofty. The walls are lined (five feet high) with glazed tiles. In the walls there are convenient alcoves (three feet nine inches wide, and five feet and a half high) with linen curtains before them. The beds in this hofpital are not in recefies. The patients have chocolate and bifcuit for breakfaft, and in the afternoon.

The hofpital of San Antonio is intended chiefly for the reception and accommodation of poor travelling Aujlrians, for three days. In one room there are four beds for men; in another, three for women. Here is alfo a refectory. The allowance to each traveller is two pounds of bread, one pound of mutton, and a quarter of a pound of lard a day. In the two rooms for the fick, the regulations for the phyfician, furgeon, and patients, are hung up.

In a room in this hofpital a charitable fociety, called the Hermandad del refugio, meet every evening, and then go about the ftreets, giving notice of their prefence by ftriking the pavement with flicks fhod with iron. Whatever poor and diflreffed people they meet with in this perambulation, they condudl to this hofpital, and fupply them with a fupper of bread and . eggs, one night’s lodging (in rooms which are appropriated for them), and a breakfaft of bread and raifins.* The fick they fend to the general hofpital, where one of the eighteen phyficians already mentioned, always attends to examine and

* At Madrid the fine Sfanijh tread was two pounds for two pence halfpenny. I always preferred this to the French bread, which was fomewhat dearer.

admit

Digitized by

Google

SPAIN.

admit patients.—In that part of this hofpital which is next the ftreet, there is a place into which the fick put notices of their diftrefs, in confequence of which they are immediately vifited and relieved by the fociety.

In the city of Valladolid there are four courts, the chancery, the city, the bifhop’s court, and the inquifition, each of which has a prifon belonging to it :	but in the bifhop’s prifon, of late, there have been few or no

prifoners.

Most of the prifoners in the Chancery or Province prifon lie on a bench in a long room : it has no dungeons. In the chapel is a (lone bedftead for the condemned. April 4, 1783, there were one hundred and twenty-eight men and thirteen women.

In the City prifon alfo mod of the prifoners were crowded together into one long room. This prifon did not want dungeons. I paffed through two, into a dark and damp and difmal one, in which I faw a poor creature lying on his back chained by both legs to a great ftone.—Prifoners here are confined for a long time before they are brought to trial.—Fees are demanded as at Madrid.—The prifon allowance is one real. About thirty convifts were to be fent the following week to Ferrol, they are allowed two reals a day. The prifoners are not permitted to fhew themfelves at the grates of the prifon; and the fame is true of the two principal prifons at Madrid.—Not long fince, one who was put to the torture here, denied the crime for which he was tortured, but confeffed another (a murder) and was executed for it.

I failed in my attempt to gain admittance into the inquifition at Lifhon. At Madrid, by the kind afliftance of Count Campomanes, I got accefs to the inquifitor-general, but the day on which I applied to him being a great holiday, he appointed me feven o’clock the next morning. On this holiday I faw the inquifitor, feveral of the nobility and others, go in proceflion to church, carrying the infignia of the order, which are a crofs between a palm and a fword. The next morning, the inquifitor received me at prayers, and in a few minutes conduced me to the tribunal, which was hung with red : over the inquilitor’s feat there was a crucifix, and before it a table with feats for the two fecretaries, and a ftool for the prifoner. I could not prevail on him to fhew me any other part of the prifon; but he told me that he went

round

Digitized by

Google

”7

Madrid. Valladoli D.

Chancery

Prison.

City Pr ISON.

IN QU I S 1 T I 0 N .

APPENDIX.

113

Vall

I n qu

Er,

IIo

adolid round once a month with a fecretary, and afked every prifoner whether he is it ion. jiacj any complaint to make.

The letters of the fame kind friend. Count	procured my ad-

mifTion at Valladolid. I was received at the inquifition-prifon by the two in-quifitors, their fecretaries, and two magiftrates, and conducted into feveral rooms. On the fide of one room was the picture of an Auto de Fe in 1667, when ninety-feven perfons were burnt :* at this time the Spanijh court refided at Valladolid. The tribunal room is like that at	,	but	has	an altar, and

a door (with three locks) into the fecretary’s room, over which was inferibed the words of the greater excommunication denounced againft all ftrangers who prefume to enter. In two other tribunal rooms, there were the infignia of the inquifition. In a large room I faw on the floor and fhelves, many prohibited books, feme of which were Englijh: in another room, I faw multitudes of crofies, beads, and fmall pictures. The painted cap was alfo Ihewed me, and the veftments for the unhappy victims. After feveral confultations, I was permitted to go up the private ftaircafe, by which prifoners are brought to the tribunal; this leads to a pafiage with feveral doors in it, which I was not permitted to enter. On one of the fecretaries telling me, “ none but prifoners ever enter thefe rooms;” I anfwered, I would be confined for a month to fatisfy my curioiity; he replied, “none come out under three years.” I learned, by walking in the court, and converfing with the inquifitors, that the cells have double doors, and are feparated by two walls, to prevent prifoners converfing together, and that over the fpace between the walls there is a fort of chimney or funnel, enclofed at the top, but having perforations on the fides, through which fome air and a glimmering of light enter. Thefe funnels, the inquifitors told me, are double barred : and one of them ferves two cells. . The paffages into which the cells open, have fmall apertures for the admifiion of light.—In a gloomy area at the back of the prifon, there was nothing but a great mafiiff dog.

O	O

It is well known that from this court there is no appeal.—I need not fay how horrid the fecrecy and feverity of it appear. I could not but obferve, that even the fight of it ftruck terror into the common people as they pafied. It is ftyled, by a monltrous abufe of words, the holy and apofiolic court of inquifition.

oueva The bell hc/pital in this city is the	the wards are one hundred and

spiial. eight feet by thirty, with windows at the ends. Each ward has twenty-eight beds in recedes; and two doors which open into corridors.

* Pi'gna,a famous Spanijh inquifitor, calls the proceflion,	ac	tremzndum	SpeSlaculum.

The

Digitized by

Google

SPAIN.

The pri/on at Burgosy (built, as appears by an infcription on the front in 1778) furrounds a court forty feet fquare, in which is a fountain, and a ftone trough. The cells are fourteen feet by nine and a half. They have two doors, the inner one lattice.	The	number	of prifoners	April 8, 1783, was one	hundred and forty-five	men	and feven women.	The women, as in other	gaols

in this country, are always locked up. In the men’s infirmary there were nineteen beds in recedes, but only fix patients. The architedl has been attentive to the conftrudtion of drains and fewers, for though this gaol was very dirty, it was not offenfive. In this, as in other	prifons,	there are

(locks for the punilhment of offences committed within the prifon.—No rules and orders are hung up.—Here is no torture-room.

The Hofpicio Hands near the river, and confifts of a houfe of correction, an hofpital for foundlings, and a chapel. It has two courts, one for men and the other for women, in the former of which there is a water-mill for grinding corn. Two rooms	with	beds in	recedes are	appropriated to the fick.	Four

nurfes are always prefent,	to take	care of the	infants that are brought in, till

they can be fent to be nurfed in the country. The bread is good and made in the houfe. The allowance to each perfon one pound and a half.

The diforderly are punilhed by being confined in a dark room : a woman in one of thefe rooms requefted, with tears, my interpofition for her. I applied to the chaplain, who is the fuperintendent of the houfe, and he readily confented to releafe her from her confinement.

The Hofpital del Rey at the convent of the	, about two miles from the

city, has two fpacious wards for each fex, that the chirurgical patients may be feparated from the others. Thefe wards were very clean, and the beds placed in recedes (ten feet by nine feet four inches) with curtains before thofe for the women. The other three hofpitals at Burgos refemble this noble hofpital: and have fmall botanic gardens belonging to them.

The	ptifonat Pamplona is an old building in the middle of the city. It has

three fmall courts : the prifoners lie in boxes without mattrefles or bedding. There were flocks, and alfo a dark vaulted room for the punilhment of offences committed in the prifon. The rooms being dirty and offenfive, I inquired whether epidemical dillempers had not fometimes prevailed there, and was anfwered in the affirmative, and told that about eight years ago,

119

Burgos

Prison.

Hospicio.

Hospital del Rey.

Pamplona

Prison.

eighteen

I 20

APPENDIX.

Pamplona.

House of Correction.

Asylums.

Citadel.

eighteen or twenty prifoners had died in a fhort time. Here were fixty-one men and three women April 15, 1783. Allowance to each is about two pence a day.

The upper floor of this prifon is ufed as a houfe of	for	women.

I faw twenty-eight in four rooms, all fpinning, but not with wheels. Each had a bed : the rooms were clean. The bread was good; allowance one pound and a half a day. The term of confinement, from four years to eight; but if any perfon fhould choofe to marry one confined for fmall offences, the magiflrates are ready to releafe her.—-One of the magiftrates told me that he vifited this prifon every week, to hear any complaints that might be made. I inquired, whether the keeper went with him ; he replied, that he did.

The torture is not ufed in this province (Navarre). A Angular cuftom prevails here ■, for twice in the year (the day before	,	and	eight	days

before Eajler), the Viceroy goes with the magiftrates to the council-chamber in the prifon, and releafes whom he pleafes of the prifoners. The day before I got to	Pamplona, he had releafed thirteen. A few years ago, to the furprife

of the magiftrates, all were releafed.

Two, of the four churches in this city, are ajylums for debtors and criminals, at one of which (the cathedral) there was one criminal.

In the Citadel there were one hundred and twenty flaves (or convi&s) crowded into five or fix rooms. Thofe in the upper, rooms had only a ring on one leg. Thofe in the lower rooms, about thirty in number, very fickly, were chained two and two with heavy chains, and fome for very flight offences. The rooms had barracks, but no bedding. There is the fame allowance to all, one pound and a half of brown bread and about five farthings each in money. A loaf, weighing exactly three pounds, is given to every foldier every other day j but for the prifoners, it is divided, and one half given them every day, to prevent them from felling it.-—Thofe who have only a ring, find fecu-rities for not efcaping, and fometimes are employed in the houfes in the citadel, and paid for their labour. If they efcape, their fecurities are obliged to put on the chain and to take their places. If they are retaken, their term is doubled.

Some for more atrocious crimes are fent to	, and others to the

Africanfettlemenrs.

Here

Digitized by

Google

121

s

PAIN.

Here is a large building called the Mifericordia fimilar to the hojpicio in Pamplona Madrid, in which are confined beggars, vagrants, and refractory children.	Mise*i-

Workmen alfo are here employed, and apprentices taken, to carry on a manu-	RDIA-

factory of coarfe cloth.

Near the Mifericordia there is an bofpital for orphans or children of the Hospital poor (los ninos de la doRrina). They are taught to read and work, and the F011 boys ferve in the churches. Their number was forty-five boys and thirteen PHAN5’ girls. This houfe is in part fupported by the contributions of thofe who play at ball, in a building ereCted by the city for that diverfion, which is here a favourite one.*

At the great Hofpital I found the men’s wards very dirty,j- but the women’s Hospital clean. There is a diftinCt ward for chirurgical patients, and alfo wards for fick	prifoners. I obferved, that the fame attention was paid to them, as to the

other patients, for I twice attended one of the phyficians through the wards.

All the patients lie fingle j and this falutary practice is general in the Spanijh hofpitals. Near the women’s ward, nine or ten infants lay bound hands and feet in a fmoky kitchen. In a fpacious room juft by, the governefs lodged.

On my mentioning to the phyfician before her, that the infants fhould be in that room and not in the kitchen; fhe faid it was too cold for them. I replied, the true reafon was, that Ihe thought they would difturb her reft. J

* At Madrid alfo, a part of the money collected at the play-houfe and at the bull-feafts, is appropriated to the fupport of the hofpitals.

f The floors of mod hofpitals in Spain, are laid with a foft and bad brick, and they are fometimes fprinkled but never walhed. In the men’s wards no women attend. What renders the wards in general fo clofe and offenfive as they are, is the pra&ice of continually taking fnufF and fpitting; together with an univerfal prejudice which prevails in this country, (though fo hot a country,) againfl the free admiflion of air, and walking of rooms. The cullom of walking the feet and hands of patients before they are put to bed, which I have obferved in fome hofpitals, is not known here. I am perfuaded, however, that fuch a cullom, with air and cleanlinefs, and an abftemious diet, are of more importance in hofpitals than any adminillration of phyfick.

X In this city the bread was remarkably good and cheap ; and I found the loaves, at different times, of full Jiandard weight.

lb. oz.

French bread was	I

Fine Spanijh bread	i

Good brown bread	2

10 for three halfpence. 10L	five farthings.

10	two-pence.

Before I take my leave of Spain, I mull make my moll grateful acknowledgments of the kind aflillance given me in my tour through it by Sir John Horty Count Fernan-Nuncz the Spanijh ambaffador at Lijbon, and Count Campomancs at Madrid.

R	FRANCE.

Digitized by

Google

APPENDIX.

FRANCE.

Amiens	x\t Amiens are two prifons; one for	Bourgeois et La,	the

Prisons.	other, La Conciergerie.—In the town-houfe I faw great numbers attending the

trial of a woman for confining her fon. He was then about thirty-two years of age, and had been confined fixteen years, with a feverity which had almoft deprived him of his intelle&s. The profecution was carried on by his father’s relations, who had been long folicitous for his releafe.

Paris	At	Paris,in 1783, I found two of the word of the prifons,

risons. ancj	For-l'eveque, with their horrid dungeons,	entirely demolilhed. The

debtors now are fent to a new prifon, the Hotel de la Force j and criminals are fent to the Conciergerie, or the Grand Chdtelet. The king’s declaration for this alteration, dated Auguft 30, 1780, contains fome of the mod humane and enlightened fentiments refpefting the conduct of prifons. It mentions the con-ftruftion of airy and fpacious infirmaries for the fick j Jeparate places of confinement, and courts, for men and women, and for prifoners of different claffes; and a total abolition of underground dungeons, upon this principle, that it is unjuft, that thofe who may poflibly be innocent, fhould beforehand fuffer a

Concier- The Conciergerie has an airy court (fifty-five yards by thirty-eight) with a CERIE‘ fine piazza. The dungeons are dark and offenfive. There is a new infirmary, with beds admitting only one patient in each. At my former vifits here was a tap-room, which now, to the honour of the police, is abolijhed. At feveral vifits in 1783 the prifoners were calm and quiet.*

• The number of prifoners in the Conciergerie, June i, 1776, and May 15, 1783*

On ftraw.	Men	99	—	126
	Women	22	—	O
In the infirmary.	Men	>3	—	18
	Women	H	—	O
In the dungeons.	Men	25	—	l6
Prifoners who pay	for their rooms	29	—	22
	Total	202		182

Some pay in this prifon forty-five litres a month for a room ; fome twenty-two and a half; others feven and a half.

At

Digitized by v^.ooQle

FRANCE.

123

At the Grand Chdtelet, as well as the	, the prifoners pay for

their rooms according to their goodnefs j even thofe who lie on ftraw pay one Jcu a night. In this prifon there are eight dungeons, which open into dark paffages. In four of thefe dungeons (ten feet eight inches by fix feet eight) I faw fixteen prifoners, two in irons, and all lying upon ftraw.*

The number of prifoners May 16, 17 83, in the Grand Chdtelet.

In	rooms,	-	47.

On ftraw,	-	209.

In	dungeons,	-	16.

In	infirmaries,	-	33.

' 1	305.

L’Abbaye is a prifon for the military or guards, and for fuch debtors as are men of rank. In the debtors rooms a partition of lath and plafter, detached from the brick-wall, anfwers the end of an expedient to prevent efcapes: for if the fmalleft perforation be made in the partition, it is immediately difeovered, by the mortar falling between that and the wall into the keeper’s court, through the aperture which is left for that purpofe. Here are fix fmall dungeons, in which, as the gaoler faid, there were fometimes fifty confined.

The Hotel de la Force (a new prifon for debtors, vagrants, deferters and petty offenders) has been occupied only from January* 1782. It is an airy and fpacious building, and has feveral courts and areas for the feparation'of men, and women, and the different kinds of prifoners. The courts are all clean and well fupplied with water. The number of debtors was feventy-eight men and eleven women. Over the doors are painted the price to be paid for the beds from five to thirty Jous a night. There are alfo rooms and beds for debtors that cannot pay : each of the prifoners that are poor have one pound and a half of bread and foup every day.

Here are two chapels, an airy infirmary, for each fex; and a well furnifhed apothecary’s fhop, from which this, and the other prifons are fupplied with drugs. There are fourteen turnkeys, twelve every day on duty in feparate departments; but in cafe of any riot or diforder they can readily affift one

• I chofc to vifit the prifoners in the dungeons, on maigrt days, becaufc their allowance then being only bread, a little prefent of wine is the more acceptable.

R 2	another:

Digitized by

Google

Paris

Grand

Chatelet.

L’Abb a y e.

Hotel de la Force.

124

APPENDIX.

Paris Hotel de la force.

Saint

Martin.

Saint-Eloi.

Hotel

BE VILLE.

another: two walk in each of the men’s courts. — By the lift fent into the office of the police,May 17, 1783, the number of prifoners of all defcriptions was two hundred and feventy-one, of whom many were deferters.

An Arret of parliament for the regulation of this prifon, containing twenty-nine articles,* is ordered to be read in the chapels before all the prifoners on the firft Sunday of every month, and to be fixed on the doors of the chapels, and on feveral other confpicuous parts of the prifon.

The prifon of Saint-Martin is for loofe women, who are feldom confined here for more than fourteen days. Here are fix rooms for thofe that pay fix livres a month for their beds, and four rooms for thofe that lie on ftraw. On the upper floor there are three rooms (called Jecrete) for the punifhment of the refradlory. The court is fmall. At my laft vifit there were one hundred and fifteen prifoners, fo that the rooms were crowded.

The prifon of Saint-Eloi} intended for women, is fituated in a very clofe part of the city. Here were thirty-eight prifoners; fome of whom had been confined three or four years. All were troubled with a cutaneous diforder, and fome to a very great degree. Each has one pound and a half of bread a day, and (from a charity) foup four days in a week.

At the Hotel de ville there are two rooms, in which were two men and a woman.

In this country, when prifoners have received their liberty from the king, or their creditors,, they cannot be detained a moment for fees, hire of rooms, debts contra&ed in prifon, or on any pretence whatever.

The nomination of a gaoler belongs to the magiftrates. When he has been nominated, he is propofed to the Procure ; and if, after a careful inquiry into his charafter, it appears that he has the reputation of a man of probity, he is fixed in the office, and takes an oath of fidelity. The office is freely given him without any expence whatever.

* Most of the articles of this Arret are fimilar to thofe of the Arret of 1717 mentioned page 150 ; but the eleventh article being new, I will copy it. “ Let prifonniers	a

aucun droit d'entree ni de fortit de la prifon." i. e. Prifoners Ihall pay no fee at coming in or going out of the prifon.

A PRISONER.

Digitized by

Google

FRANCE.

I25

A prisoner of rank, a very fenfible man, to whom I was fpeaking in one of Paris. my former vifits concerning gaolers, faid, “ They pay nothing to the crown,

“ and their revenue is not fmall; at the Conciergerie, it is about fifteen thoufand “ livres; at the Grand Chatelet, twenty thoufand; at	twenty

“ thoufand; at the Petit Chatelet, twelve thoufand ; at L'Abb aye, ten thoufand.

“ And all things confidered,” he added, “ prifoners have no juft reafon to “ complain of this clafs of men in France”

In 1778 I was two mornings at the Bicetre, where I faw in the two halls Bicetre. above two hundred prifoners. Such a number confined together in idlenefs, muft produce a great corruption of manners. Many at their unhappy end have afcribed their ruin to the flagitious examples they have here feen, and the inftruCtions here given them.

There were fixty-three in the infirmary, moft of them ill of the Jcorbut.

They contracted this diftemper in a year or two from their confinement, which was extremely clofe, as they were never fuffered to go out of their rooms.

Many loft the ufe of their limbs by it. I faw feveral fuch miferable objeCts at St. Louis's hofpital, where they are often admitted at the expiration of their term at the Bicetre.

The French are now fenfible of the bad police of confining perfons in idlenefs; for of late they have here fet their prifoners to work. I faw in 1783 one hundred and twenty employed in three rooms, in polilhing, &c. plate glafs. The water formerly drawn by horfes, is now drawn by feventy-two prifoners in three fets, each fet working one hour at a time, and five hours in a day. They draw every day about two hundred and forty buckets, and are paid for each bucket two Jous and a half. The prifoners are much healthier than they were at my former vifits.

The great hofpital, or Salpetriere, near the city, is for women and girls. Salpetriere. Their number is upwards of five thoufand. Many of the girls are employed on the fineft embroidery. Here are numbers of poor and infane; and a fifterhood of	religieufe refide in the houfe.	The criminals are quite feparate

from the others, and feldom feen by ftrangers : there are but few of thefe employed.—At my laft vifit there were eight hundred and twenty confined, moft of them by their parents or relations: their lodging-rooms are fix feet ten inches by five feet feven. There are three infirmaries; in two of them

the .

Digitized by ^ooQie

126

Paris.

La

Tournelle.

Hospitals.

Hotel-Dieu.

Saint-Louis.

APPENDIX.

the patients lay in fingle beds, but the other (for criminals) was crowded, and had three in a bed. The whole houfe was kept clean and quiet by the great attention of the good lifters.

Near the gate of St. Bernard is the prifon La Tournelle for thofe who are condemned to the galleys: at my vifit in 1778 there were only fifteen prifoners, who were chained two and two together. In 1783, there were ninety-three. Their daily allowance is one pound and a half of good bread, and half a pound of meat, and foup. On meager days they are allowed peafe in their foup. On their journey they have two pounds of bread, half a pound of meat, a pint of wine, and about a quarter of a pound of cheefe, or eggs.—They are fent from hence to Marfeilles, Toulon,	Brejl, &c. on the 25th of May and the 10th

of September, and are joined by many other convifts from the provinces. I was informed that in May 1778, one hundred and fixty-three went off from this prifon.

The hofpitals of Saint-Louis and the Hotel-Dieu for the fick, are indeed the two worft hofpitals that I ever vifited. They were fo crowded, that formerly I have often feen five or fix in one bed, fome of them dying.

The Hotel-Dieu is fituated in the clofeft part of the city.* The new wards are too low. In 1783, the hofpital was cleaner than at my former vifits, but in the great ward (St. Charles) and in the women’s wards, many of the patients were two or three in a bed. f

The hofpital of Saint-Louis ftands out of the city. There is a confiderable afeent to the wards, and there is no floor over them. The wards were dirty and noify, and in many of the beds there were three patients.—According to the lifts I procured at my vifits in 1783, the number of patients was.

• One cannot but wifh, that after the fire in the	a	few	years	fince,	the	hofpital

had been removed to a more airy fituation.

f Over one of the gates of the Hotel-Dieu is the following infeription, which, from its application to fuch a place, has an air of ridicule and even of profanenefs.

“ C'eft icy la Mai/on de Dieu, et la Porte du

May

Digitized by

Google

FRANCE.

	Hotel-Dieu.	Saint-Louis.
May 6,	1709,	— 662.
	16,	i7°7>	— 694.
	20,	1657*	— 660.
	21,	1708,		 66l.
Number received in 1782,	21484,	~ 3898-
Lied		3899>*	— 899.

Though thefe two hofpitals are a difgrace to , it has many other charitable foundations which do honour to it; and from which this country may derive ufeful information.

The hofpital of La Charite for men, is one of the bed in Paris. There are now two hundred and three beds, and another ward is nearly finifhed, twenty-fix feet and a half wide. All the patients lie Angle; the furniture of their beds is green, and they wear a uniform of the fame colour. Here is lately made a convenient walk for the patients. The prefentation of beds is bought, and defcends to heirs j the price for a bed is twelve thoufand	, as I was

informed by one of the fathers. The beds are always occupied ; except three or four which are referved, that immediate attention may be always paid to a patron’s prefentation. This hofpital does honour to the order of St. Jean de Lieu : the chambers of the friars are over the wards, which I think improper, becaufe it may occafion the windows of the wards to be too often (hut.

This fraternity has alfo the charge of the hofpital for	which

confifts of a hall with a brick-floor containing twenty-one beds. Adjoining is a refe&ory, where the patients (who continue here only eight days) have four meals a day, viz.at fix, nine, twelve and a half and five o’clock. They are allowed meat and wine every day in the year, Good-Friday excepted. I wifh the French phyficians were convinced of the neceflity of	(not

fprinkling) the wards.

The hofpital des petites-Maifons is fituated in a fpacious garden or court, containing a number of fmall houfes for the aged and infirm of both fexes, and fingle rooms for the infane. Here are alfo fix rooms for the fick, in which are *

* Mr learned friend Dr. Price will be pleafed to find fome alteration for the better in the Hotel-Dieu, for the number that died in 1782 was confiderably under a fifth of thofe that were admitted. See his Rmerfionary Payments, vol. I. p. 296. 4th edit.

a hundred

Digitized by

Google

127

Paris

Hospitals.

La Charite.

De Con-valescens.

Des Petite3 Maisons.

APPENDIX.

128	APPENDIX.
Paris Des Petites M A I S 0 N S.	a hundred and thirteen beds; a new room for forty beds is not yet occupied. The good fijiers kindly attend. The neatnefs and cleanlinefs I obferved here engaged me often to repeat my vifits. Rooms in the hofpital and beds in the Tick wards are bought by the opulent, as afylums for aged domeftics and poor friends.
Madame  Necker’s  Hospital.	Madame Necker’s bo/pital is a noble example of private charity. It has beds for feventy men and fixty women, who are attended by fourteen of the lifters. The medical and chirurgical patients are feparated. I advifed walhing the men’s wards; but my advice has not been taken.
Des  Incurables.	In the hofpital for Incurables there are about four hundred perfons, moft of them aged and infirm, and clothed in a neat uniform; the men in gray, the women in black. Each has a bed, two chairs, a table and a cupboard. The furniture is changed twice in a year; in winter it is green woollen, in fummer white linen. The rooms on the ground-floor open (very properly) into a fpacious and pleafant garden. The provifions were good, and ferved by the lifters, forty of whom have the care of this hofpital. A prefentation here, formerly bought for ten thou fan d five hundred , is now raifed to twelve thoufand.
Qu INZE-VI N G T s Hospital.	The uinze-vingtshofpital was founded in 1260 for the accommodation of three hundred blind perfons. Formerly they ufed to beg in the churches for fubfiftence; but lately, in confequence of the attention of Cardinal Rohan, and an increafe of the rents, an income fufficient for fupporting them has been obtained, and is now fettled on them by an Arret of March 14, 1783. They are divided into three clafles ; Angle perfons, who have twenty Jous a day— married, twenty-fix—and thole who have been married twenty-two or twenty-three years, thirty-fix Jous: thcfe allowances are paid every month. Each perfon has three pounds of fait given him thrice in the year. Wood for firing is alfo given to the moft neceffitous. The parents of children are allowed two Jous a day for every child under fixteen j befides a fum to put out their children to apprenticelhips. Every indulgence is granted of walking out, vifiting friends, &C. Several who have families increafe the means of their fubfiftence by keeping little {hops. There w'ere fifty-two of the third clafs at my vifit in 1783. — The regulations are hung up on the walls in feveral places. There are two rooms for confining the diforderly.  An

Digitized by t^OOQLe

FRANCE.

129

An infirmary is defigned, and Oculifts are to be appointed, who, befides attending the infirmary, are to attend twice in the week to give advice to others who may apply to them: an annual fum is likewile to be offered for the beft differtation on diforders of the eyes. This hofpital is a privileged place; and a chapel belongs to it in which divine fervice is conftantly performed.

At the	Foundling-kojpital near the Hotel-Dieu, the infants lie in neat	cradles

with white furniture. May 21, 1783, there were here only fifty, the reafon of which is, that they are fent into the country foon after they are received. They remain in the country five or fix years, and when they are brought back, moft of the girls are placed at Salpetriere, and the reft with the boys in the fuburb of St. Antoine, in which laft place there were at this time four hundred and fifty boys and girls. I learnt from the lifts which are made out every month, that the whole number of foundlings on this foundation on the firft of May, 1783, was thirteen thoufand feven hundred and eighty-feven.

In my tour in 1778 I had the good fortune to procure an extremely fcarce pamphlet, publifhed in 1774, written by a perfon who had long been confined in the Baftille. It is reckoned the beft account of this celebrated ftru&ure ever publilhed ; and the fale of it being prohibited in	,	under	very	fevere

penalties, it is become extremely fcarce. I have extra&ed the moft material circumftances of the defcription, and have caufed the plate to be copied from that in the work.

“ This caftle is a ftate prifon, confiding of eight very ftrong towers, fur-rounded with a fojfe about one hundred and twenty feet wide, and a wall fixty feet high. The entrance is at the end of the ftreet of St. Antoine, by a drawbridge, and great gates into the court of VHotel du Gouvernement, and from thence over another draw-bridge to the corps de garde, which is feparated by a ftrong barrier conftru<fted with beams plated with iron, from the great court. This court is about one hundred and twenty feet by eighty. In it is a fountain ; and fix of the towers furround it, which are united by walls of free-ftone ten feet thick up to the top. At the bottom of this court is a large modern corps de logis, which feparates it from the court du Putts. This court is fifty feet by twenty-five. Contiguous to it, are the other two towers. On the top of the towers is a platform continued in terraces, on which the prifoners are fometimes permitted to walk, attended by a guard. On this platform are

S	thirteen

Digitized by

Google

Paris Qu inze-

VI NGTS

Hospital,

Foundling

Hospital.

Bastille.

APPENDIX.

ij°

Bastille. thirteen cannons mounted, which are difeharged on days of rejoicing. In the corps de logis is the council-chamber, and the kitchen, offices, &:c. above thefe are rooms for prifoners of didinftion, and over the council-chamber the king's lieutenant refides. In the court du Puits is a large well for the ufe of the kitchen.

“ The dungeons of the tower de	extend under the kitchen, &c.

Near that tower is a fmall chapel on the ground-floor. In the wall of it are five nitches or clofets, in which prifoners are put one by one to hear mafs, where they can neither fee nor be feen.

“The duno-eons at the bottom of the towers exhale the moil offenfive feents, and are the receptacles of toads, rats, and other kinds of vermin. In the corner of each is a camp-bed, made of planks laid on iron bars that are fixed to the walls, and the prifoners are allowed fome draw to lay on the beds. Thefe dens are dark, having no windows, but openings into the ditch: they have double doors, the inner ones plated with iron, with large bolts and locks.

tf Of the five clafles of chambers, the mod horrid next to the dungeons are thofe in which are cages of iron. There are three of them. They are formed of beams with drong plates of iron, and are each eight feet by fix.

f< The Calottes, chambers at the top of the towers, are fomewhat more tolerable. They are formed of eight arcades of free-done. Here one cannot walk but in the middle of the room. There is hardly fufficient fpace for a bed from one arcade to another. The windows, being in walls ten feet thick, and having iron grates within and without, admit but little light. In thefe rooms the heat is exceffive in dimmer, and the cold in winter. They have doves.

“ Almost all the other rooms (of the towers) are o&agons, about twenty feet in diameter, and from fourteen to fifteen high. They are very cold and damp. Each is furnilhed with a bed of green ferge, &c. All the chambers are numbered. The prifoners are called by the name of their tower joined to the number of their room.

“ A surgeon and three chaplains refide in the cadle. If prifoners of note are dangeroufly ill, they are generally removed, that they may not die in this prifon.-—The prifoners who die there are buried in the parilh of St. Paul, under the name of domedics.

<c A library was founded by a prifoner who was a foreigner, and died in the Bajlille the beginning of the prefent century. Some prifoners obtain permiffion to have the ufe of it.

“ One

Dig zed by

Google

FRANCE.

c< One of the centinels on the infide of the cattle rings a bell every hour,	Bastille.

day and night, to give notice that they are awake: and on the rounds on the outfide of the cattle they ring every quarter of an hour.”

In inferting fo particular an account of this place, my principal intention is to excite in my readers a ftrong deteftation of defpotifm, and a love for the laws which are the foundation of our liberty.*

At the town-houfe in Bordeaux, April 27, 1783, there were in three rooms Bordeaux down twenty-feven fteps fifteen prifoners in irons, who told me they were Prisons. never out. In two rooms down thirty-one fteps there were ten men, and in another room a woman. On the ground-floor there were many confined for flight offences.

In the Palais (the prifon for the province) the men were in the court. The windows of the women’s two rooms were (improperly) toward the ftreet.

The	houfe of correction (Maifon de Force) is in a convent. The rooms were House or

neat and clean. There were twenty-four women at needle-work, who put on Correction their veils when I entered the hall.	.

The great hofpital is in a clofe part of the city. The wards for men are on the firft floor round a quadrangle. The women have three wards on the ground-floor, one for medical patients; one for chirurgical	the other

for thofe that are very ill. In many of the wards there were two in a bed. This hofpitaf is kept clean, as it is under the care of the religieufes; who have alfo the charge of the foundling-hofpital which is a fpacious building near the river.

At Madrid I found a plate of the hofpital at	f	which	I	here	infert.

* Sir William Blackstone obferves, that the preservation of perfonal liberty is of great importance to the public : “ for if once it were left in the power of any, the higheft, <( magiftrate to imprifon arbitrarily whomever he or his officers thought proper, (as in France <s it is daily pradtifed by the crown ||) there would foon be an end of all other rights and €t immunities.”

9

|| “ I have been aflured upon good authority, that, during the mild adminiftration of cardinal Flcury, above 54,000 lettrei de cachet were iflued, upon the Angle ground of the famous bulle ur.'igcmnn. ”

Commentaries, Book I. Chap. i.

f See page 96 of the State of the Prifons,

S 2	At

Hospitals.

Lyons,

Digitized by ^ooQle

i3-

St. Omer’s.

Dunkirk.

Prison.

English

Prisoners.

APPENDIX.

At La Prifon Royale> or the new prifon, at St. Omer’s, the daily allowance is a pound and a half of bread, and foup. The prifoners have clean linen every week, which is the only reafon why I mention this prifon.

In the 'prifon at Dunkirk, the French prifoners were in two or three rooms by themfelves.

Here (January 1779) I found many of my countrymen prifoners of war. In five rooms there were a hundred and thirty-three—captains, mates, pajfengers and common failors all crowded together—who lay on draw with one coverlet for every three perfons. In three other rooms there were thirteen accommodated in a better manner, becaufe mod of them were ranjomers,* and capable of paying fix Jous a night for their beds. The court was fmall, being only forty-two feet by twenty-fix; nor was there fufficient plenty of water. The bread, beer, and foup were good, and the beef tolerable, j- Each room was fupplied with two fmall faggots a day for firing. The fick (of whom there were only three) were taken to the military hofpital, and great attention was paid to them. The regulations were hung up in Englijh\ and French.

In

# A ransomer is a perfon confined as a fecurity, till the fum is paid for which a (hip has been ranfomed.

t In a former war, the contract here was twelve fous a man ; in the lad it was fifteen.

Jby the king.

RULES to be obferved by all Prifoners of War in the Kingdom of France.

Article i. The orders given by the commiflary of the marines encharged with the care of the prifoners are to be ftri&ly complied with unargued and undifputed. None of the priT foners (hall infult, threaten or abufe, much lefs ftrike the turnkey, nor any of thofe appointed to do bufinefs in the prifon, under the penalty of incurring fuch punifliment as (hall %e ordered by the commiflary of the marines, and of lofing turn of being exchanged ; nay, further, they (hall be clofe confined and deprived of one half of their food or pittance.

art. 11. All and every prifoner, when the commiflary makes review, (hall anfwer to their name or names, and if in the lift delivered to the commiflfary there be found any error, they (hall point it out, that it may be re&ified, in order to prevent the confufion that might refult from miftaking of names.

art. hi. All prifoners that (hall refufe to anfwer to their names at the review, fhall be punilhed by being deprived of their food till fuch time as they fubmit to the call.

art.

Digitized by

Google

FRANCE.

133

In the prifon at Bergues I found forty-feven Englijh prifoners. The'table of viftualling was hung up here as at Dunkirk, but the provifions were not fo good. There were twelve on their parole in this town, nine at	and two at

Ardres, who told me they had procured bondfmen for their fecurity.

The

Bergues.

English

Prisoners.

art. iv. If there happen any damage to the place where the prifoners are kept, whether

it be with intent to make an efcape, or otherwife purpofely and wilfully committed, the expenfe

for repairing fuch damage fhall be paid out of the food of thofe that are found guilty of the

infringement, and if there be no means of difeovering the guilty perfons, all the prifoners fhall

contribute an equal fhare out of their food to the charges of fuch repair.

»

art. v. Whoever after efcape from his prifon is retaken, (hall be Ihut in a dungeon, and fhall be Hinted to half his pittance of food, till he has by this confinement fatisfied for the expenfes made for feizing and bringing him back to gaol, and fhall lofe his turn of exchange befides. A fea-officer thus contravening, fhall from that moment be looked upon and treated • as a common failor.

art. vi. It is forbidden to fight, quarrel or make any riot in the prifons or places where the prifoners are allowed to take the air, under pain of incurring fuch punifhment as the offence may require.

art. vn. The prifons fhall be kept clean and neat by the failors, every man in his turn as fhall be regulated, and whatever failor fhall refufe this fervice in his turn, his food fhall be withheld from him till he fubmit to it.

art. viii. The prifoners are to inform the commiffary of the clothes or other neceffaries they may want, and can pay for, and the commiffary fhall not only allow them to be provided with fuch things, but fhall alfo take care they be not impofed upon in the price.

art. ix. In every prifon the prifoners may appoint three or five of themfelves, and change them at their pleafure, in order to infpedl their vi&uals and fee if they be good, and if they have their fhare or portion whether in weight or meafure according to the following vi&ualling table ; and if there arife any reafon for complaint, either of dreffmg, ferving them up, or otherwife, they are with decency to apprife the commiffary of it, who finding fuch drtnplaint well grounded fhall give immediate redrefs and do them juflice.

a r t. x. It fhall be allowed to tradefmen or fellers of ware (except fuch as deal in things that are not fit to be fold to prifoners) to wait at the great gate of the prifons from ten o’clock in the morning till three in the afternoon, in order to fell their ware to fuch prifoners as have wherewithal to pay for them on the fpot.

art. xi. Whatever prifoner fhall dare by this means to take or bring in ftrong liquors or other things that are not fit for prifoners, or fhall receive or deliver any letter, fhall be punifhed for the abufe he has made of this facility.

A TABLE

Digitized by k^ooQle

*34

APPENDIX.

Calais.

English

Prisoners.

The common prifon at Calais, being fmaller than that at Dunkirk, was much crowded ; for it contained one hundred and twenty-feven Englijh prifoners. Seventeen failors lay in one room * on ftraw, without coverlets; a few had not even ftraw : on my complaining of this to the	he	faid,	he	would

fend to	St. Omer's for coverlets.	After informing him farther, that I had found

captains,	pajfengers and mates confined in France, but that I fuppofed perfons of

this defcription in England were on their parole of honour •, he replied, and defired I would note it down, "that “ a parole could not be granted without “ fecurity j a hundred guineas for captains, feventy-five for mates, fixty for “ failors, and twenty-five for boys.” Paftengers, I afterwards learned, were on the fame footing with captains. On the fecond day of my being there, the rules (the fame with thofe at Dunkirk) were hung up, both within and without this prifon.

Many of the prifoners in this, and other prifons had no change of linen, and fome, were almoft entirely deftitute of clothes ; being the crews of vefiels fhipwrecked in the great ftorm of Dec. 31, 1778.

A TABLE OF VICTUALLING.

Days of the Week.	Middling Beer or Cider.	Bread.	Beef.	Butter.	Cheefe.	Peafe or Beans.
	A Pot containing a quart and half	Pounds  Avoirdupois	Pounds  Avoirdupois	Ounces.	Ounces.	Half a Pound Avoirdupois
Monday	Paris meafure. I	Weight.  ii	Weight.  3  +	_	-	Weight.  1  T
T uefday	I		3  4-	-	-	-
Wednefday	I		3  V	-	-	1  T
Thurfday	I	ii	3  T	-	-	-
Friday	I	It	-	4	or 6	1  T
Saturday	I	li	3  T	-	-	-
Sunday	I		3  4-	-	-	1  T -
	7 Pots, or 10 - Qu.	I°i	4t	4	6	2

In fuch places where beer or cider cannot be had, there lhall be delivered to each prifoner three quarters of a quart of wine per day, Paris meafure.

* That room was nineteen feet by twelve. In another fmaller room, in two tiers, were twenty-three hammocks belonging to the failors; for fometimes their hammocks were given them. The court of this prifon was only twenty-five feet by fourteen and a half.

I found

Digitized by ^ooQie

PRISONERS OF WAR.

There were twenty-fix of our people in a fpacious ward in the military hofpital, to whom great attention was paid. Each had a bed and fheets j and their bread and meat were good. But molt of them having a diforder which did not break their fpirits, they would have been better pleafed if their allowance had been equal to that in the prifon.

PRISONERS OF WAR in ENGLAND.

W^hen I vifited my countrymen confined as prifoners of war in France, fome of the Commijfaries and other gentlemen informed me, that they had received great complaints from the French prifoners in England. On my return in January 1779, I waited on the Commijfione of the ftck and wounded and gave them an account of the Englijh prifoners in , and of my intention to vifit the French prifoners. In order to affift me in this bufinefs, they very readily favoured me with letters to their agents at feveral prifons.

Having determined to take another general view of Englijh prifons, to fee what improvements had been made, in confequence of two late a<5ls of parliament,* and of-the charges given by the Judges in their circuits to the grand juries, I chofe to begin my tour in thofe parts where mod of the French ■prifoners were confined; and of them, therefore, I lhall firft give fome account. In my narration I now add my obfervations in 1782, on thefe and other prifoners of war, to whom I paid peculiar attention.

In the Mill-prifon near Plymouth, Feb. 3, 1779, there were three hundred and ninety-two French prifoners. The wards and courts in which they were confined, were not fo fpacious as thofe appropriated to the American prifoners, nor were they fo well accommodated with provifions. # The hofpital, which had fifty patients in it, was too clofe.

In the (hip Cambridge there were three hundred and ninety-fix prifoners; and the next day, two hundred and fifty more were coming in.—The bread was heavy, and the meat bad; and too little attention was then paid to the fick. An hofpital fhip, called the Tiger, was fitting up for an infirmary, f

* 14th Geo. III. Cap. XLIII. and 16th Geo. III. Cap. XLIII. t This was an infirmary till the hofpital which they were building near	was	finilhed.

At

Digitized by

Google

'35

Calais.

English

Prisoners.

Prisoners of War.

Plymouth.

136	APPENDIX.

At my vifit, July 30, 1782, the old prifon was difufed, and there were a hundred and eighty-feven French, two	and feven Dutch in a new

prifon. This is fituated on an eminence; the wards are fpacious, (twenty feet nine inches wide,) and there is a large area. In the infirmary, the cradles (or bedfteads*) are fimilar to thofe in the royal	—All the French prifoners

embarked the next day in a cartel.

None of the windows in the wards of this prifon (or in that at Sbrewjbury) were glazed; they had (Venetian)blinds fimilar to thofe in diftilleries (fee Plate II). This and the airy fituation greatly contributed to the health of the prifoners, who alfo had the advantage of Dr. Farr's frequent vifits.

Received into this Prifon,

From May 27,	1777, to Aug. 1,	1782,	American	1296,	Died 45.
June 26,	1778, - Dec. 31,	1782,	French	7673>		109.
JuIy 7»	1779, — Dec. 25,	1782,	Spanijh	749>		 12.
Dec. 24,	1780, — May 7,	OO  CO	Dutch	634»		 I3.
			Total	10352	M  SO

Of the American prifoners, two hundred and twenty-eight had the fmallpox, a hundred and eighty-two of them were inoculated at their own defirc.—Twenty-five of the prifoners died of their wounds.

Bristol. At Briftol, in a prifon which had been a pottery, there were a hundred and fifty-one French prifoners, Feb. 9, 1779. The wards were more fpacious, and lefs crowded than thofe of the prifon near Plymouth. There were two day-rooms, in which many Ihoe-makers, tailors, &c. were at work : an advantage which the prifoners at Plymouth defired, but could not obtain.—The bread was good.—There being no infirmary, the fick were attended and victualled at a fmall houfe near the prifon, where feven lhillings a week was paid for each patient. There were five in that houfe, in a dirty and offenfive room. March 2, 1782, there was a new prifon, built on a rifing ground about three miles from the city, (two hundred and fifty-fix feet by forty-five,) confifting of two floors, each of which having a partition, the wards were twenty-one feet wide. There was no chimney: the wards were dirty, being never walhed.

Plymouth. Prisoners of War.

* By Dr. Farr's order, the bedfteads in the infirmary were brulhed with the	of tar, to

purify the air.

Adjoining,

Digitized by L^ooQle

PRISONERS OF WAR.

Adjoining, is a fpacious infirmary, which has a fire-place in each ward, and a detached kitchen. The whole was inclofed by a low wall and pales. Here were feven hundred and feventy-four Spanijh, and thirteen Dutch prifoners.

Their guard was fifty of the militia.—The bread was not fo good, and the prifoners had not that attention paid them, as when the prifon was	the city.—

Here was painted on a board, that an open market is allowed from ten to three.

There were one thoufand and fixty-two Fr prifoners in the prifon at Winchest£ Winchejler, March 2,1779. The wards were lofty and fpacious. The area large.

The meat and beer were good : but the bread (being made with leaven and mixed with rye) was not fo good as that at Brijlol.* If two or three of the rooms had been ufed as work-rooms, the health of the prifoners would have been promoted, and they would not have been indolently lying in their hammocks in the day-time j as I obferved they were, both here and at

Several prifoners were confined in the dark hole.—Forty days confinement on half allowance, in order to pay ten {hillings to thofe that apprehend them after efcapes, feems to be too fevere a punifhment. On fuch occafions, the obfervation of the worthy magiftrates at Bern always occurs to my mind, “ that every one muft be defirous of regaining liberty. ”

The hofpital wards were lofty, and upwards of twenty feet wide. Each patient had a cradle, bedding and fheets; and the furgeon paid them great attention, j-

I found the prifon, Feb. 26, 1782, cleaner than at my former vifit, and many improvements in the wards and courts. The well was in order. The number of prifoners was three hundred and twenty-eight , three hundred and forty-nine Dutch, and thirty-feven	Spanifh, befides in the infirmary, nine

French, thirty-nine Dutch, and thirty-feven	Spani/k—On inquiring for the attentive furgeon, I was forrv to hear, he had died of the	,which was

fatal to many in this prifon.

Bristol. Prisoners op War.

* I paiticularly'obferved the bread; for in France it was remarkably good and well baked.

+ Mr. Smith the agent alfo was affiduous in his department. He mentioned to me, in 1779, that he thought it would be an advantage if one of their pricfls (two of whom were at a little diftance on their parole') were permitted to attend the prifoners. This, he faid, would be the means of comforting fome, of aweing others, and of giving information whenever there was any juft reafon for complaints. — At my vifit in 1782, the Roman catholic prifoners had fitted up a little chapel.

T	In

Digitized by k^ooQle

APPENDIX.

138

Forton.	In a prifon not very convenient at Forton near	there were a hundred

Prisoners and feventy-feven French prifoners, March 2, 1779. On that day the meat

O F W a R	•

was very bad, and had been killed, as the butcher’s fervant faid, that morning: but it was returned, and Mr. Newjham the agent procured them good meat inftead of it.—Moft of the fix-pound loaves wanted weight. I faw the bread weighed for a hundred and forty-two prifoners, and obferved a deficiency of three pounds.—The ftraw, by long ufe, was turned to dull in the mattrefles, and many of them here, and at other places, had been emptied to clear them of vermin. The floors of the bed-rooms and hofpitals could not but be dirty and offenfive, the boards having been laid rough. I took notice of this kind of bad policy in all the floors of the new prifon which was then building here, and almoft finilhed.

The regulations were in the French language, and were the fame with thofe publilhed in a former war. They were evidently the original from which thofe printed in page 132 are tranflated. For the fake of greater accuracy, they will be given at the end of the book. I was informed both here and at Winchejlert that they had been hung up, but were torn down. The regulations in the Spanijh language were the fame as thofe in the French.—It would be better, to paint them on a board, which fhould be fattened in fome confpicuous place in every prifon.

On the prifoners complaining that the bread was too light and the 'meat bad, I referred them to the ninth article of the regulations, by which they are diredled to apply to the agent, and (if not redrefied) to the CommiJJioners. One of them pertinently replied, “ How is that poflible, when every letter is examined by the agent ?”*

At my vifit November 6, 1782, I found there was no feparation of the Americans from other prifoners of war, and they had the fame allowance of bread, viz.one pound and a half each. There were a hundred and fifty-four French, thirty-four	Dutch,and a hundred and thirty-three Americans-, of thefe

twelve French, twenty-five Dutch, and nine Americans were in the hofpital.f The wards were not clean. No regulations hung up. I weighed feveral of the fix-pound loaves, and they all wanted fome ounces of weight.

• I could have wilhed, that the gentlemen concerned for the American prifoners, had extended their regards alfo to the French, and by their attention and vifits had obliged the contractors to be more careful in difeharging their duty.

+ I could not but wilh, that in the rooms appropriated to the fick, there had been ’women nurfes, as in the hofpitals at Hajlar and Plymouth.

The

Digitized by

Google

PRISONERS OF WAR.

>39

The American prifoners then had an allowance from the , paid by order of Dr. Franklin. I found a gentleman of Portjmoutb diftributing this kind allowance. From Lady-day to Michaelmas, officers received one (hilling per week, and feamen fix pence: and from Michaelmas to Lady-day, officers two (hillings and feamen one (hilling per week. American officers were not on parole as other officers.

Received into this Prifon,

June 13, 1777, to Nov.	6,	OO  N>  *	American	1200,	Died 69.
June 30, 1778, -- Nov.	6,	1782,	French	11720,		 166.
June 11, 1779, — July	3>	1782,	Spanijh	3028,		 167.
Dec. 30, 1780, — Sept. 28,		N  OO	Dutch	934»		 17.
			Total	16882	^ 1 M 1  sO

Forton. Prisoner* of War.

There was a new temporary prifon at Deal. It had an airy and fpacious Deal. room below, and another above, and a convenient kitchen.—The regulations were hung up, the loaves were full weight, the provifions of all forts were good, and the mattrefies had plenty of draw. I made my firft vifit (as I did always) without the agents or contractors, and I had the pleafure of hearing the prifoners exprefs their fatisfaClion.

The prifon adjoins to the naval hofpital, the wards of which were clean and not in the lead offenfive. In this the fick and wounded prifoners had the convenience of a ward, fimilar to that which the Engli/h prifoners had at Dunkirk and Calais; and were attended by a (kilful and humane furgeon.

There were feventy-three in the prifon, and fifteen in this ward, April 17,

1779: and	twenty-eight French and three Dutch December			5, 1782, and only
one fick.		Received into this Prifon,		
From Nov. 3, 1778,		to Dec. 8, 1782, French	2420,	Died 20.
	Dec. 23, 1780,	Dutch	698,		 15.
	July 15, 1779,	Spanijh	32>		 0.
	Aug. 24, 1781,	American	*3>		 1.
		Total	3*63	36-

Died of Fevers 24. — Of Wounds n. — Of the Scurvy 1.

T 2	In

Digitized by ^ooQie

140

Carlisle. Prisoners of War.

PEMBROKE.

APPENDIX.

In the county gaol at Carlifle,in one large room in the debtors ward, there were twelve French prifoners. May io, 1779. They were not fupplied with hammocks, as at	Plymouth,	fVincheJler, &c. but lay on draw without cover-

lets.—Their allowance, fix pence a day.

On the 5th and 6th of June 1779, I vilited the prifons at Pembroke. There were fifty-fix French prifoners in an old houfe adjoining to that in which the Americans were confined. Mod of them had no fhoes or dockings, and fome were alfo without fhirts.—They had no vidtualling table, nor did they know what was their allowance. There were two or three who had their allowance in money, which Ihould have been three (hillings and fix pence a week each for their aliment, but fix pence was deducted. They lay, in general, on the boards without draw ; for there were but four hammocks in two rooms, each of which contained eighteen prifoners. Here was a court-yard, but no water or fewer.

In the two rooms of the town gaol there were twenty French prifoners. They had fome draw, but it had not been changed for many weeks. Having no fupply of water in the gaol, and not being permitted, as they were at the other prifon, to fetch water for themfelves, they were often neglected. On funday at noon,, no water had been brought to them from friday evening.— They walked in a field, with a guard, about an hour every day.-—Their bread was tolerable, but their beer very fmall, and their allowance of beef fo fcanty, that they preferred an allowance of cheefe and butter.

At a houfe appropriated for an hofpital, there were nine French prifoners, befides five of the crew of the Culloden man of war, and three Americans. -Thefe lay in three or four rooms on draw with coverlets, but without fheets, mattrelfes or beddead-s.

At my vifit October 21, 1782, there was a new prifon. Two rooms; one on the ground-floor, the other over it (thirty-fix feet by fixteen,) very dirty and offenfive, though there were only fix French prifoners. They had been confined to their rooms on fliort allowance from the fourteenth of September for making an efcape. The bedding was on the floor ; the draw in fome of the mattrefles had not been changed for eighteen weeks. The prifoners faid they were half darved : the bread was very brown, and the weight of the daily allowance only fixteen ounces. No regulations were hung up.—No agent, or relation of any agent, Ihould be concerned in any contratt relative to prifoners of war.

Such

Digitized by

Google

PRISONERS OF WAR.

141

Such obfervations as thefe have convinced me, that humanity and good policy require that	injpeftors of the prifoners of war ffiould be appointed, who ffiould.

be defired to report quarterly their ftate as to health, provifions, &cc. No doubt fome independent gentlemen in the neighbourhood would have accepted fuch an humane office without falary.

At Chefier Cajlle, Aug. 27, 1779, there were twenty-three French prifoners of war. They were healthy and well, and made no complaint.

At	Liverpool, Nov. 30, 17.79,	were five hundred and nine prifoners of war,

all French, except fifty-fix Spaniards, who were kept feparate on account of the animofities between the two nations. Thefe were all confined in four or five rooms crowded with hammocks three tier high; but they had a fpacious airing ground, and the prifon was fituated on a fine eminence. There were thirty-fix, lick in fome fmall dirty rooms of a houfe at a diftance from the prifon. Thefe had no fheets ; but great attention feemed to be paid them by the furgeon, and they made no complaints. At the prifon, the bedding wanted regulation. No table of rules or victualling was hung up, (1779) or ever had been. The prifoners rejoiced at the difcharge of the late agent; and from the character of the new agent, had every reafon to expeft all due attention and humanity. Their meat was fine and good ; the beer good ; the bread heavy.— Sep. 5, i782,j.here were twenty	French,fcven Spani/h, and feven Dutch prifoners.

Received into this Prifon,

From September 3,	1778,	to September	5,	1782,	French	1283, Died 14.	%

September 5,	1779,	--February	23,	1781,	Spanijh	69, -- 3.

February 2,	1781,	— October	8,	1782,	Dutch	84,	  I.

Total	1436.	18.*

• The Scheme of Diet for prifoners of war in the hofpital at Liverpool.

Low Diet. Water-gruel, panado, rice-gruel, milk-pottage, or broth, eight ounces of bread, (and if butter is ordered, two ounces). For drink, toaft and water, ptifan, or white decottion.

Half Diet. For breakfaft, milk-pottage; for dinner,, half a pound of mutton, fome light bread-pudding, or in lieu of it/ fome greens, a pint of broth, a pound of bread, and three pints of fmall beer.

Full Diet. Breakfaft as above. For dinner, one pound of meat, one pint of broth, or.e pound of bread, and two quarts of fmall beer. Supper, in the latl two mentioned diets, to be of the broth left at dinner, or if drought ncceflary to be of milk-pottage.

Rice milk, orange whey, orange and lemon water, tamarind whev, vinegar whey, balm and fage tea to be difcretionally ufed by the furgeon.

Here,

Prisone rs of War.

Chester.

Liverpool.

Digitized by v^ooQie

j^-

APPENDIX.

Liver pool Prisoners of V/ar.

Hull.

Lincoln.

Shrewsbury.

Here, as well as at all the other places throughout the kingdom where French prifoners were confined, I found that there was an allowance from the French court of one penny per day to all failors and boys; two pence to boatfwains, carpenters, &c. and three pence to thofe of fuperior rank ; which was regularly paid them every month. There was befides a fupply from the fame court of clothes, linen, and fhoes to thofe who were deftitute of thefe articles : a noble and exemplary provifion, much to the honour of thofe who conducted public affairs in France! *

The prifon in the fortrefs at Hull confifts of feveral rooms, with two tier of fhelves for the ftraw, or beds. There were only fifty-one Dutch prifoners, Jan. 30, 1782, many having been lately fent to	Thefe	prifoners

were fenfible of the attention paid them by Mr.	the	furgeon	and agent.

In the Cajlleat Lincoln, Feb. 1, 1782, I found eight Dutch prifoners, who had been taken ill on their march from Hull to	One of them, an

old man, died the next day j the reft recovered.	Their allowance was fix

pence a day, and they were kindly fupplied from a colleflion made by Dr.	Stinlon, chancellor of Lincoln.

At	Shreivjbury,	in a large and elegant building on the bank of the ,

called the orphan-houfe, (as being erefted in 1765 for the reception of children from the foundling-hofpital at London,) there were in June 1782, three hundred and thirty-eight Dutch prifoners j twenty-feven of them were in the hofpital. The wards were fpacious, a hundred and twenty feet by twenty. At the back of the prifon there is a fine area of four acres well fupplied with water, and at the hofpital an area of one acre. The regulations in Dutch and French were hung up. The beds in the hofpital were not crowded ; all had fheets j and the furgeon paid great attention to the patients.

Many of the prifoners were without fhoes and ftockings, and fome had no fliirts ; for they had not received any bounty from the , as the French and Spanijh prifoners had from their courts. But by a generous fubfeription in the

ft

• I have fince heard that a bounty was paid by the court of England to their prifoners in France, at the following rates, viz. captains, mates, failing mailers, furgeons, and ftewards, three pence per day each ; common failors, boys, and pafiengers of inferior rank, three halfpence per day each ; which payment was made every twenty-eight days.

town

Digitized by

Google

PRISONERS OF WAR.

*4 3

town (£61 : 15 : o) they were foon after fupplied with necefiary clothing. The Dutch government afterwards ordered an allowance.

At	Yarmouth, July 8, 1782, there were ten French and ninety-two Dutch

prifoners. Their rooms and court, and the three rooms of the infirmary were too clofe. The regulations in French and Dutch were hung up. The pro-vifions were good. The prifoners looked healthy and well: moft of them had been brought in but a few days.

At	Falmouth,Feb. 6, 1783, there were fixty-five French, twenty-four

and nineteen Dutch prifoners ; of whom, fixteen	,	fix	Spanijh	and	five

Dutch were in the hofpital. The prifon was fituated on a fine eminence about two miles from the town,* and had plenty of water. The provifions were good, and the prifoners made no complaint.—The hofpital was above a mile from the prifon. The patients lay fingle, in good cradles, hair-beds, lheets and coverlets. The wards were tiled, and were the more airy and falutary for not being cieled.

The Number of Prifoners,

From Sept.	II,	1778,	to	Feb. 10,	1783.	French	2669,	Died	37.

July	12,	1779,	-	-.	Spanijh	185,	-—	5.

Jan.	3,	1781,	-	-	Dutch	302,	--- 6.

Total 3156	48.

Signed R. W. Fox, Agent.

PRISONERS OF WAR in SCOTLAND.

I found in the	Cajlleat Edinburgh,July 6, 1779, fixty-four	prifoners,

in two rooms formerly ufed as barracks for the foldiers. In one of the rooms they lay on ftraw, two and two, in boxes againlt the wall, with two coverlets to each box : in the other room they lay on mattrefifes in hammocks.—The regulations as to diet, &c. were hung up. Their bread was excellent, and all other provifions good ; nor was there any thing of which they made complaint. They received every month, the allowance from the French court.

# All prifons fhould be very near towns, for the convenience of provifions, and the attendance of furgeons and agents.

There

Shrewsbury. Prisoners of War.

Yarmouth.

Falmouth.

Edinburgh.

Digitized by oogie

144

APPENDIX.

Edinburch. There were fourteen in the hofpital, which was a houfe at fome diftance in the

Prisoners city, where they had bedding and Iheets, and great attention was paid them by of War. .	.	r	",

the humane furgeon and agent.

In the caftlc, March 27, 1782, there were fifteen American and fourteen French pril'oners ; and ten who were faid to be , who were clofely confined, being out only one hour in a day. In fuch clofe confinement prifoners fliould always have an iron-lattice door.—The bread was good; the water in the well was brackifh, the prifoners fhould have been permitted with a guard to fetch water every day from the city.—Auguft 17, 1782, there were only five French prifoners.

The Number of Prifoners received at	,from Nov. 23, 1778, to Aug. 17, 1782.

French	00	D ied 31.
Spanijh	108,		 0.
Dutch	10,		 0.
Americans	3°>		 3.
Total	990	34-

In June 1781 there were two hundred and feventecn French prifoners landed from the Jamaica fleet, who had been fourteen weeks on their paflage. All were fickly j moft of them had an inveterate feurvy: of thefe twenty-four died.

PRISONERS OF WAR in IRELAND.

Belfast. On the 13th of July 1779, there were feventy-feven French prifoners at Belfafi, who had been brought there the beginning of May.—There was no table of regulations, and they feemed to be much negledled. Sixteen of them were in the hofpital, including three attendants. Many others were fick, but in the hofpital there was neither room nor accommodations for them.

Dublin. At Dublin, July 22, 1779, there were twenty-two prifoners of war, in a good room fitted up for a temporary prifon. Their bread and other provifions were very good j and they were treated with all the humanity and kindnefs that could be expefted.

In

Digitized by

Google

PRISONERS OF WAR.

*45

In the Old Newgate, May 28, 1782, there were thirty-two prifoners of war of fevcral nations, being part of the crew of a Dunkirk privateer. They were confined in one large room. Allowance fix pence a day to each. Thefe prifoners were foon after removed to Kilkenny.

At Kilkenny, June 9, 1782, there were a hundred and fifty-feven French, three Spanijh and five Dutch prifoners of war, befides eleven in the infirmary and feventeen French on their parole. They were all privateers men: they looked healthy and had no caufe of complaint. This was acknowledged by tliofe on paroley Mr. Watters the agent being attentive to them.—September 12, 1782, there were only three French and four Dutch prifoners.*

The Number of Prifoners at Kilkenny^ from Aug. 29, 1779, to Sept. 12, 1782.

French 1418,	Died 34.

Spanijh	162,	--- 9.

Dutch	9,	--- O.

Total 1589	43.

Dublin. Prisoners of War.

Kilkenny.

* A copy of the lift of the fums which the French king grants to his fubje&s detained in England, Sec. as a fupplement to what they receive from the court of London.

AT LIBERTY.

£. S. D.

King's /hips. To the furgeon majors and chaplains -	per Day 003

........ To the volunteers of the firft clafs	-	003

........ To the mafters, pilots and carpenters -	003

........ To gunners, captains of arms, furgeons mates, apothecaries,

fecond mafters of all conditions, fecretary of frigates, and fecond pilots	-	-	-	-	-	003

To the volunteers of good family -	-	-	-	002

CONFINED.

King's Jbips. To the fecond mafters, fergeant officers, gunners mates, and

gun-fmiths	-	-	-	-	-	-	o o

To the failors, foldiers, and fhip boys	-	-	-	001

MERCHANT MEN.

Merchant Jhips. Captains, at liberty, or confined	-	-	•	003

------------ Second	captains and other officers, at liberty, or confined	-	002

------- Sailors, foldiers, volunteers and fhip boys	-	-	001

They are alfo fupplied when deftitute of clothing, each of them to the amount of one pound twofhillings and five pence halfpenny lrijhy for jacket, waiftcoat, ftiirt, fhoes, (lockings and hat.

U	AMERICAN

Digitized by

Google

146

APPENDIX.

Plymouth.

American

Prisoners.

Forton.

Pembroke.

AMERICAN PRISONERS.

In	Mill-frijon near Plymouth, there were two hundred	and ninety-eight

American prifoners on the 3d of February 1779. Their wards and court were fpacious and convenient, and their bread, beer, and meat good. On July 30, 1782, there were only feven American prifoners.

The Americans were equally well accommodated at Forton near where I found two hundred and fifty-one prifoners, March 2, 1779.

The table of regulations was almoft the fame with that for the French prifoners. The principal difference was, that in the victualling table, the bread allowance was then only one pound a day.

At Pembroke, June 5, 1779, there were confined in an old houfe thirty-feven American prifoners. Some of them were without fhoes and dockings.— There was no victualling table, or table of regulations; nor did they know what was the allowance ordered by government. They lay on draw on the floor, and their draw had not been changed for fix or feven weeks.—By liberal fubfcriptions, ample provifion had been made for the other American prifoners: I was forry to find that thefe had been entirely overlooked.

In a houfe appropriated for an hofpital, in which were fome EngliJfj failors and French prifoners, I found alfo three American prifoners, very poorly accommodated.—At my vifits in 1782, the Americans were with the other prifoners of war, and had an allowance from the j as I mentioned at Forton, page 138.

My principal objeCt in procuring lids of the number of prifoners of war who had been received and had died in the feveral prifons, was to refute a prevailing opinion of our feverity and inattention to fuch prifoners. Thefe lids, which I received from the agents, were afterwards checked by the books of the CommiJJioners of fick and wounded Jeamen, &c. in London, who readily granted me that favour.

Before I leave this fubjeCt, it will be but judice to mention the care and affiduity of the Commiffiotters, who themfelves vifited many of the prifons

in

Digitized by v^ooQie

SCOTLAND.

i47

in	England,and difmified fuch agents as had abufed their truft; and who are

ready to receive any information which may be for the benefit of thofe committed to their care.

SCOTLAND.

It may not be improper, before I enter on a particular account of Englijh prifons, to mention what further occurred to me worthy of obfervation, in my journeys into Scotland and Ireland in 1779, 1782, and 1783.

The prifons which I faw in EdinburghGla/gow, Haddington, Ayr, Kelfo, Nairne, Bamff, Invernejs, &c. were generally old buildings, dirty and offenfive, and without courts.

If a prifoner for debt declares upon oath that he has not wherewithal to maintain himfelf, the creditor muft aliment him within ten days after notice is given for that purpofe, with at leaf!; three pence a day,* but generally the magiltrates order fix pence.—By the procefs of CeJJio bonorum,-\ a debtor after being a month in prifon, may obtain his liberty, and be fecured againft execution for any previous debts, by making a furrender of all his effects to be divided among his creditors : though if he afterwards comes into better circumftances, his effe&s may be attached for the payment of thofe debts. This compaffionate law prevents a creditor putting his debtor in prifon, unlefs he has good reafon to believe he is a6ting fraudulently.

Perjury is not frequent in Scotland. The oath, and the form of ad-miniftering it, are very folemn. The witnefs, holding up his right'hand, repeats the following words after the judge	By God himfelf, and as you

“ fhall anfwer to God at the great day of judgment, you fhall declare the “ truth, and nothing but the truth, in fo far as you know, or fhall be afked “ at you.”—The depofitions are read over by the clerk, and figned by the witnefles and the judge.£ — It is enabled by the aoth of Geo. II. that “ the circuit-courts fhall be regularly held twice in every year, within that

* By a& of king William's firft parliament, 1696, fixth feflion. Chap. XXXII.

f See The Principles of the Laiv of Scotland, 5th edit. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1777. p. 462.

I Louthian's Form of Procefs, before the Court of Jufluiary in Scotland. Edin. 175 2. p. 109.

U 2	<c	part

American

Prisoners.

Scotland.

Digitized by v^ooQle

148

APPENDIX.

Scotland.

<f part of	Great Britain called Scotland,and the Judges thereof fhall	continue

“ by the fpace of fix days at the leaft, at each town or place where the circuit-ff courts fhall be held, for the difpatch of bufinefs.”*

Thurf. are in Scotland but few prifoners ■,this is partly owing to the fhame and difgrace annexed to imprifonment; partly to the folemn manner in which oaths are adminiftered, and trials and executions conduced j and partly to the general fobriety of manners produced by the care which parents and minijlers take to inftrufl the rifing generation, f

I am indebted to Andrew Crojbie, Efq. for an account, from the clerk of the jufticiary, of the executions from January 1768 to May 1782, which fhall be inferted in a table at the end of the book; from which it will appear, that in thirteen years and a half, there have been fifty-four executed, and twenty-two pardoned.

In	Scotland,executions	formerly were not delayed after conviction or

fentence j fuch delays being often equally injurious to the criminal and to fociety. Here, the punifhment of the offender was made to appear the immediate confcquence of his crime. J

All

* This good aft is fimilar to one enafted for the counties of Wales in 34th and 35th of Henry VIII. Chap. XXVI. “ That every of the faid fefiions (hall be kept and continued by the ** fpace of fix days in every of the faid (hires, at either of the faid times, as is and hath been %€ ufed within the faid three (hires of North Wales. ”

f It is provided by ftatute in the fixth feffion of king William's firft parliament, 1696, Chap. XfcVI. “ That there be a fchcol fettled and eltablifhed, and a fchoolmafler appointed in every parifh” in Scotland, and the prefbytery has the fuperintendence of the execution of this aft, which has been carefully attended to. Many fchook are alfo fettled by donations and legacies, and by the fociety for propagating chriftian knowledge ; fo that no parijh is without a fchool, and in fome there are four or five. In the fouthern parts of Scotland, it is very rare that you meet with any perfon that cannot both read and write. It is fcandalous for any perfon not to be poflefled of a Bible, which is always read in the parochial fchools.

J By the aft made in king William's firft fefiion, 1695, Chap. IV. ail capital crimes are reftrifted to the trial and fentence within three Suns; and the i( Execution, which is hereby left to the diferetion of the Judge, not exceeding nine days after fentence.99—The Statute of the nth of Geo. I. Chap. XXVI. enafts, that no fentence of death, or corporal punifhment, can, on the fouth fide of the Forth, be put in execution in lefs than thirty, and on the north, than forty days. This (latute is altered in fo far as refpefts punifhments that amount neither to death nor demembration ; and the law allows all fuch letter corporal punifhments to be inflifted after eight days on the fouth fide of the river Forth, and twelve days on the north fide of the river Forth. This alteration is made by the ttatute of the 3 d of Geo. IT.

Chap.

Digitized by

Google

SCOTLAND.

149

All criminals are tried out of irons; and when acquitted, immediately difcharged in open court, and no gaoler has a fee from any criminal.—Women are not put in irons in Scotland.

In the	Tolbootb at	Edinburgh,*July 6, 1779, there	were thirteen debtors

and nine felons j and in the Canongate	,	there	were	five debtors and

one

Chap. XXXII. which likewife empowers the court of judiciary to flay execution of fuch fentences pronounced in inferiour courts for thirty days, upon caufe (hewn, that fuch application may be made for redrefs as may be competent by the laws of Scotland, The datute of the nth of Geo. I. is refcrved entire by the datute of the 25th of Geo. II. Chap. XXXVII. which ena&s, that murderers in England lhall be executed within three days.

* I here give the table of fees from the Tolbootb in this city, which is the only one I faw

in the prifons in Scotland, except a fimilar one in the Canongate Tolbootb, and one at Glafgo-iu.

ACT of COUNCIL regulating the fees payable to the jailor and clerk of the Tolbootb of Edinburgh, — Edinburgh, feventeenth July, feventeen hundred and twenty-eight. The which day the Lord Provod, bailies, council, deacons of crafts, ordinary and extraordinary, being convened in council, and taking into confideration the prefent Hate of their Tolbootb, and particularly the fees that have been in ufe to be exa&ed by the jailor and clerk of the fa id prifon, both from creditors at incarceration of prifoners, and from *he debitor or perfon himfclf imprifoned ; and judging it highly reafonable, that thefe fees thould for the future be publicly ascertained by authority of the council for the benefit of all concerned ; therefore the council do tax and fettle the fame as follows, *1>iz.

Fees payable to the Jailor.

The incarcerator of any debitor for any fum of money lhall pay at incarceration one halfpenny derling for each pound Scots, and another halfpenny llcrling of each pound Scots to be paid by the debitor at his liberation ; and this in place of one penny derling of each pound Scots in ufe to be paid by creditors at incarceration, and of the like fum of one penny llerling of each pound Scots, ufually paid by the debitor at liberation as relief money.

Item, Each perfon imprifoned for a civil debt or otherwife not being a burgefs, lhall pay to the jailor of houfe dues each night attour what is above — Item, Each burgefs imprifoned for a civil deb: or otherwife, fhall pay alio to the jailor of houfe dues each night attour what is above	—

Item, The incarcerator of any perfon or perfens by the lord's letters of Iaburrows fhall pay at incarceration	—	—	—

Item, The incarcerator of any perfon or perfons on Iaburrows by a magifirate, fheriif, or jullice of peace. Hi all pay at incarceration	—

Item, The incarcerator of any perfon for exhibition of papers, or for implementing of writs (captions for reprodudlien of proceffes befoie the inferior courts excepted) fhall pay at incarceration	—	—

£■	Scots,  S.	D.
O	6	8
O	3	4
3	0	0
1	10	0

1	10	o

The

Digitized by

Google

Scotland.

Edinburgh

Tolbooth.

15°

appendix.

Edinburgh

Tolbooth.

one felon : and in the houfe of correction there were fifty-three women, crowded into three dirty and offenfive rooms, where they work and deep.—March 28, 1782, there were in the "Tolbooth, four debtors and twenty-three criminals; in the	Canongate, two debtors; and in the houfe of	,	thirty-feven

women.

I will

The Council ordains and declares when any gentleman or other perfon fhall be incarcerate in the Tolbooth, and fhall defire to have a room in the prifon by him or herfelf, fuch perfons fhall be liable for the conveniency of fuch room to pay to the jailor ten (hillings flerling weekly in place of prifon fees, or fuch as they and the jailor fhall agree, but not to exceed ten (hillings.

That all prifoners fhall be liable to pay the under-keepers, and the woman who cleans the houfe, as prifoners were in ufe to do before the aft of council the 17th day of July 1728 ; but if any difpute fhall arife thereanent, the magiilrates for the time being fhall have the full power of determining the fame.

Fees payable to the Clerk of the Tolbooth.

Imprimis, Each perfon incarcerate upon any Laburrows fhall at his liberation pay Item, Each perfon incarcerate by warrant from thp magiilrates, fhall at his liberation pay	—	—	—	—

Item, Each perfon incarcerate by warrant from fheriff or juflice of the peace, fhall at liberation pay	—	—	—	—•

Item, All government prifoners fhall pay each at liberation	—	—

Item, For each petition by a prifoner for the benefit of the a£l of grace, and for the clerk’s declaration thereto fubjoined fhall be paid	—	—

Item, For the borrowing or delivering up of any diligence by which prifoners are incarcerate (all magiilrates warrants at or within ten mercks excepted) fhall be paid	—	—	—	—

Item, All perfons incarcerated or arrefled for a fum or fums at or below £ 120 Scots, fhall pay to the clerk at liberation four pennies for each pound Scots; and for fums above £ 120 Scots, fhall pay at liberation to the clerk two pounds Scots and no more.

Item, All perfons incarcerate for exhibition of papers, or for implementing of writs (captions for reproduction of procefles before the inferior courts excepted) fhall pay to the clerk at liberation	*—	—	—

Item, All creditors or incarcerators of prifoners for civil debt or otherwife fhall be free of all fees to the clerk at incarceration.

Scots.

£. S. D. 0120

060

0120

200

060

040

1	10	•

And the council flatues and declares, that if any fees fhall be demanded or exaCled in time coming, by the jailor or clerk of their Tolboothy other than thefe above fet down, they fhall incur the deprivation of their refpedlive offices ; and ordain their prefents to be printed and publifhed, that none may pretend ignorance.

And

Digitized by

Google

SCOTLAND.

I will only juft mention the clofe confinement of poor* criminals in the Tolbooth, the horrid cage in the room known by that name, and the feverity praftifed there of chaining the condemned to an iron bar; becaufe I found that the late Provoft Mr. Stuartj- was ufing his belt endeavours to get a new gaol built, which fhould be fubjett to better regulations and ftand in a more airy fituation.

I could not but admire the Royal Infirmary at Edinburgh. Few hofpitals in England exceed it in airinefs and cleanlinefs. Great attention is paid to the patients, and their complaints are very accurately minuted. The fuccefs of this inftitution is evident, from the few that die in comparifon with the number admitted. The proportion of deaths to the number admitted, from 1770 to 1775 inclufive, was as one to twenty-five nearly. In 1776 and 1777, the proportion was nearly as one to twenty-nine. The total number of patients admitted in 1780 was two thoufand two hundred and twenty-eight, of whom feventy-fix died: the number in 1781 was two thoufand two hundred and fix, of whom feventy-four died.—Dr. John Hope, the firft phyfician in this hofpital, (who lives very near it and gives unremitting attendance) informed me, that two or three years ago, a putrid fever prevailed in it; but that white-wafhing the walls had eradicated the infection, and that this falutary practice had been continued ever fince. J

Anb the council hereby ordains James Clcland principal jailor and his fuccelTors in office, to affix a copy hereof in the Tolbooth-hall, and in his own office, under the penalty of £5 Scots, tot its quoties.

Extracted (figned) GEORGE HOME.

Edinburgh, the Sixth Day of July, Seventeen Hundred and Seventy-nine Years. Thefc do certify by me William Gilles clerk to the Tolhoctb of Edinburgh, that the above is a true and exadt copy of the aft of council of the city of Edinburgh, by which the keeper of the faid Tolbooth and me as clerk thereof are governed.

William Gilles.

* I fay poor, becaufe fuch as have money have too much liberty. For in the fame prifon,

I lately faw fome, who were confined for a riot, drinking whijkey in the tap-room, in company with many profligate townfmen, who were readily admitted, as they promoted the fale of the gaoler’s liquors.

f I muft not omit here making my acknowledgments to the magiflrates of Edinburgh, for the honour they did me, by prefenting me with the freedom of this city.

1 On my vifit at Hajlar hofpital in November 1782, I had the pleafure to hear that there was an order to white-wafh the wards twice a year.

The

Digitized by

Google

•j ■

Edinburgh

Tolbooth.

Infirmary.

APPENDIX.

152

Edinburgh

Orphan-

hospital.

Glasgow

Tolbooth.

The	Orpl.nin-hcfpitalalfo dcferves particular commendation, in which in

1782, there were about feventy boys and fix tv girls, who appeared decen tly clothed, cheerful, clean and healthy. The girls are taught (befides reading and writing) fpinning, knitting, fevving and houfho’d work; and the boys carding, fpinning, knitting, mending their clothes,	All	arc	educated	in

the principles of virtue and religion, and formed to fuch habits as may tend to make them good fervants and apprentices. Every part of the hotife was clean.—The maintenance, &c. for each child, is about jive pounds.—Mr. Tody the treafurer, merits peculiar refpedt for the attention and zeal with which he endeavours to promote the ufefulnefs and credit of this hofpital.

In the	Tolbooth at Glafgow,July 9, 1779, there	were thirteen debtors and

feven criminals ; and in the houje of correction, feventeen women were fpinning, decently clothed: in September 1782, there were eighteen debtors and five criminals in the Tolbooth,* and twenty-fix prifoners in the houje of correRion.

The

# COPY of the Fees and Regulations to be exafled and obferved in the Tolbooth at Glafgow ; as appointed by A£t of the Magidratcs and Town Council of Glafgow, dated the 3ill of Augud, 1769.

1.	Every burgefs incarcerated, fhall, during his confinement, pay for jaylor fee,

for each night, at the rate of	-

And every peifon not a burgefs, fhall pay for jaylor fee, during his or her confinement, each night, at the rate of

2.	Every perfon imprifoned by virtue of an aft of warning, fhall pay to the

jaylor, exclulivc of the dues in ill article,	-

And every perfon incarcerated by virtue of a written warrant, from a ’ magiflrate, a jurticc of peace, or a fherifF, fhall pay

3.	Every perfon incarcerated by virtue of a caption, or a judiciary, or admiral

warrant, fhall, cxclufive of the dues in id article, if a burgefs, pay If an unfreeman,	-

4.	The jaylor, on figning an attedation of a commitment, fhall receive

And on the delivery up of diligence to perfons negleding to require the fame, within eight days after the prifener’s liberation, he (hall receive

Sterling		.
£■	s.	D.
O	0	z
O	0	4
O	I	
O	1	8
O	2	9r
O	5	6;-
O	1	0
O	• 1	0

Rules to be obferved by the Jaylor and his fervants.

1.	The jaylor fhall not by himfelf or any of his fervants, diredly or indirectly, demand or receive from any prifoner, or from any perfon in his or in her name, at entry, or during his or her confinement, any fums of money under the name of entry money, garniihing, or any other denomination, feparate from and over and above the fees llipulated as above. Further, the jaylor fhall not fuder any of the prifoners, to make demands of money or drink from perfons newly incarcerated, on any pretence whatfoever.

2.	The

Digitized by

Google

SCOTLAND.

l53

The Number of Prifoners* September 1782.

In Edinburgh Tolbooth	Debtors.  - *3>	Criminals.  22*
Perth	- 3* " 4»	2.  3-
Aberdeen	- 8,	6.
Invernefs *	3>	5-
Dumfries	3»	0.

It would anfwer no end to give a defcription of all the Scotch priibns. I will, therefore, only add to this account the following particulars.

At Dumfries in the court-houfe is a room called the open gaol, (fixteen feet three inches by eleven feet three) with clofets and a fire-place, where a debtor that finds bail has the key, and may converfe at the door.—The gaol in this town was burnt by a prifoner fome years ago. To prevent this for the future, the rooms in it have been vaulted.

The

2.	The jaylor (hall, from ift of April to ill of Ottober, open each day the prifon at eight, and (hut it half an hour after nine in the morning; open it at eleven before noon, and (hut it half an hour after two o’clock afternoon; open it at four o’clock afternoon, and (hut it at ten o’clock at night. And from the ift of October to the ift of April, he (hall open the prifon each day at nine in the morning, and (hut it half an hour after two o’clock afternoon ; open it at four o’clock afternoon, and (hut it at ten o’clock at night 5 only on Sundays, the prifon (hall be (hut during publick worlhip, any thing in this rule to the contrary. And the jaylor is always to keep the whole keys of the prifon in his own cuftody while it is (hut up, and not entruft them with any of his fervants.

3.	The jaylor, every morning and evening, at the opening of, and before (hutting up the prifon, (hall perfonally vifit every room and place therein, carefully infpeft the windows, chimnies, and walls thereof, in order to prevent and difcover all attempts to cut the iron (lanchers, or to break through the ft one walls, joifts, and floors of the prifon, and he (hall take particular care, that no inftruments be conveyed to, or be in the pofleflion of any of the prifoners, whereby they may effe&uate their efcape, or hurt one another; and in cafe the jaylor (hall, through indifpofition, be prevented from the execution of his duty, he (hall take care to employ fome faithful perfon in his abfence.

4.	The jaylor and his fervants, are exprefsly prohibited, on any account, to fell, or fuffer to be brought in to any of the prifoners, fpirits, or ftrong liquor, whereby they may be in danger of being intoxicated; and to ufe their utmoft endeavours to promote fobriety amongft thofe under their charge.

X	5. The

Digitized by

Google

Edinburgh.

Dumfries.

*54

I

Abe R DEEN.

Inverness

Tolbooth.

APPENDIX.

The like accident happened to the upper floor of the ’Tolbooth at a neat and clean prifon, the upper floor of which is now very properly arched over.

The Tolbooth at Invernejs has no fire-place, and is the moft dirty and offenfive prifon that I have feen in Scotland. The room for debtors is fix-teen feet by fourteen and a half: that for felons about thirteen feet and a half fquare, and only fix feet and a half high j the window is twenty inches by fix.*

In one of the piers of the ftone-bridge at Invernefsy there is a vaulted room intended for a prifon. This room was conftru&ed in 1684, when the bridge was built, but had not been opened for three years before my late vifit. Near the wall of the bridge there is a trap-door twenty-two inches fquare, and a few Heps down from it, an iron door (two feet three inches wide, and two feet and a half high,) from which there is a defcent of a few fteps more to the room juft mentioned, which is ten feet four inches by feven feet fix, and fix feet high. On the fides there is a ftone feat, a fmall window, and two apertures to dip for water, &c.

5.	The jaylor (hall keep the prifoners for debt, in the beft rooms, and feparate from criminals and disorderly perfons, and prevent, as much as poffible, their aflociating and converting together, and the friends and Servants of debtors. Shall be allowed at all convenient times, to bring in vivers for their Support.

6.	In order to make the priSon more healthy and clean, the jaylor Shall, at his own expence, cauSe pair and clean the Hairs, Sweep the rooms, and remove and carry away all filth and naftineSs, at leaft, three times in the week.

7.	The jaylor, in the event of his exa&ing, by himfclf, or his Servants, more fees than ftipulated as above, or in the event of tranfgreffing any of the rules or inftru&ions forefaid. Shall be difmiffed from his office, or otherwise puniflied as the magiflrates, for the time being, and council Shall judge proper.

It is recommended to the magiftrates, frequently to examine and enquire into the fidelity of the jaylor and his Servants; and the council hereby ordains thcSe dues and regulations to be printed and publifhed, that none may pretend ignorance; and ordains John Rowan jaylor, and his fucceffors in office, to affix a copy hereof in the moft publick part of the Tolbooth, under the penalty of ten pounds Scots.

* As this is the circuit-town for Seven other counties, (one third of Scotland,) I hope the judges will recommend the ere&ion of a new gaol. A regard to themfclves requires this; for the offenfive room in which the criminals are lodged, opens into the court.—Part of the forfeited eftates might be appropriated to that purpofe.

The

Digitized by

Google

I R E L A

N D.

*55

The following defcCts may be remarked in the prifons in Scotland. They	Scotland.

have no courts belonging to them,* and generally want water and fewers.

They are not vifited by the magiftratcs,. and too little attention is paid to the reparation of the fexes : the keepers are allowed licences for the fale of the moft pernicious liquors ; the confequence of which is, that the county allowance being paid in money to the prifoners, they generally fpend it in inftead of bread.

IRELAND.

I was happy in finding at Dublin in 1779, a	almoft	ready for Dublin

the removal of the prifoners into more airy and convenient apartments, in New-which I hoped the fhocking intercourfe of the two fexes which took place in the old prifon, would be avoided. This new prifon is one hundred and feventy feet in length, and has feparate courts for men and women. The cells on the firft and fecond floors are about twelve feet by eight, and on the upper floor twelve by four, all arched with brick, to prevent danger from fire, f I was forry to find dungeons, and wifhed they might never be ufed, except, at night for the condemned. It might be belt to convert the chapel at the top of the houfe into an infirmary j for the fick rooms are too fmall, and likely to produce infection.

In the two courts there are pumps. Great attention fhould be paid to air and cleanlinefs in the ftaircafes, cells and vaults, and in the narrow paflages,J to prevent them from becoming offenfive and infectious. I well remember the dreadful ftate o t Dublin Newgate in the beginning of the year 177 5, when I faw numbers of poor creatures, ill with the gaol	unattended and

difregarded.

* The original caufe of this feems to have been the following very fevere maxim in the Scotch law. “ After a debtor is imprifoned, he ought not to be indulged the benefit of the air, not even under a guard; for creditors have an intereft, that their debtors be kept under clofe confinement, that, by the fqualor carceris, they may be brought to pay their debt.” Aft Sell'. 14. June 1671.	The	Principles of the L of Scotland,5th edit, p.461.

f It would have been much better if the fame precaution had been ufed in London Newgate.

J The paflages are three feet and a half wide, and the ftaircafes only two feet one inch.

X 2	The

Digitized by v^ooQie

iS6

APPENDIX.

D V B L I N New-Prison.

The criminals in the gaols of Ireland are very numerous. One reafon of this may be, that in this country there are no houl'es of correction, unlefs cages could be called fo, in which drunken or riotous perfons are locked up for a night or two. * Another reafon is, that acquitted perfons are continued in confinement till they have difcharged their fees to the clerk of the crown, or peace, the fherifF, gaoler and turnkey, f Even boys almoft naked, and under the age of twelve, are fometimes confined a year or two for thefe fees, though amounting to no more than about forty {hillings. J How furprifing is it, that any kingdom can endure fuch injuftice ! It is a particular aggravation of it, that the prifoners thus confined, generally lofe, at the fame time, their allowance of bread. || I have heard that Lord chief juftice Afton often ordered the

• It may be an exception, that in a houfe adjoining to old Newgate called the black dog% there were feveral fines, &c. and that in another houfe (a fort of bridewell adjoining to the work-houfe in Dublin) I found in 1779 eleven young creatures ; fome of thefe for fmall offences were confined with outrageous lunatics. The magifhates feem to have overlooked a com-pafTionate direction in an aft of their legiflature (fee 3d of George III. Chap. XXVIII.) t€ that perfons of infane mind and outrageous behaviour ” are not to go in common with the other 4 prifoners.

f There is an aft for difcharging without fees, perfons who (hall be acquitted €t of offences “ for which they are or fhall be indifted, and for making a compenfation to fheriffs, gaolers, “ clerks of the crown, and clerks of the peace, for fuch fees,” by a prefentment on the refpeftive counties. But many that are acquitted receive no benefit by it, becaufe the prefentment muft be made by the foreman of the petty jury to the grand jury, and confirmed by the Judges of affize; and alfo the fum prefented at one afTize muft not exceed “ ten pounds if it be “ a county at large or ** five pounds, if it be a county of a city or county of a town.” 3d George III. Cap. V. p. 100, 101.

I The fees of the Clerk of the crown, or peace £ 1	82	Irijh.

Sheriff	-	-	-079

Gaoler	-	-	-079

Turnkey	-	-	-oil

N. B. One fhilling Englifi? is thirteen pence Irijh.

|| Since writing the above, by an aft of 21 and 22 of George III. for revifing, continuing and amending feveral temporary ftatutes, it has been enafted (page 827) €f that every perfon “ confined or to be confined in any of his majefty’s gaols within this kingdom, charged with “ any criminal offence, fhall be intitled to receive the prifoners allowance of bread, during the *' time of his or her faid confinement; and if fuch perfon fhall, after having been tried for fuch “ offence and acquitted thereof, be confined for his or her fees, every fuch perfon fo confined ** fhall be in like manner intitled to the like allowance.”—This however being the laft claufe in the aft, as Sir Francis Hutcbinfon juftly obferved to me, has efcaped the attention of the compiler of the fmall gaol-code.

acquitted

Digitized by

Google

IRELAND.

157-

acquitted prifoners to be difcharged. In 1779 I obtained the releafe of fome	Dublin

boys from the county gaol at	Kilmainham, on paying for them half fees ; and of	New-

Prison.

fome others from Newgate,the Iheriffs of Dublinconfenting to relinquifh their fees. But as thofe boys had been affociated with the molt profligate and abandoned felons for many months, I did not in the leaft wonder to find that fome of them returned to their former habitation in a few days. In 1783 the deputy keeper of the new prifon gave me a lift of fixteen detained for their fees.

At Kilmainham alfo I found there were fifteen acquitted prifoners confined for their fees in the dungeons. At both thefe prifons I reftored to their families feveral who feemed the moft proper objefts of companion. Some had children dying with the fmallpox, others had hardly rags to cover them. But this diftrefs had no more effect on the clerk of the crown, fheriffs and gaolers, than to engage them to give up half their fees.

In 1782, a bill was brought in by Mr. Provo 0:Hutwhich paffed into an aft for difeharging all thofe who were then in confinement for fees only,

(21ft and 2 2d of George III. Chap. XLI.) I have every reafon to hope, from the attention and humanity of this gentleman, that during the prefent feffion, a perpetual aft for the fame purpofe will be paffed.

On pafling the old prifon frequently, I could not avoid obferving officers from the recruiting regiments waiting at the doors and windows, to receive either the offenders who were permitted to enlift, or any of their affociates.

When the exceffive profligacy and daring wickedncfs of this fet of people is confidered, the moft melancholy apprehenfions muft be entertained, of the dreadful confequences likely to refult from their mixture with thofe who may have had a fober education, and have entered voluntarily into the fervice of their country and likewife of the danger to fociety in general, from turning loofe fuch a fet of wretches at the clofe of a war.

Our Englijh prilons have alfo contributed their fhare towards recruiting the army, enlifting being the condition on which many have obtained their releafe from confinement, or immunity from fome other punifhinent. I fhall make no farther remark on this praftice, but that if it be a neceffary one, the legiflature may receive fome fatisfaftion from the effefts of their late falutary *

* I (hall always refleft with pleafure on the unexpc&ed honour which at this time was done me by the College.

f These dreadful confequences have followed in a new raifed regiment, which I faw in Scotland in 1782.

laws

Digitized by v^ooQle

APPENDIX.

t58

Dublin. laws refpecfting the health of prifoners.	mode	had been adopted while

prifons were in their former ftate, it would have been the occafion of carrying the moft fatal difeafes into the midlt of our fcamen and foldiers.

Marshalsea. There is a new Marfoalfeaprilon in Dublin. The .firft ftone was laid, as appears by the infcription, July 3, 1775. At my vifit in 1779, here were about fixty prifoners.*—In the city	,which is a very old building,

there were fifty-five debtors. Some debtors in this and the other prifons, being not alimented, are obje&s of compafiion. But many of them are relieved by the care of a humane fociety at Dublin, fimilar to that called the Society in London.—Such focieties deferve the higheft praife. I wifh however to recommend to compafiion other prifoners (whofe’miferies have been long hid from the eyes of the public) who, though they feem to deferve afiiftance lefs, yet need it the more, to fave them from the ruin to which the bad ftate of the prifons expofes them. . t House	I	obferved	with	pleafure,	the	progrcfiive improvements in the Houfe of

°F	Induftry.	At	my	laft vifits, the houfe, infirmary, and cells for the lunatics

were quite clean, and the numerous inhabitants quiet and orderly; which is chiefly owing to the daily inflection of the governors in rotation. In the year which ended March 25, 1782, there came in voluntarily two thoufand eight hundred and nineteen, and four hundred and fixty were compelled. Auguft 2, 1783, the number was one thoufand four hundred and forty.

There is an Irifh a£t for preferving the health of prifoners, palled in the 17th and 18th of George III. Chap. XXVIII. fimilar to the Englifh actf for

* In one of the infolvent afts in Ireland (nth George II. Chap. XVI. p. 9S6) I found a fir.gular claufe, which I with had been inferted in fome of our late infolvent afts; to compel debtors, who “ chufe rather to continue in prifon, and fpend their, fubrtance there, than dif-covcr, and deliver up to their creditors, their ellate and effefts, in order to the fatisfaftion of their juft debts,” &c.

f This differs from the	Englijh aft in one important circumftance.	The Englijb aft requires

“ the walls and cielings of the feveral cells and wards, both of the debtors and the felons, “ and alfo of any other rooms ufed by the prifoners in their refpeftive gaols and prifons, 'where “ felons are ufually confined, to be feraped and white-waftied, once in the year at lealt, to be ** regularly waftied and kept clean, &c.” whereas the Irijh aft requires the fame precautions in the cells, wards, and rooms of gaols and prifons without reftriftion ; for the claufe “ 'where felons are ufually confined” is omitted. I have known it pleaded as an excufe for not white-wafhing and keeping clean prifons in England, where only debtors or petty offenders have been confined, that, they were not obliged to it by the aft of parliament.

the

Digitized by LjOOQle

IRELAND.

the fame purpofe, but it was not known in any of the prifons. There is alfo an aft of the fame year, fimilar to the Englijh aft, for " the punifhment, by hard labour, of offenders who, for certain crimes, are or fhall become liable to be tranfported. ” But the hulks on the Thames having cruelly deftroyed many healthy and robufh young men, their cries probably reached the Irijh fhore, and prevented any proceedings in confequence of that aft.

In 1782, I found that the Houfe of Commons had taken into confideration that part of the police which refpefts prifons, and had appointed a gaol committee for this purpofe. To this committee I reported the ftate of feveral of the prifons in Dublin*

I carefully infpefted the gaols in Dublin in 1783. The following remarks on the new prifon I think particularly worth mentioning. It is not kept clean—The pumps being out of order there is no regular fupply of water— There is no proper feparation of the fexes from one another—or of petty offenders from the moft abandoned criminals—Numbers of acquitted prifoners are detained for the fees—Such as are committed to hard labour are confined in idlenefs—There is no bedding though the floors are flone—Spirituous

# At my vilit in June 1782, the Number of Prifoners was as follows.

	Debtors.		Criminals.
	Men,	Women. Men, Women,	
New Prifon	3	O 82 - 42	
Old Newgate	2	O 1	'S
Four-court Marlhalfea	H9	8	3 0
City Marlhalfea	47	6	0 0
Thomas-Court and Donore	1	1	0 0
City-Bridewell	0	O	2 21
Kilmainham	3°	2 1	iS 2
The Number of Prifoners in		Auguft 1783	was.
		Debtors,	Criminals,
The New Prifon	-	7	120
The Black Dog Prifon	-	18	9
Four-court Marlhalfea	-	130	. 0
City Marlhalfea	-	61	0
Thomas-Court and Donore		3	0
Kilmainham	-	4	2S
City-Bridewell	-	0	hh

0 In the city-bridewell there were alfo fixtcen lunatics, fome of whom were confined in the fame rooms with the other prifoners,* No phyfician or apothecary has attended in this houfe, for two or three years,

liquors

Digitized by

Google

‘S'J

Dublin.

New

Prison.

i6o

APPENDIX.

Dublin.

liquors are fold in the prifon*—New comers are robbed, or ftripped and abufed for the penny pot or garnifhf—The proper prifoners have not the ule of the day-rooms J—The dungeons are ufed as lodging-rooms for prifoners before they are condemned—The fick have no proper rooms or beds, and no attention was paid to them ||—-No bath§—No divine fervice—The keeper does not refide in the prifon—Criminals are made turnkeys**—-The act for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up; nor any table of fees, rules or orders—The allowance, two-pennyworth of bread a dayj but being delivered only twice a week, and not fixed by weight, feme of the prifoners are almoft ftarved.4.

• A noggin or gill of that pernicious and deftruftive liquor ’whijkey, is fold in Dublin fo cheap as three halfpence or two pence, and half a pint for three pence or four pence. This makes it the common liquor of prifoners and of the lower clafs of people, who are often intoxicated by it almoll to madnefs.

f Garnish is three (hillings and nine pence halfpenny, feveral of thofe whom I had releafed gave the fame account of it.

I The day-room on the women’s fide was always ftiut up. At my laft vifit the condemned criminals were in the men’s day-room; and the women’s day-room was kept locked, for two or three felons who lodged in the deputy keeper’s room to play in at tennis and other diverfions.

|| Two of the committee of the Houfe of Commons in June 1782 accompanied me to the new prifon, and examined fome of the fick who lay on the flone-floors totally negledted. Dr. Cleghorn and Dr. Scott have been fince ordered by the grand jury to attend them ; but no bedding, no alteration of diet, and no nurfes are ordered for them. I was forry to find in 1783, that the former ingenious young phyfician had died of the gaol fever.

§ The only building defigned for a bath which I faw in the gaols in Ireland', was in the court-yard at Trim, June 17, 1782. I looked into it, and found it was the gaoler’s pig-fty.

*# This prifon is fecured by a military guard.

-I- The ajfixe of bread in Dublin is fixed every week, and put up in the Tolfey.

June 15, 1781.	Auguft 4, 1783.

		lb.	oz.	dr.			lb.	oz.	dr.
White bread.	Twopenny loaf,	0	12	7	White bread.	Twopenny loaf.	0	11	7
	Fourpenny,	l	9	7		Fourpenny,	1	7	7
Hcujbzld	Fourpenny,	2	6	7	Houjhold	Fourpenny,	2	3	7
	Sixpenny,	3	10	2		Sixpenny,	3	5	6
									To

Digitized by kjOOQle

1

IRELAND.

161

To this gaol there are ample appointments. But fuch appointments can be of little confequence, while the fheriffs and magiftrates negleft their duty, and feldom or never infpedt the gaols or punifh defaulters.—Are not fuch magiftrates inexcufably guilty ?—Should they not be confidered as ‘acceffary to the crimes and abufes and miferies occafioned by their neglect ?

Most of the remarks now made on this gaol at	,are applicable to

many of the county gaols.—I enumerate thefe particulars, not with a view of aggravating the idea of inattention to thefe objecls in	or	making

a comparifon between their management, and that in this country (which is ftill greatly defeftive) ; but with a view of inciting the public-fpirited Irijh gentlemen, now occupied on this fubjedt, to fet an example of a thorough and effectual reform, which may be imitated by this nation.

By an a£t of 21ft and 22d of Geo. III. all judges, from and after the 24th of June 1783, are required to give in charge to the grand juries the two adts, one for the better preventing the feverities and unjuft exactions pradtifed by gaolers againft their prifoners, &c. (3d Geo. III.) the other for preferving the health of prifoners in gaol, &c. (17 th and 18th Geo. III.) and the judges are further required to examine into the ftate and fituation of the different gaols, and the condudt of the gaolers, and to impofe a fine on the county not exceeding £$00 for negledt of repairing and enlarging fuch gaols.—Lord Temple, Lord Lieutenant in 1782, whofe fpirited and patriotic exertions in Ireland will be long remembered there, ordered the Iheriffs to report the ftate of the county gaols, directing at the fame time the (fix) adts relative to prifons* to be fent to every Iheriff. His lordlhip alfo introduced a new mode of execution at the New-prifon and Kilmainham. The criminals come out of a front window on a fcaffold, which falling down, they are left hanging.

Having taken notice of feveral of the orphan-fchools abroad, I cannot help adding an account of fome particulars relating to the Proteftant Jchools. Their number is forty-one, befides four nurferies to fupply them with children. In vifiting them I carried with me a fermon preached before the incorporated fociety, (to which is added an account of the feveral fchools) publifhed in 1781, at the requeft of the fociety. In the two fchools near Dublin, that at Clontarf-Strand for boys, and at Santry for girls, I was greatly furprifed to find but forty-fix in the former, and thirty-four in the latter, though the numbers given in the publifhed account were a hundred boys and forty girls. At Kilkenny and Cajlledermot the deficient numbers were twenty-

Dublin

New-

Prison.

Charter-

Schools.

* See the laft note in page 156.

Y

fix

Digitized by

Google

\6i

Charter-

Schools.

appendix:

fix in the former, and feventeen in the latter; and there was a like deficiency in fome of the other fchools. Thefe fchools are managed by a committee of fifteen, who meet every week in Dublin.* This committee has lately difcovered a confcioufnefs of their error in publifhing fuch falfe accounts, and fuffering them to be delivered from the pulpit; for in the la the true numbers feem to be given; and they amount to about feven hundred (or near a third) lefs than the numbers which bad been before dated-

The maders of thefe fchools hold a certain quantity of land belonging to the fociety, for which they pay no higher rent than was paid when the ground was originally granted. Every mader is allowed a falary of	and

contra&s for the clothing, diet, and work of the children. Thefe contracts are fo low {viz. annual clothing, fi : 5:0 diet, ^3:2: 6) that the date of moft of the fchools which I vifited was fo deplorable, as to difgrace protedantifm and encourage popery in Ireland, rather than the contrary. —If the committee find a decreafe in their funds, a lefs number of thefe fchools with proper attention-, will do the fociety much more credit than a large number of fuch fickly, naked and half darved children as I found in them, f In fhort; thefe fchools demand a thorough parliamentary inquiry.

May I be allowed to hint; that there fliould be one plain decent uniform for all the children—Didinft fchools for each fex—Clean linen twice a week— A convenient bath—A larger allowance for diet, and for walhing, fire and candles—A crib beddead for each child—Rooms appropriated to the fick, and an apothecary for each houfe—Didindl work-rooms and dining-rooms, and an area inclofed for play—That the mader’s or midrefs’s bed-room Ihould be fituated fo as to look into the children’s dormitory—The provincial nurferies abolilhed, and that at Dublin put on a larger plan (fince if proper attention were paid to the children, the admiffion of a child would be a matter of favour and intreaty)—That a check Ihould be kept on the local committee by the

* There is befides a local committee for fuperintending each fchool.

f In the Account of the Highland Schools in Scotland, page 26, it is faid, €t in fa& the tf infufficiency of the fchool-maflers falaries has been found to be one great fource of irre-€t gularities.” Such teachers cannot be zealous in the difeharge of their office, or give due attention to their fcholars. (€ For thefe reafons, and confidering the advanced price of provifions in every part of the country, as well as the importance of placing their fchool-(< mailers in a fituation above want, the fociety anxioufly wilh that every fchool-mafler in i€ their fervice fhall have their yearly falary increafed. ”

occafional

Digitized by

Google

HULKS ON THE THAMES.

163

occafional infpedtion of one of the committee of fifteen, whofe travelling expenccs may be paid by the fociety—That the rules and orders for every department be confpicuoufly hung up—That premiums and every encouragement fhould be given to the moft cleanly and induftrious children—And the houfes lime-whited once a year.

HULKS on the THAMES.

In my former work, p.75, I ventured to pafs l'ome cenfures on the management of convidts committed to hard labour on the Thames-, and in a fubfe-quent vifit I was ftill more convinced of the faults I had obferved. The effedts of thefe became fo alarming, as to attradt the notice of parliament. A public inquiry was inftituted, by which it appeared, that from Auguft 1776, when the convidts were firft put on board the JuJlitia, to March 26, 1778, out of fix hundred and thirty-two prifoners who had been received, one hundred and feventy-lix had died. It is with pleafure that I can give an account, which will fhew in a ftriking light the beneficial effedts of this parliamentary inquiry, as to the health of the prifoners, and the obligations the public were under to the committee appointed on this occafion, and particularly to its chairman. Sir Charles	Bunbury.

At my vifit Nov. 16, 1779, there were at	,	for the reception of

convidts, an old India man, called the 'JuJlitia and a frigate, the Cenjor. In the former were two hundred and fifty-fix ; and in the latter, two hundred and fifty. That which was firft called the	,	is converted into an hofpital

lhip, in which were twenty patients.—Another, called the	,	was

empty: in this, convidts were examined by the furgeon, and continued three days, before they were fent either to the hulks, or to the hofpital lhip.*

The prifoners on board the JuJlitia looked healthy and well; the decks were clean. They had bedding; their provifions were good of the fort; and there were not any (as at my former vifits) without Ihoes and ftockings.—I found the Cenjor, below deck, cleaner than the JuJlitia-, yet, on carefully viewing the

* Bv the aft 19th Geo. III. Cap. LXXIV. p. 1418.

Y	2convidts.

Digitized by

Google

Charter-

Schools.

Hulks.

164

APPENDIX.

Hulks. convidts, they had not fo healthy and contented an afpedt as thofe in the other;

and a much greater proportion of this Ihip’s company was fent to the hofpital. This created in me a fufpicion that fomething was wrong. I examined all their provifions, bedding, &c. and found that they were the fame as on board the JuJiitia. It would be highly proper that a table of their ftated allowance fhould be hung up,* and feales, weights and meafures afligned them, to check the purlers who give out their provifion. j- In the hofpital Ihip, on the two decks (one of which is for recovering patients) were twenty-five cradles with beds, but fmaller than thofe in the royal hofpitals at Hajlar and Plymouth, where all lie Angle. Of the few who were very fick, I found their irons were off. The cleanlinefs and quietnefs of the hofpital did honour to the condudlor. It is to be wilhed that the patients had better nourilhment, as that, in many cafes would be more falutary than medical preferiptions.

There were about one hundred and fifty at work in the IVarren in 1779, molt of them clothed in a brown uniform. I obferved that the fituation of thefe unhappy people was altered for the better. Yet their bread allowance of one pound a day was too little, efpecially for thofe who worked, although they had an extra allowance of beer.

At my vifit Dec. 27, 1782, the Cenfor and the Reception were laid up. There were on board the JuJiitia one hundred and eighty convidts, and in the hofpital Ihip twenty-four. Of thefe, a hundred and fixteen were employed in removing ballall, planking, &c. on fhore; and thirty-fix were heaving ballad in the lighters. The hofpital Ihip was very clean, the other not dirty.

Some alteration is made in the bread allowance : the mefs of fix men is now feven pounds. The diet table J is hung up in the of the JuJiitia : I could

• See a good regulation for the prifoners of war. Article ix.

f Pursers weights are known on board (hips to be two ounces in a pound ftiort, their meafures in proportion.

\ A Table of Diet expended by the Convi&s on board the Juftitia hulk daily.

Each mefs is for fix men, with feven pounds of bread every day.

Every day ; a pint of barley or rice made into three quarts of foup.

Sunday. Six pounds of fait pork or feven pounds of beef,, with five quarts of beer. Monday, Wcdnefday, Friday. Six pounds of bullock’s head.

Tuefday, Thurfday, Saturday. Two pounds of cheefe, and five quarts of beer. Sunday, Monday, Wednfefday, Friday. A pint of peafe, and barley made into three quarts of foup.

Tuefday, Thurfday, Saturday. A pint of oatmeal made into burgoo.

wilh

Breakfait.

Dinner.

Supper.

Digitized by v^ooQle

HULKS on the THAMES.

wifh it were for the infpedion of the convids. There fhould be to each bed in winter, an additional blanket.

At my vifit Odober 19, 1783, there were on board the	a	hundred

and feventy-two, and in the hofpital fhip twenty-two. The men in the JuJlitia looked well, which I doubt not was in a great meafure owing to their being employed, and alfo reftrained from fpirituous and other ftrong liquors.—Of late, but few of them have died: this (hews that their fituation is better with refped to health, but the afibciation of fo many criminals is utterly deftrudive to morals.—The Cenfor had a hundred and thirty-feven convids for our fettle-ments; many of whom being lickly objeds, and in want of clothes and bedding, I was perfuaded would die in the pafiage. My mind reverted to the Portugue/e method with their convids. (Seepage 106.)

I lhall take the liberty here to fubjoin a few additional remarks on the gaol fever; in which, if I fhall appear to have invaded the province of the gentlemen of the faculty, I hope to be pardoned, from the confideration that my experience in this matter may in fome refped fupply my want of other means of knowledge.*

If it were afked, what is the caufe of the gaol fever ? it would in general be readily replied, “the want of frefh air and cleanlinefs.” But as I have found in fome prifons abroad, cells and dungeons as offenfive and dirty as any I have obferved in this country, where, however, this diflemper was unknown, I am obliged to look out for fome additional caufe for its produdion. I am of opinion, that the fudden change of diet and lodging fo affeds the /pints of new convids, that the general caufes of putrid fevers exert an immediate effed upon them. Hence it is common to fee them ficken and die in a Ihort time, with very little apparent illnefs. Convids are generally flout robuft young men, who have been accuftomed to free diet, tolerable lodgings, and vigorous exer-cife. Thefe are ironed, and thruft into clofe offenfive dungeons, fome of them without draw or other bedding ; in which they continue, in winter, fifteen or fixteen hours out of the twenty-four, in utter inadivity, and immerfed in the

• I have been frequently alked what precautions I ufe, to preferve myfelf from infeftion in the pr hons and hofpitals which I vifit. I here anfwer, next to the	and	of	the

Author of my being, temperance and cleanlinefs are my prefervatives. Trufting in Divine Providence, and believing myfelf in the way of my duty, I vifit the mod noxious cells; and while thus employed, “ I fear no evil.”—I never enter an hofpital or prifon before breakfaft, and in an offenfive room I feldom draw my breath deeply.

noxious

Google

165

Hulks.

Remarks

ON THE

Gaol Fever.

166

APPENDIX.

Remarks

on THE

■ Gaol Fever.

noxious effluvia of their own bodies. On this account, the gaol diftemper is always obferved to reign more in our prifons during winter than fummer ;* contrary, I prefume, to the nature of other putrid difeafes. Their diet is at the fame time low and fcanty j they are generally without firing; and the powers of life foon become incapable of refilling fo many caufes of ficknefs and defpair.

After the gaol fever has prevailed in a prifon in which the fides &c. are brick, ftone or plafter, nothing will be fo effectual in deftroying all remains of infection, as fcraping the walls, and then waffling them with hot lime, flaked in boiling water. But if the Tides &c. of the prifon be wood, the mode of fumigation pra&ifed by the ingenious Dr. Lind for infefled pips, will be very proper: I fflall therefore extract fome of the moll important particulars of this procefs from the account with which the Doclor favoured me.

“ Charcoal fires fflould be lighted in the morning, and allowed to remain “ till evening, and half a pound of brimftone thrown upon each, their fmoke “ in the mean time being clofely confined. They may be 'made in iron “ pots. This fumigation fflould be repeated every day for a fortnight. “ Every evening after the fumigation, the ports and hatchways fflould be “opened, and the infide of the fflip waffled with warm vinegar: and after “ the lafl fumigation, before the men return to the fflip, the decks fflould be “ thoroughly fcraped and cleaned. If the infeflion has been very violent, “ the parts of the fflip moft expofed to it may alfo be white-waffled.—Every “ thing ragged and dirty fflould be deftroyed, as alfo the clothes and bedding of “ fuch as brought the infection into the fliip, the bedding of fuch as have died “ of the fever, and unlefs the infection has been very mild, the bedding of “ fuch as have had the fever though recovered. The remaining clothes and “ bedding fflould be purified by being expofed twice a week to the fleams of “ the brimftone and charcoal j or when the brimftone might be fuppofed to “ injure the clothes, they may be hung up in a clofe place, expofed to the “ fmoke of tobacco ftrewed on charcoal fires.I Linens, and fuch articles as

• In converfation with the phyfician to the military hofpital at	on	my	obferving	that

the windows of the wards were fhut; he anfwered, “ almofl all our diforders are in winter, for “ the Ruffians inclofe themfelvcs in hot rooms, and diflike the frelh air, even before the cold “ months commence.”

+ I have obferved in prifons abroad a very cheap and pleafant fumigation, which fur-prifingly correfts the offenfivenefs of the bad air. I fuppofe it is the fame as is ufed in catholic churches, viz.juniper berries thrown upon burning coals in a chafing-dilh.

“ will

Digitized by

Google

HULKS on the THAMES.

167

will admit of being wet, lhould after the firft fumigation be fteeped for Remarks " feveral hours in cold water or leys, be well wafhed, and then dried in the 0N THE “ open air.—If, during the fortnight of this fumigation, any perfon is taken Gaol Fev£i “ ill of the fever, the fortnight fhould again commence from the day on which “ fuch perfon leaves the fhip.—Stridt attention fhould be paid to the cleanlinefs “ of the men both in their perfons and apparel: fuch as are fluggifh and dirty “ fhould be made to bathe and clean themfelves ; and a fufficient quantity of “ flops fhould be iflued, that every man may have a change of clothes.” *

In my viflts in 1779, I found only one perfon that had the gaol fever j he was in Newgate under fentence of death. In 1782, I did not find one perfon that had that diforder in any prifon throughout the kingdom. But from the bad conftrudtion of many of our gaols, and the inattention of magiftrates to in-- fpedt them, and to fee that gaolers &c. do their duty, I found in 1783 feveral of our prifons verging to their old flate. The convidts fent from Maidjlone,

Chelmsford, Glocejler,	Newgate, Borough-gaol, &c. confirm my fufpicions that

this diforder is not eradicated. I am perfuaded that a thorough reform of the prifons is not to be expedited, without the further and more effedtual interference of the legiflature.

I fhall clofe this part, with reciting a few particulars which I think of confequence in the conftruftion and regulation of hofpitals, molt of which have been collected from the obfervations I have made abroad.

The 'fituation of an infirmary or hofpital fhould be on elevated ground, gear a ftream, and out of a town—the entrance to it by a flight of eafy fteps —the wards from twenty -five to thirty feet high, arched, and without buildings over themj-—diftindt wards for medical and chirurgical patients j| ——

Remarks

on*

Hospitals*

•Sir John Pringle, in his Anni<vcrfary Difcourfe at the Royal Society, on the fubjeft of Captain Cook's fuccefsful care of the fhip’s crew in his voyage round the world* and the medal defervedly adjudged to him on that account, has the following paflage at page 26.	**	It	is

*s well known how much cleanlinefs conduces to health ; but it is not fo obvious how much it “ alfo tends to good order and other virtues.. That diligent officer was perfuaded,—that fuch. t€ men as he could induce to be more cleanly than’they were difpofed to be of themfelves, ** became at the fame time more fober, more orderly, and more attentive to their duty. (This remark is confirmed by an obfervation in the Spectator, No. 631.)	“ Several vices*

«« deftruftive both to mind and body, are inconiiflent with the habit of cleanlinefs.99

+ See Rome and Florence.	J	Bologna,%	Florence.	U	Burgos,	Bordeaux*

rows

/

Digitized by k^ooQle

168

APPENDIX.

Remarks

on

Hospitals.

Tower.

rows of windows pppofite to one another, and even with the cieling, and hafps and ftaples to the upper fafhes to prevent their being fhutfftone gallery for more readily opening and fhutting the windowsf^J—apertures in the ciel-ingfcj—the fire-places in the middle of the longer fide of the wards—the beds in fpacious recefiesf^j—the bedfteads iron, and the beds on varnifhed boards with hair mattrefiesf^—‘in each ward a ciftern, bafon and towel for the patients^—the vaults on the outfide of the wardsfg^)—airy rooms and refe&ories for convalefcent patients^,)— a convenient bath, with an eafy defcent into	a	piazza	and fpacious walk to induce patients to take

the air and exercifef'^—two doors to each ward, one of them iron lattice^— the wards wafiied once a weekfzwj—ftraped and lime-whited at leaft once a year	(n)—and the patients hands and feet waftied at their admiffion.f^

ENGLAND.

L O N D O N.

THE TOWER is a ftrong fortrefs, and the only prifon in	for

ftate delinquents of rank. The care of it is committed to an officer called the Conjlable of the Tower, who has under him a lieutenant, deputy-lieutenant called the governor, and many other officers, among whom are forty warders, whofe uniform is the fame with the king’s yeomen of the guards. Nineteen of thefe warders have feparate houfes well furnifhed, in any of which, as the governor is pleafed to order, the ftate delinquents may be confined;

(a)	Newport in the Ifle of Wight.

(b)	Bologna.

(c)	Great hofpital at Madrid, Lyons,

(d)	Toledo, Burgos.

(e)	Florence.

(f)	Peterfburg, Mofcow.

(g)	Milan, Utrecht.

(h)	' Lyons, Peterfburg, Vienna.

(i)	Worcelter, Gloceller, Mancheder.

(k)	Haflar, Plymouth.

(l)	Bologna.

(m)	Norfolk hofpital.

(n)	Edinburgh, Haflar.

(o)	Lille.

and

Digitized by

Google

LONDON.

169

and the cuftom has been to afiign them two of the beft rooms on the firft floor;	London.

then, iron bars are fixed to their windows by the board of works. Sometimes they are committed to clofe confinement; but in general they are at liberty to walk in the area of the Tower, attended always by a warder.

There had been no prifoners here for feveral years before my vifit in 1779.

When there are any, they are generally foon brought to a legal trial, and confequently their confinement is not long. Six fhillings and eight pence a day is allowed by government for their fubfiftence, but they feldom accept this allowance.—Sep. 1, 1783, there were no prifoners. Mr. Laurens was the laft, who went out Dec. 31, 1781.

In this fortrefs, befides the houfes jult mentioned, there are feveral public offices and ftore-houfes; fuch, particularly, as the office of Ordnance, the Jewel-office, the Mint, and buildings for holding artillery and arms.

NEWGATE.

In 1779 the Gaol was clean, and free from offenfive fcents. On the felons fide there were only three fick, in one of the upper wards. An infirmary was building near the condemned cells.—Of the one hundred and forty-one felons &c. there were ninety-one convicts and fines,* who had only the prifon allowance of a penny loaf a day : Mr. Akerman generouflv contributed towards their relief.—In the felons court, the table of fees painted on a board was hung up.

This gaol was burnt by the rioters in 1780, but is rebuilt on the fame plan.

The men’s quadrangle is now divided into three courts. In the firft court, are thofe that pay three fhillings and fix pence a week for a bed; in the next the poorer felons ; and in the other, now the women. Under the chapel are cells for the refra&ory. Two rooms adjoining to the condemned cells, are built for an infirmary, in one of which, at my laft vifit, there were fixteen fick. Of the two hundred and ninety-one prifoners in 1782, two hundred and twenty-five were men, and fixty-fix women. Upwards of a hundred of them were tranfports, eighty-nine fines, twenty-one under fentence of death, and the remainder lay for trial. Some of the condemned had been long fick and

* There fhould be a reparation in all prifons of thofe called fines, who are committed for a term ; from thofe, who are only committed on fufpicion, either of felony or mifdemeanors.

'	Z	languifhing

Digitized by

Google

170

London,

APPENDIX.

languifhing in their cells.*—Weight of the penny loaf Dec. 18, 1782, eight ounces and a half} the three halfpenny loaf, Aug. 22, 1783, thirteen ounces.

After the riots in 1780, the debtors were confined in Clerkenwell bridewell or the New Prifon, but at my lafb vifit they were in Newgate. The felons on the common fide now have a three halfpenny loaf a day. The chaplain now has not the freedoms, but his falary is augmented to £180, and the fheriffs pay him fj: 12:0. The furgeon’s falary is augmented-to £100.

I cannot forbear mentioning a practice which probably had its origin from the ancient mode of torture. When prifoners capitally convitted at the Bailey are brought up to receive fentence, and the judge aflcs, “ What have “ you to fay why judgment of death and execution fhould not be awarded “ againft you ? ” the executioner flips a whipcord noofe about their thumbs. This cuftom ought to be abolifhed.

1779, Aug. 16, Debtors 51.	Felons	d  <8	141.
1782, Dec. 18, - - 3.	-		291.
1783, Aug. 22, - - 113.			224*
T H E F L	E E	T.	

This Prifon was burnt by the rioters in 1780. It is rebuilt on the fame plan. The floors of the cellar, hall, and firft ftory are now ftone, and arched with brick. The tapfter (till has all the cellar floor: he and feveral of the prifoners keep dogs, which nuifance fhould never be permitted in prifons. The billiard and miflifippi tables are now put down, and the code of laws abolifhed. In 1783, from July 7, to Aug. 25, not one prifoner was brought in.—Robert Bajfan, a crown prifoner, was committed Nov. 29, 1776, and after the fire furrendered himfelf under the proclamation Nov. 17, 1781, and was here at

* At the end of the book I lhall give a table of all the executions for London and Middle/tx during eleven years paft.—An execution day is too much, with us, a day of riot and idlenefs, and it is found by experience, that the minds of the populace are rather hardened by the fpeftacle, than affefted in any falutary manner. Might not thefe evils be amended by having the report within a week after fentence, and the execution, foon after, either in the area before Newgate, or before the Sellions- houfe ?	•

my

Digitized by v^ooQie

LONDON.

171

my laft vifit.—Claufes againft fpirituous liquors are hung up. Now alfo is hung up the following table of fees, but no table of bequefts.*

			In the Houfe.	In the Rules.
*779>	Aug.		Prifoners, 147.	37-
1782,	Jan.	8>	- - - 62.	6.
	Dec.	3°>	- - - 159.	31*
1783,	Aug.	27,	- - - 141.	49.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Warden of the prifon of the Fleet, for any prifoner or prifoners commitment, or coming into gaol or chamber rent there, or difcharge from thence, in any civil a&ion. Settled and eftablifhed the nineteenth day of January, in the third year of the reign of his majefty king George the fecond, A. D. 1729, purfuant to an a£t of parliament lately made, intitled. An a£t for the relief of debtors, in refpedt to the imprifonment of their perfons.

£. S. D. 1	6	8

o	13	+

074

026 o	1	3

o	i	3

0	0	7i

020 068

Every prifoner charged with one or more actions (who at his own defire fhall go on the mailer’s fide) to pay to the warden for a commitment fee Every prifoner charged with one or more a&ions (who fhall go on the common fide) not being intitled to partake of the poor’s box, to pay Every prifoner intitled to partake of the poor’s box, nothing.

Every prifoner to pay for his difcharge	-

Every fuch prifoner on the mailer’s fide, who at his own defire fhall have a bed to himfelf, to pay for chamber room, ufe of bed and bedding and fheets, to the warden per week -	-	-	-

If two in abed, and no more, for chamber room, ufe of bed, bedding and fheets, each to pay to the warden per week	-	-

If the prifoner finds his own bed, bedding and fheets (which the warden is in no fort to hinder him of) then he fhall pay for chamber room to the warden per week	-	-	-	-	-

If there be two prifoners in one bed, finding their own bed, bedding and fheets, then each of them to pay to the warden per week Every prifoner not being intitled to partake of the poor’s box, to pay to the porter and gaoler, now called turnkeys, on his commitment Every prifoner on a commitment upon a furrender at a judge’s chamber, to pay to the tipflaff ------

* It was ordered by the judges, Eyre, Price, Page* and Denton: tf that a table of gifts and " bequefls made for the benefit of the prifoners in the Fleet, expreffing the particular purpofes (t for which the fame were given, be prepared by the warden, and hung up in the hall of the “ faid prifon.” See table of fees, Trinity term 1727, in the report of the Gaol Committee, page 16.

Z 2	Every

London.

Digitized by k^ooQle



appendix.

London.

Every prifoner on a commitment upon a Habeas Corpus at a judge’s chambers, £, S. D.

to pay to the tipftaff	-	-	-	-	042

Every prifoner on a commitment in court, to pay to the tipftaff	-	076

No other fees for any prifoner for the ufe of chamber, bed, bedding or fheets, or upon commitment or difcharge of any prifoner in any civil a&ion, nor any commitment fee to be taken of any prifoner in titled to partake of the poor’s box, nor any chamber rent to be taken of any prifoner on the common fide.

Ed. Bellamy.	R. Raymond.

John Thompson.	R. Eyre.

Rob. Alsop.	Tho. Pengelly.

John Barnard.'

NEW LUDGATE.

No alteration. Chaplain	now Mr. Rojc.

1779,	Aug.	12,	Debtors	15.

1782,	Dec.	14,---------- 20.

1783,	Aug.	28,	- 15.

POULTRY COMPTER.

Chaplain, now Mr. Davis. Duty, every Sunday. Surgeons, Meflrs. Devaynes and Higginfon.—This prifon was thoroughly repairing and white-wafhing. For this improvement the prifoners are obliged to the fpirited and humane exertion of Mr. lheriff ‘Taylor.Felons now have a three halfpenny loaf a day, (Aug. 1783, thirteen ounces). There is now painted on a board at the door, that no vifitors are to be admitted on Sundays, from ten to twelve, and from three to four.

1779, Aug. 6, Debtors 46. Felons &c. 5. Imprefled Men 3.

1782,	Dec. 16,	-	-	26.	-	-	-	7.

1783,	Aug. 24,	-	-	30.	-	-	-	19.

WOOD-STREET COMPTER.

Now repairing. Surgeon, now Mr.	—The matter, &c. of the

Drapers company come here once a year, and releafe feveral debtors for fmall fums, and leave forty (hillings for the remainder, from a bequeft of Mr. John

Kendrick.		Debtors.	Felons &c.		Debtors,	Felons &c.
l779> Aug.	6,	58.	45-	1782, Dec. 15,	54.	*7-
	 Nov.		38.	II.	1783, Aug. 24,	34-	36.  O]

Digitized by

Google

L O N P O N.

• Of the thirty-fix felons &c. in 1783, there were three fines and twenty-four convitts. The convi&s have fix pence a day each. Twelve of them were fent from the high gaol at Exeter, Dec. 21, 1782.

BRIDEWELL.

No confiderable alteration. At my late vifits all the prifoners were employed in picking oakum. The allowance of bread too fmall; weight, Aug. 1783, eight ounces and a half, in Oclober, nine ounces.

1779, Aug. 12, Prifoners 13.	1783,	Aug.	26,	Prifoners	38.

1782, Dec. 18,	 32.	  061.	31,	 41.

To this prifon were committed,

In the year 1776, Prifoners 983. In the year 1780, Prifoners 459.

JZ77>	  544-	1781,	 484.

1778,	 1027.	1782,	 659.

i779>	 681.

NEW PRISON CLERKENWELL.

I found the men’s fide clean.—The fines had only the prifon allowance.— The king’s evidence were put into the women’s ward, to fecure them from the refentment of the other prifoners. — Gaoler Samuel Newport. Surgeon’s falary, now £ 100.

In December 1782, I found the county debtors were on the men’s fide till their apartments in Newgate were rebuilt:* the filed in the court was enclofed; the wards were glazed and had ftoves. In the keeper’s garden there were enclofed a bath and a copper, defigned for this prifon and the bridewell, but being incommodious were not ufed.

If a fmall room (or counting-houfe) were made over one of the keeper’s door-ways, he would have a view of the men’s court, and of every perfon coming into the prifon. At my laft vifit two prifoners remained only for the fees. Allowance now one pound of bread a day.

1779, Aug. 7, Felons&c. 60. 1782, Dec. 17, Felons&c. 9. Debtors79.

--- Nov. 15,.........-45.	1783, Aug.21,.....76.

# The county debtors had the allowance of a pound of bread each; the fixty-four pounds of beef every Saturday from the flieriffs, and the donations as mentioned at Newgate.

CLERKEN-

Digitized by

Google

London

74

APPENDIX.

London.

CLERKENWELL BRIDEWELL.

A small clofe room is ufed as an infirmary for the men: in Dec. 1782, five were fick and one dying, with little or no covering. Two of the night-rooms are made into one for an infirmary for the women, in which in 1782, there were twelve lying in their clothes on the barrack-bedftead and floor, without any bedding.

This prifon was clean, but it is much too fmall for the number of prifoners. All the rooms are too clofe: no thorough air. If the ground let for a work-houfe were taken in, it might be made convenient.—Of the one hundred and feventy-one prifoners in 1779, twenty-two men and boys, and fifty-eight women were convidts. Thefe were employed in picking oakdm, the women in two rooms below, the men up flairs. A warehoufe and a ihed for drying have been eredted on fome ground at the back of this prifon. Allowance, now one pound of bread a day. The convidts here are allowed three pence a day. Of the one hundred and fifty-five at my vifit in Dec. 1782, one hundred and three wefe fines: all were unemployed. At my laft vifit twenty men and fifty women were convidts, and employed in picking oakum. There were fix debtors from the court of requefts.* The juftices have reduced the fees from feven fhillings to the former fum (five {hillings and fix pence). The adt for preferving the health of prifoners is here and at the new on a printed paper.

1779, Aug. 13, Prifoners 171.	1783, Jan. 5, Prifoners 152.

1782, April 21, --- 168.	-- Aug. 2r, ------ 191.

... Dec. 17, ------ 155.

WHITECHAPEL PRISON.

I was informed in 1779 that not a tenth part of the ufual bufinefs has been tranfadted here fince the adt for extending the Provifions of an Ally to prevent frivolous and vexatious Arrefisj 19th Geo. III. Cap. LXX.—In 1782 the prifon was in a ruinous condition, yet fometimes here is one or two prifoners.

Bv a late adt, 21ft Geo. III. intitled “ An adt for diminilhing the fees “ payable, and altering the mode of proceeding in the court of record, “ within the manors of Stepney and	,	&c.” imprifonment is fixed

“ for a time not exceeding one week for every pound of the total of the debt,

• An unhappy debtor may be an honed man ; but, “ Evil communications corrupt good	.”

ft and

Digitized by

Google

LONDON.

l75

“ and cofts. ” By this no prifoner can be confined here, more than five or fix weeks. Debtors from the court of confcience for fums under forty (hillings are fent to Clerkenwell bridewell.

1779, Aug. 11, Prifoners 5.	1783,	Aug.	25,	Prifoners	o.

1782, April 10,	  o.	  Oft.	16,	  o.

---- Dec.	13,	  o.

TOWER HAMLETS	GAOL.

In a ruinous condition.

1779,	Aug.	10,	Prifoners	o.

1782,	Dec.	13,	-	-	-	o.

1783,	Aug.	25,	-	-	-	o.

St. CATHARINE’S GAOL.

•

1779, Aug, 11, I found the houfe inhabited, but no prifoners.

1782, Dec. 13, no prifoners, and I was informed there had been none fince my former vifit. In Aug. 1783, it was uninhabited.

t

THE SAVOY.

In Auguft 1779 the prifoners were in health j the rooms made fomewhat more airy and white-waflied, and three were fitted up for an infirmary.

In December 1782 the prifon was not dirty, nor the rooms ofFenfive except in the infirmary. Keeper, Captain Ojborne.

1779, Aug. 13, Prifoners 98.

64 Deferters, 21 Imprefled Men, 13 of the Guards.

1782, Dec. 20, Prifoners 92.

Aug. 29, 1783, there were fifty-fix prifoners: fourteen were of the guards, of whom ten were in the black-hole on bread and water for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Some of the others, having received his majefty’s pardon on condition of inlifting, after which they had deferted, had been here from feven to fixteen months.—The rooms were very clean, they are waftied every day. There had been none fick in the hofpital for two months. Allowance four pence a day.

T O T H I LL-F I E LD S BRIDEWELL.

This prifon clean and quiet, as ufual. There is a work-lhop with hemp-blocks, and a room over it. Two of the women’s night-rooms are appropriated

Digitized by

Google

London.

i76	APPENDIX.

West- priated to female convifls, who have alfo a feparate court, with water, &c. minster. 'phg Women’s court is alfo enlarged, the garden-pales being fet farther off.— As I have feen feveral fick obje&s on the floors, the gentlemen, who are fo readyto relieve the fufferings of their fellow-creatures, will forgive the intimation that an infirmary might be made over the women’s ward.—Surgeon, now Mr. Purdue.—No licence.—At my vifit in 1779, there were three debtors from the court of requefts, and fix in 17 83.

1779, Aug. 5, Priloners 74. Impreffed Men 10.

1782,	Dec. 18,	---72.	1783,	Aug.	22,	Prifoners	92.

1783,	Aug. 20,	-	-	-	-	89.	  061.	29,	 52.

WESTMINSTER GATE-HOUSE.

This prifon being taken down, another is eredled in	,	adjoining

the Bridewell, but was not inhabited, Aug. 5, 1779: and Aug. 22, 1783, there had been no prifoners. There is to be a proper feparation of debtors and felons j and in the court of the latter are four fmall rooms for the refraftory. The pulpit is contrived to have both debtors and felons in view, though they will not,be in fight of each other. The keeper from thence can eafily overlook them when they are locked up.—The court-yards will be plentifully fupplied with water, by pipes from the	The	outer	walls

are too low, fo that tools, &c. may be eafily conveyed over.

SOUTHWARK.

Southwark.	THE	K	I	N	G’s	BENCH	PRISON.

Some of the old buildings were taken down, and a chapel and many rooms were added to the new buildings, and another wing fimilar to that tfhich has been already mentioned, but no infirmary.—This fpacious prifon was enclofed with a ftrong wall about thirty feet high, with a chevaux de frife.

Two excellent rules were hung up and enforced.

Farther Rules and Orders, See.

Monday next after three weeks from the day of the Holy Trinity in the 19th year of

King George the III. -

King’s Bench Prifon. Upon full and mature confideration had here in court, It is ordered by the faid court that any man may lawfully be turned out of his chamber for the following

caufes

Digitized by

Google

SOUTHWARK.



caufes (that is to fay) if fuch pcrfon lets his chamber to another, or does not refide there himfelf, or if fuch perfon might have taken the benefit of any infolvent aft or the lords aft; or if he be charged by a friendly or collufive aftion where there is no real debt.

By the Court.

Friday next after fifteen days from the day of the Holy Trinity in the 19th year of King

George the III.

King's Bench Prifon. It is ordered that all prifoners who have been or {hall be in the cuftody of the marfhal of the Marjhalfea for the fpace of fix months after they are fuper-fedeable although not fuperfeded {hall be forthwith difeharged out of the prifon of themarfhal of the Marjhalfea by the faid marfhal as to all fuch aftions in which they have been or (hall be fuperfedeable. And that no prifoner (hall be entitled to any room in the faid prifon by reafon of feniority except from the time of his being charged in the aftions in which he is not fuperfedeable.	By	the	CoURT>

The above was the account of the prifon before it was burnt by the rioters in 1780; and now it is rebuilt on the plan of the former new buildings. No infirmary. Many good regulations are introduced, and a flop is put in a great meafure to gaming and the illicit practice of felling fpirituous liquors and fmuggled goods.

I procured a lift of gifts and donations belonging to the prifoners on the common-ftde of the King’s Bench prifon.

1779,	Aug. ii.	Debtors

-----	Oft. '26,	-	-	-

1782,	Jan. 2,	-	-	-

-----	Dec. 28,	-	-	-

1783,	Aug. 23,	-	-	-

In the Houfe.	In	the	Rules.*

5n.	-	75
438.	-	60,
450.	-	7<
485.	-	30.
53*-	-	50,

Wednefday next after three weeks from the day of the Holy Trinity, in the 21ft year

of King George the III.

King's Bench Prifon. It is ordered by this court, that the marfhal of the Marjhalfea of this court {hall permit no perfons to enter into the prifon without their being firft fearched, to fee whether they have any fpirituous liquors about them: and that he do not

• The rules, or bounds belonging to this pfifon are extenfive, including St. George9 s Fields, one fide of Blactman-Jlreet, and part of the Borough Higb-Jlreet, of which a plan is publiftied.

A a	fuffer

Digitized by

Google

Southwark

i78

Southwark.

APPENDIX.

Aiffer the wives or children of any of the prifoners to lodge in the prifon, under any pretence whatfoever, and that the marfhal do prefcribe in what manner, and for how long time, vifitors fhall be allowed to fee or flay with the prifoners, according to the circumftances of every cafe in his diferetion.	By	tfae	CouRT>

A Lift of Gifts and Donations belonging to the poor Prifoners on the Common Side of the

King’s Bench Prifon.

County money paid quarterly by the clerk to the Chief Juflice of the Court of King’s Bench at fifteen pounds per quarter -The gift of Sir 'Thomas Grejham paid by the Chamberlain of London at two pounds ten (hillings per quarter -Lady Bertie at lady-day yearly (deducing land-tax)

Mr. John March one pound, and the interell of old South Sea annuities twelve and five pence, paid at michaelmas yearly by the mercers company	------

Mrs. Smith paid at Chriflmas yearly by the fifhmongers company Mrs. Joan Hackctt paid ditto by ditto.	-

Arthur Moufe9 Efq. paid ditto by ditto*	...

The parifh of St. Sepulchre London yearly at Chriflmas

The gift of Sir John Peachy, paid at Chriflmas yearly by the grocers company Mr. Garrett, paid at Chriflmas yearly by the falters company Mr. Horne, paid at ditto by ditto

Robert Rampjlon, Efq. called brafs money paid yearly at Chriflmas (dedudling land-tax) -Lady OJhorne, payable quarterly at ten (hillings per quarter Lady Ramfay, one hundred pounds weight of beef fent yearly at Chriflmas by the parifhes of Allhallows lombard- flreet and St. Andrew's TJnderJhaft alternately.

Mrs. Margaret Deane nine flone and an half of good beef and five dozen of bread fent yearly on 5th of Nov. by the ironmongers company.

Mrs. Margaret Sinclear fixty-five penny loaves fent every eight weeks.

The leatherfellers company in bread two (hillings and eight-pence, and cafh fome^ times four (hillings, fometimes eight (hillings quarterly.

The parifh of St. Dunjlanin the Eafl a foie quarter of bee'f weight twenty-feven flone fix pounds and a peck of oatmeal annually at midfummer.

The company of parifh clerks annually on the ifl of November The company of drapers fixty penny loaves annually in December The company of cutlers annually in December the gift of Mr. Craythorne The gift of Tho. Dawfon, Efq. paid annually by the parifh of St. Ethelburg London His Grace the Archbifhop of Canterbury ufually gives at Chriflmas The fadlers company a free donation of two fhvJlings and fix pence per quarter The city of Norwich annually	-

	s.	D.
60	0	0
IO	0	0
2	0	0
I	12	S
O	3	4
O	*3	4
O	3	4
O	10	0
O	5	0
O	6	8
O	5	0
I	0	0
2	0	0

x

5

15

9 o-

10 1

MARSHAL-

Digitized by v^ooQle

SOUTHWARK.

179

MARSHALSEA PRISON.

No alteration. Here the chambers want regulation : for in feveral rooms where four lie in two beds, and in fome dark rooms where two lie in one bed, each pays 3 s.6d. a week for his lodging.—Since the adt of the 19th of Geo. III. Cap. LXX. there are not fo many debtors in this prifon as formerly j yet here and in fome other gaols the original debts of feveral of the prifoners were much under ,£10, but the exorbitant expences .of profecution have been too often added for the purpofe of imprifoning the debtors.

I procured a lift of the legacies and donations which are regularly paid, but no table was hung up.

1779, Aug. 10, Prifoners 92.	1782, Dec. 19, Prifoners 49.

1782, Jan. 2, - - - 48.	1783, Aug. 23, -	-	- 71.

A Lift of Charities belonging to the Common Side of the	Prifon.

County Money £15 per Quarter.

Leatherfellers company, bread and money quarterly, 6s. 8 d.

Sir Thomas Grejham's legacy, £10 per annum, paid quarterly by the chamberlain of London. Drapers company the legacy of Mr. John Stokes, fixty penny loaves on the 5th of December. The gift of the late Chief Baron Smyth, fifteen done of beef at Chridmas, and continued by Lady Smyth.

Mr. John Marks's annuity, the intered of £21 : 18 : 10, South Sea dock.

Mr. Ralph Carter's legacy, ninety-fix pounds of beef at Chridmas: paid one year by the church-wardens of Allhallows, and the other by St. Andrews XJnderJhaft.

Ironmongers company fend nine done and two pounds of beef, and five dozen of bread on the 5th of November, the annual gift of Mrs. Deane, deceafed.

Mr. John Gaythorn's legacy, 15 s. paid by the company of cutlers at Chridmas.

Mr. Thomas Dawfon's legacy, 9 s. paid by the church-wardens of St. Ethelburg, Bijhop/gate, at Chridmas.

Mr. Robert Ramfton's legacy, 20s. at Chridmas.

Archbilhop of Canterbury fends yearly at Chridmas £\.

Mr. Kelfall -fends a chaldron of coals yearly at Chridmas.

Mrs. Smith's legacy, 3 s. 4d. paid by the fiflimongers company yearly at Chridmas.

Salters company fend yearly 6s. 8 d.

Mr. Thomas Carter's legacy, a quarter of beef and a peck of oatmeal at Lady-day, paid by the church-wardens of St. Dunjlan's in the Ead.

Eleanor Gwin's legacy, fixty-five penny loaves every two months.	.	.

William Roper, Efqr’s legacy, £1 per annum, paid by the company of parilh clerks.

Mr. Jacobs's legacy £2 at Eajler, paid.at the Grainge inn, Lincoln's Inn back-gate, left in 1609.

A a 2	BOROUGH

Digitized by

Dgle

Southwark.

1

i8o

APPENDIX.

Southwark.

Hertford-

shire.

BOROUGH COMPTER.

This gaol was pulled down by the rioters in 1780, and the prefent prifon is an adjoining houfe hired by the keeper. The court only fourteen feet and a half by eleven. A day-room below (feventeen feet by twelve) -ftone floor. The men’s lodging-room (fixteen feet by fourteen) on the fecond floor, in which at my laft vifit there were feventeen, and fometimes there have been two or three and twenty. The women lodge in the common day-room. No bedding. Three or four rooms for thofe that pay. Debtors here (as in the county gaol. King's Bench, the Fleet, and Marjhalfea) have a gift of twenty fhillings every Cbriftmas from the archbifliop of Canterbury. Allowance a penny loaf a day each, weight Aug. 1779, twelve ounces; Dec. 1782, eight ounces; Aug. 1783, nine ounces and a half.—The	fociety

releafe many debtors from this prifon.

Debtors. Felons &c.	Debtors. Felons &c.

1779, Aug. IO-	16.	-	2.	1782,	Dec.	15,	15.	-	3.

1782, Jan. 2,	14.	-	4.	1783,	Aug.	25,	25.	-	2.

HERTFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HERTFORD.

The new goal has feparate wards and courts for debtors, men-felons and women-felons ; and the whole is now furrounded by a wall fifteen feet high ; which being at a diftance from the buildings, the keeper has within it a convenient garden.—The felons looked healthy and well, which I am perfuaded was owing to the gaoler’s not crowding them into a few rooms.—Ah obvious defeCt or two in this new gaol I will juft mention, that architects employed in fuch buildings may not imitate them. The rooms are not vaulted; the corridor is too narrow, but four feet wide ; and the pillars not being of ftone or circular, make the rooms dark and clofe. The door-ways are only one foot ten inches wide, fo that no crib bedfteads can be introduced.

The

Digitized by

Google

Home Circuit.

HERTFORDSHIRE.

x S i

The two rooms appropriated to the fick are too fmall. The chapel clofe. No bath.

In mentioning the gaol fever I fhould have added, I was well informed that a prifoner in the old gaol brought out as dead, from one of the dungeons, on being wajhed under the pump, fhewed figns of life, and foon after recovered. Since this I have known other inftances of the fame kind.

1779,	Sept.	27,	Debtors 1.	Felons &c.	17.	Deferter 1.

1782,	April	9,	 10.	--------- 9.

1783,	Oft.	23,	 9.	......... 21.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

HERTFORD. No alteration. No employment. 1779, Sep. 27, one prifoner.

1782,	April 9, three petty offenders and one debtor.

1783,	Od. 23, feven prifoners.

HITCH IN. No alteration. No employment. No allowance.

I779>	21,	Prifoners,	o.

1782, April 9, --------- 1.

---- Dec. 2,	  3.

BERKHAMSTEAD. No alteration. 1779, April 23, Prifoner 1.

1782, oa. 31,---o.

BUNTINGFORD. Two rooms; one for men, nineteen feet by eight; the other a new one for women, thirteen feet by ten. No water, no fire-place, offenfive fewer, no court; the keeper has a large garden. Salary £9:1: 4.

1779, Sept. 27, Prifoner 1.	1782,	May	6, Prifoner 1.

St. ALBANS BOROUGH GAOL.

No alteration. The debtors from the court of requefts are confined here with felons. Though the aa of 25th Geo. II. clears them in forty-two days, yet as it does not fpecify the gaoler’s fees, (and here is no table) they muff continue in prifon till they can pay whatever the keeper demands. He pays rent to the corporation for this prifon.

1779, April 24, Debtors o.	Felons &c. o.	Deferter 1.

1782, May 7, -----1.	 1.

LIBERTY

Hertford-

shire.

Digitized by ^.ooQie

i82

APPENDIX.

Hertford-	LIBERTY	GAOL.

SHIRE.

No alteration.

1779, April 24, Debtors o.	Felons &c. 1.	Deferters 2.

1782, May 7, ----o.	  o.

BRIDEWELL at	St. ALBANS,

For the Liberty and Borough.

No alteration. In the work-room were two foldiers, and a girl who was fentenced for a year’s imprifonment, locked up all the day together j and at my laft vifit, a girl and a boy were confined in the fame room.

1779, April 24, Prifoners 3.	1782,	May	7,	Prifoners 2.

ESSEX.

Essex.	COUNTY	GAOL	at	CHELMSFORD.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Morgan. Salary now ^50.

The new prifon was occupied at the time of my vifit in 1779. The debtors rooms are feventeen .feet, ten inches by fifteen feet three, and nine feet ten high. At one end of their court is a work-room thirty-feven feet and a half by fourteen and a half, and twelve feet five inches high, with a fire-place and four large windows : here many were weaving garters. Over this is their free ward. At the other end of the court is their hall or kitchen, in which claufes againfc fpirituous liquors painted on a board were hung up, and the memorial of Mrs. Herris’s legacy, and a new table of fees. The felons rooms (fifteen feet nine inches by fourteen and a half) are lofty, lined with ftone and vaulted. Near their court, there are rooms and a fmall court for the condemned. The women-felons are feparated ; they have two rooms, a court and a pump. The courts are paved with flat ftone. There is a chapel. Only one clofe room for an infirmary, which, being unfurnifhed, has never been ufed, though at my laft vifit feveral were fick on the floors. No bath. The felons apartments are entirely out of fight

from

Digitized by ^.ooQie

Home Circuit..	ESSEX.

from the gaoler’s houfe; I beg leave to obferve, that a window might be made in his kitchen, which would overlook the felons court. The window in the debtors apartment toward the flreet was highly improper, as an avenue for introducing at all times fpirituous liquors, tools, &c. but it is	now flopped up. The ftraw in the felons rooms (as alfo in the bridewell)

is on the floors. Such cribs or cradles as are in the hofpital at Plymouth, would be much more conducive to cleanlinefs and health. The afl for preferving the health of prifoners is not hung up : and this gaol has not been white-wafhed lince it was firft occupied; a fault too common in new gaols.— The felons are too much crowded at night when fome of their rooms are empty.

The new table of fees dated the 5th of Oftober 18th of Geo. III. and figned by Thomas Cowper, James Raymond, and Richard Hunt, Efqrs. and at the Lent aflize 1780 at Chelmsford, approved by judge Gould, is the fame as the old table; only there is added, (CFor every felon prifoner, difcharged by proclamation, to be paid by the treafurer of the county, £0 : ij : 4.”

1779, April 7>	Debtors 34.	Felons &c.' 7.
1782, July 12,	- - 28.	- - - 19.
1783, oa. 27,	- 21.	- - - 25.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

CHELMSFORD. No alteration. The county has the profits of the prifoners work, which is fpinning wool. At my laft vifit there were feveral fick and dirty objecls on the floor, with little or no covering. No bath.* Neither here, nor at the gaol, are there proper drains or fewers.

1779, April 7, Prifoners 27.

1782, July 12,	-	-	28.

1783, Oft. 27,	-	-	31.

COLCHESTER Castle. No alteration. I have remarked that there is no water. A well of fine water at the caftle was lately arched over.

1779, April 7, Prifoner 1.	1782,	July	11,	Prifoners 3.

COL-

Digitized by

Google

183

Essex.

184

APPENDIX.

Essex.

COLCHESTER TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL. -

No alteration, but two rooms added to the bridewell.

1779, April 7, Debtors o.	Felons &c. 4.

1782, July 11, ....... i.	.--5-

NEWPORT. No alteration, but the keeper’s falary now £32. Allowance now two pounds of bread each. No infirmary : no bath.

Sept.	26,	Prifoners 9.
May	5>		IO.
July	12,		*5-

HALSTEAD. The houfe was rented of the truftees of Kiartin's charity. The prifoners were employed in fpinning, but were not allowed any part of what they earned. This prifon was burnt down in March 1781, and four prifoners perilhed in the flames. At my laft vifit, another prifon was building on fome ground purchafed by the county.

1779, April 6, Prifoners 5. Imprefied Men 2.

1782, July 11,	 o.

BARKING. No alteration. No employment. No court: keeper has a large garden.

1779, April 8, Prifoners 1. Imprefied 5.

1782, Dec. 27,------3.

HARWICH TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms towards the ftreet j no chimneys. A back room called the dark gaol, and another with a fire-place. No court; no water j no fewer. Allowance, three halfpence a day. Gaoler’s falary, £2:8:0. Fees, 6s. 8 No table.

1778, April 18, Prifoners none.

KENT.

Digitized by

Google

Home Circuit.

KEN T.

185

COUNTY GAOL at MAIDSTONE.

No alteration, but the ftaircafe being removed, the chapel is commodious. Allowance to debtors, three chaldron of coals. Claufes of a£t againfl: Ipirituous liquors are hung up. Adt for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. No bath. Without great attention to cleanlinefs, and the reparation of the fick, here will be great danger of the gaol fever, from the offenfivenefs of the wards, and even the court of the men-felons. The felons fix night-rooms have double doors j if one of them was an iron-lattice door (as at the new gaol at Horjham) and locked in the day-time, the rooms would freflien and be better ventilated.

1779, April 16, Debtors 15. Felons 23, including 14 Convicts.

1782, Dec. 4,	-	-	24.	-	- 56.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

MAIDSTONE. No bath. The county allowance is three pence every day but Sundays, and five chaldron of coals a year. They were at work, but have no part of what they earn. Keeper’s falary now £30. Fees, 3J. Notable; but printed rule.s, orders and regulations eftablilhed under the adts of 7th Jam. I. 17th Geo. II. and 22d III. were hung up in the wards. I faw two with the fmallpox, lying on loofe ftraw, and their only covering was common mats.

1779, April 16, Prifoners 13.

1782, Dec. 4,	-	-	15.	Deferter	1.

CANTERBURY. No alteration, but a partition in the women’s court to keep them more private. An alarm bell is lately put up. This prifon is unhealthy, from the offenfivenefs of the fewers, and the prifoners lying in their clothes, as they have no bedding but mats.

1779, April 16, Prifoners 4.

1782, Dec. 5,	-	-	11.

Bb	CANTER-

Digitized by

Google

Kent.

186

APPENDIX.

Kent.

CANTERBURY CITY GAOL.

No alteration, but the day-room divided into two. No regard is paid to the claufe enjoining that " once in the year at leaft ” the gaols (hall be white-walhed.

1779, April 16, Debtors 2. Felons 2.

1782, Dec. 5,	-	1.	-	2.

CANTERBURY CITY BRIDEWELL.

A room in the front court of the work-houfe.—(This work-houfe is finely fituated, a river running between the two courts : but being an old building, the rooms clofe, and the cielings low, it cannot be convenient and falutary for the numerous inhabitants.)

1782, Dec. 5, No prifoners.

DARTFORD. Now there are two courts from the keeper’s garden, one for each fex, with pumps and fewers, and a room in the men’s court for the fick : but the women had no mats, or any fort of bedding. Three dungeons (twelve feet by five) damp and not fecure : the floors (hould be boarded. One prifoner, who had been committed for three months from July 18th, was in December ftill in confinement for the court fees, 9*. 4 d.and the keeper’s fees, 3J.	6d.—Committed in 1780, a hundred and

feven prifoners j in 1781, ninety-two j and in 1782, a hundred and three.

1779, April 15, Prifoners 5.

1782, Dec. 3,	-	-	-	5.

ROCHESTER CITY GAOL.

The court-room was built, as appears by the date, in 1687 j and it is probable, there has been no alteration in the prifon fince. The room for debtors in the keeper’s houfe, is only for fuch as can pay for a bed; for I found two in the clofe offenfive room towards the ftreet, who had been locked up there fome weeks.

1779, April 15, Debtors 2. Felons o.

1782, Dec. 3,	-	-	o.	-	- o.

ROCHES-

Digitized by

Google

Home Circuit.

KENT.

187

ROCHESTER CITY BRIDEWELL.

Two rooms down eight fteps, with barrack-bedfteads and draw. Fees, 1 Keeper’s falary, £ 2 j paid out of Mr. Watts’s charity.—This bridewell is in a houfe appointed for the reception of fix poor travellers. The defign of this charity may be feen from the following infcription placed over the door. <c Richard WattsyEfq. by his will dated 22d of Auguft, 1579, founded this “ charity, for fix poor travellers, who, not being rogues or pro&ors, may “ receive	gratis,for one night, lodging, entertainment, and four pence each.”

178a, Dec. 3, prjjfoners>

1783, June 24,

DOVER CASTLE.

Frederic Lord North is now Conjlable of the Caftlej and Philip , Bodar. The two rooms are made very offenfive by the fewers. Fees, 1 : 10:0. A court might be made from the keeper’s garden.

1779, April 17, Prifoners 3.

1782, Dec. 6,	2.

DOVER TOWN GAOL.

No alteration ; but the keeper has a falary, £10. No licence. The gaol was much cleaner and quieter j and company were not drinking there, as at my former vifits.

1779, April 17, Debtor 1. Felons &c. 1.

1782, Dec. 6,	-	-	1.	-	-	-	3.

ROMNEY GAOL.

This prifon at New Romney was built in 1750. Two rooms, one on the ground-floor, the other level with the keeper’s cellar. Behind, is the bridewell, a large room with a fire-place. Allowance to felons fix pence a day. Keeper, no falary j fees, 31-.	\d.Notable.

1782, Dec. 6, One felon.

B b 2	SAND-

Digitized by

Google

Kent.

138

APPENDIX.

Kent.

Sussex.

SANDWICH GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

A room in front; and a back room called the dungeon: above flairs, two rooms. In the court, two new rooms without fire-places. The infcription over them, “ This houfe of corre&ion was built in the year 1776, in the mayoralty “ of Jofepb Stewart, Efq. at the joint expence of the parifhes in	, the

“ parifh of IValmer, and the vills of	Ramjga and Sarr” No court: no water:

no fewer. Allowance to criminals, two twopenny loaves a day each. Keeper no falary ; fees, 13J. 4	d.

1782, Dec. 5, No prifoners.

DEAL GAOL.

A room under the court, only eight feet and a half by fix and a half, with a barrack-bedflead. Keeper, town fergeant, lives diftant. I did not wonder that a felon had made his efcape the night preceding my vifit.

1782, Dec. 5, No prifoners.

SUSSEX.

COUNTY GAOL at HORSHAM.

The new gaol does credit to the gentlemen that fuperintended the work : it is every way fubftantial and flrong; and each felon has a feparate room, ten feet by feven, and nine feet high to the crown of the arch. They are all arched with brick, to prevent danger and confufion in cafe of fire. To each room are two doors, one of them iron-latticed.

This gaol has two floors over arcades; the afcent to them is by a Hone flaircafe with iron rails. On each floor, both on the debtors and felons fide, there are ten rooms (five on each fide a pafiage five feet wide), befides a day-room (twenty-eight feet by twelve feet three inches), and a lodging-room for a turnkey. Each floor has an iron-latticed door, and every room has a fhutter for the window; a bedftead, a canvafs ftraw-bed, and two blankets: and the county is fo confiderate as to allow a bufhel of coals to the debtors, and the fame quantity to the felons, every day during the fix winter months.

Here

Digitized by

Google

Home Circuit.

SUSSEX.

189

Here are two fpacious courts with water in each ; and a wall enclofes the whole prifon.

The felons on their entrance are walhed with warm water, and each man is clothed in a green ftriped uniform of coat, waiftcoat and breeches; and has two fhirts, two pair of ftockings, a pair of Ihoes, a hat, and woollen cap.

The county has, very prudently fettled the number of turnkeys, (viz. three) ; to each they pay half a guinea a week ; one of them goes twice a day to purchafe provifions and liquors for debtors; and it is properly fixed that they fhall not exceed one pint of wine, or one quart of ftrong beer a day each. Felons have only water for their drink. The juftices have fent in fcales and weights, which is a check on the baker. The felons allowance is now a two-pound loaf, and there was full weight of feveral which I faw weighed.

The claufes againft fpirituous liquors are hung up; and the gaol is kept very clean. The a£l for preferving the health of prifoners is not hung up. I would juft obferve, that the gaoler fliould have a window in his kitchen towards the debtors court, and in his parlour towards that of the felons.

The gaoler’s falary now is £100. Chaplain, the Rev. Mr. Jame/on: lalary, £50. Sermon once a week, prayers every day.

This county has fet a noble example of abolilhing all fees, and alfo the tap : in confequence of this, I found the gaol as quiet as a private houfe.

1779, March 9, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 6. in the old gaol.

1782, Nov. 8,	-	-	16.	-	-	-	7.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

At Horsham the Bridewell was difeontinued, and the keeper difeharged.

* LEWES. No alteration. The apartments for each fex fimilar, butfeparate; a kitchen, five bed-rooms ten feet fquare, work-fhop, court, &c. Though I found no prifoners at work, but as there were chalk, mallets, lieves, &c. in the men’s work-room, it feems they are fometimes employed in making whiting. The keeper has all the profits of their work. The county allowance is three halfpence in bread (weight in Dec. 1782, thirteen ounces). The keeper’s houfe is detached, fo that he has no view from thence into the rooms or courts of the prifon. Surgeon Mr. 'Turner.

l119) April 19, Prifoners 8.	1782,	Dec.	7,	Prifoners	7.

PET-

Sussex.

Digitized by ^ooQie

190

APPENDIX.

Sussex.

PET WORTH. The keeper’s falary is now augmented to £30, in lieu of fees. The bread allowance is now a two-pound loaf every day, to be weighed by the keeper, with fcales and a weight ordered to the houfe for that purpofe by the juftices. No alteration in the houfe.—I have the pleafure to hear that this prifon is foon to be difcontinued.

*779> March 8, ^t0 prifoners.

1782, Nov. 7.

CHICHESTER CITY GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

The alteration is a pump in the court, and the keeper’s falary now ^15.

1779, March 8, prifoners.

1782, Nov. 7,

BATTEL. Two rooms fourteen feet by twelve and a half, in one of which is a chimney, in the other the flocks. Court-yard not fecure. No water, but in the keeper’s garden. Allowance, feven farthings a day j the fame, the old keeper faid, in the thirty years of his time, and in the many years of his father’s time. Salary £10. Fees, 3*.

.779, April .8. Noprifoners.

1782, Dec. 7,

RYE. The town gaol is an old tower, called	fort.	The	lower	rooms

are, one about feventeen feet diameter, with a fire-place, and two about fix feet j above flairs are three rooms of the fame dimenfions. Allowance to prifoners, three halfpence a day. Fees, jj. 4 No table. Salary, none. Keeper, a fergeant at mace.

j779j April 18, ^rQ prifoners.

1782, Dec. 6,

E A S T-G R I N S T E A D PRISON.*

Under the court, a room fix feet eight inches fquare, and five feet eight inches high. The conftable is keeper.

1782, Dec. 8, No prifoners.

* During the Lent-aflize, the prifoners are confined in a garret at the George ale-houfe.

SURREY.

Digitized by

Google

Home Circuit.

SURREY.

COUNTY GAOL in SOUTHWARK.

A chapel and two clofe rooms for the fick, were lately built on the vacant ground where formerly was the houfe of correction, but after the riots in 1780, were ufed for a bridewell, till that in George's Fields was rebuilt. At my laft vilit the chapel was fitted up, and the two finals rooms for an infirmary; thefe are on the ground-floor, only one window in each. Many were fick on the dirty floors: one of the turnkeys had lately died of a fever. Of the fifty-five felons &c. in Oft. 1783; I have the names and the fentences of twenty-five convi5ls> who are left languilhing in this fickly gaol.

The felons courts lhould be paved with flat ftones, not only for the convenience of walhing, but for fafety, as pebbles are dangerous. In the men’s court there fhould be a pump, and a convenient bath: at feveral of my vifits the Thames water was off.—Bread allowance, weight Aug. 1779, feventeen ounces; Dec. 1782, thirteen ounces; Sept. 1783, thirteen ounces and a half.—Surgeons now, Stapleton and	Walj

Here I would juft mention, that all the rags left by the felons after every afiize, ought to be immediately burned, or rather buried; as they only ferve to harbour vermin, dirt, and infeftion. •

	Debtors. Felons &c.		Debtors.	Felons &c.
1779, Aug. 9,	23- -	14.	1783, Sept. 14, 26.	53-
1782, Jan. 2,	32. -	39-		 Oft. 29, 27.	55*
	 Dec. 15,	23- -	42.		
p  b	U N T Y	B R	I D E W E L L S.	
GEORGE’S	FIELDS.	The	fines or convifts are with	the other

prifoners, and have the fame allowance. All are entirely without employment.*—This prifon was burnt by the rioters in 1780, and (as appears by the infcription in front) rebuilt in 1781. It is nearly on the fame plan: in the men’s court there are now added four rooms, planked round.

• I obferved in Clerkennuell bridewell, the convifts were employed in picking oakum, as I have feen in fome houfes of correction near the fea Ihore. This is a falutary employment, as the llrong fcent of the pitch and tar may counteract any contagious or unhealthy effluvia in the work-rooms.—-If the great quantities of old cables and ropes piled up at the TVzvrr were delivered out to the feveral keepers of bridewells in and about	to	be

wrought for ufe, and prompt payment made for the work; this, would prevent the excufes of keepers for not employing their prifoners.

(nine

Digitized by

Google

19‘

Surrey.

I $2

Surrey.

APPENDIX.

(nine feet eight inches by five and a half, and feven feet four inches high,) very proper for the feparation of the drunken and riotous. In each of the work-rooms (Jo called) there is a chimney. There are now two rooms for faulty*apprentices. No bath.—Bread allowance, weight Dec. 1782, thirteen ounces; Aug. 1783, fourteen ounces; and Oct. 29, fourteen ounces and a half. . Keeper now no licence. The claufes againft fpirituous liquors, act for preferving the health of prifoners, and the table of fees, not hung up. At my late vifits the prifon very dirty, and the prifoners (till without employment. At night they are crowded into one or two rooms, as all the upper rooms are kept for the few that can pay for beds. I releafed a young man for his fees (4 s.id.)

1779, Aug. 9, Prifoners 44.	1783,	Aug. 22, Prifoners 32.

1782, Dec. 16,	- -	-	17.	---- 0«5t. 29, -	-	-	37.

KINGSTON upon Thames. The prifon was dirty, and the prifoners unemployed ; the keeper informing me, that they were not committed for hard labour, though one was imprifoned for a year. No bath. The three halfpenny loaf in 1779 weighed feventeen ounces and a quarter; in 1782, twelve ounces ; and in 1783, fourteen ounces. The adl for preferving the health of prifoners was hung up; at the bottom of the board was alfo painted, “ N. B. The fees for each perfon are 3J. 4

As the county allows no firing, bedding or bedfteads, many were lying fick on the floors. One woman was in a bed on the men’s fide, and two women in the room for faulty apprentices, but they pay for this privilege. There is a door from the men’s court into that of the women’s, and one of the men keeps the key, and can let iny of the prifoners into the women’s apartments.

As. I had been the preceding morning at Horjham gaol, where proper humanity is ftiewn even to felons; I was the more ftruck at feeing the wretched condition of thefe prifoners.—The furgeon’s falary is ^10 : 10:0, of which ^5 : 5 : o. is for travelling charges, to report at the quarter ' feflions the flate of the prifoners.

«

1779, March n, Prifoners 6.

1782,	Nov.	9,	-	-	17.	Deferter 1.

1783,	061.	21,	-	-	42.

KINGSTON

Digitized by

Google

Home Circuit.

SURREY, &c.

«93

KINGSTON TOWN GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, March n. Debtors 3.

1782,	Nov. 9,	-	4.

1783,	Oft. 21,	-	-	o.

GUILDFORD BRIDEWELL.

Three new rooms up ftairs were lately added, and the neceflary fewers. There is only one day-room (ten feet three inches by feven feet). The act for preferving the health of prifoners painted on a board was hung confpicuoufly up in the court. None were at work.

\

1779, March 9, Prifoners 3.

1782, Nov. 8, -	-	-	3.	Deferter	1.

NORFOLK CIRCUIT. BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at AYLESBURY.

No alteration. A lady at JVeJlon left an annuity of 13J. 4 which is paid by the church-wardens of Aylejlury> and diftributed among debtors and felons. Two men, fentenced for three years, had continued here two years and a half; one of them was much emaciated by confinement without work.

A table of fees is now painted on a board and hung up in the debtors hall, but not confirmed by a judge.

1779, Feb. 25, Debtors 6. Felons &c. 12.

1782, April 29, -	- 20.	- - -	6.	Deferters 2.

C c	A Lift

Surrey.

Buckingham-

shire.

Digitized by v^ooQie

194

APPENDIX.

Buckingham-

shire.

A List of Fees allowed to be taken by the keeper of his majefty’s gaol at Aylejbury in and for the county of Bucks, examined, fettled—by the Hon. Sir William Stanhope, Knight of the Bath, Richard Lowndes and John Rivett, Efqrs. three of his Majefty’s juftices of the peace for the faid county of Bucks—at their general quarter feftion of the peace at Aylejbury, on the 21ft day of April, in the 21ft year of the reign of George the fecond—and in the year 1748.

From debtors on their difcharge for the firft warrant on mefn procefs, execution or otherwife the fum of	-

For every warrant he is charged with afterwards the fum of To the fheriff for his liberty the fum of	-	-	-

To the turnkey	-

From felons at the affizes the fum of	-

To the turnkey	------

At the quarter feffions or otherwife the fum of -

To the turnkey	------

Chamber rent if the debtor is furnilhed with bedding per week the fum of If he finds his own bedding unlefs he lie iu the common-room the fum of Searching the files for any warrant -For a copy thereof	-

For every declaration or other pleadings whatfoever to be paid by the plaintiff or his agent.

On delivery to the turnkey the fum of	-

£■	S.	
O	l3	4
O	S	0
O	2	6
O	2	6
O	*5	0
0	2	6
O	13	0
O	2	6
O	2	6
O	1	6
O	0	6
0	0	6
0	1	0

1781. Michaelmas Seflion. Allowed in Court.

Verney.

By the Court.

William Hayton Clerk of the Peace for the County of Bucks.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

AYLESBURY. No alteration. 1779*, Feb. 25, Prifoners 3.

1782, April 29,	-	-	-	2.

NEWPORT* PAGNEL. Two cells in the back court of a public houfe, feven feet by fix and a half, and fix feet high. The apertures in the doors ten inches by nine. No water: no allowance: no employment. The keeper lives diftant. Salary, £20.	He pays rent two guineas. The

prifoners mufl be almoft fuffocated in hot weather as the doors now open under a penthoufe. A deferter lately went out who had been confined

here

Digitized by

Google

Norfolk Circuit.

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

here a fortnight. From Jan. 1780 to Jan. 1781, here were twenty-nine prifoners j from Jan. 4, 178a to July 2, here were thirty-three, deferters included.

1779, March 24,	Prifoners	o.

---- Oft.	13,	-	-	o. One or two had lately efcaped.

1782, July	15,	-	-	o.

---- Nov.	28,	o.

WEST-WYCOMB. This prifon was lately removed from	,

and the keeper was difmified at the Michaelmas fefiions 1778, for inattention. It confifted of two garrets in the keeper’s houfe. The windows were almoft clofed up by ftrong planks nailed acrofs for fecurity. His falary, '^20.—-This prifon is again removed to High-Wycomb: it confifts of two fmall rooms in the back court of the keeper’s public houfe, about feven feet by three, and fix feet high : apertures in the doors : a court about ten feet by fix. No water. Prifoners are here committed to hard, labour.

.779, April 23, Nq pr;foners

1782, June 25,

BUCKINGHAM TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms below, one of which is the bridewell j the other for felons fixteen feet and a half by twelve. Over thefe are two rooms for debtors. No water. Gaoler no falary. Keeper’s falary,

Over the gate on a board is this infcription :

'	“ The right honourable Richard Grenville 'temple lord vifcount Cobham

<c caufed this edifice to be erefted at his own expenfe for the ufe of this town “ and county : The fummer aflizes being reftored to this place and fixed here <( by aft of parliament in the year 1748.”

1779, Oft. 14, No prifoners but a raving lunatic.

'	1782, April 30, No prifoners.

C c 2	BEDFORD.

*95

Buckingham-

shire.

Digitized by v^ooQie

19 6

APPENDIX.

Bedford-

shire.

BEDFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at BEDFORD.

No alteration. The prifon very clean. I obferved that the juflices allow in winter, coals both to felons and debtors.* At my laft vilit there was a table of fees painted on a board.

1779, Oft. 16, Debtors 7. Felons &c. 2. Deferters 2.

1782,	July 17,	-	-	7-	-	-	-	3-

1783,	Sep. 7,	-	-	8.	-	-	-	9-

County of Bedford. At the general quarter feflions of the peace holden at the town of Bedford, in and for the faid county of Bedford; on Wednefday in the week next after the feaft of St. Michael the archangel, that is to fay, the third day of Oftober in the twenty-firft year of the reign of our fovereign lord George the third, by the grace of God, of Great Britain France and Ireland king, defender of the faith, and fo forth, and in the year of our Lord one thoufand feven hundred and eighty-one, before Sir Philip Monoux9 baronet, William Gery9 John Nejbitty and John Miller, junior, Efquires; Hadley Cox9 Henry Hinde9 Peter Lepipre9 William Smith, and John Hawkins, Clerks, Juftices of our faid lord the king afligned to keep the peace in the faid county, and alfo to hear and determine divers felonies, trefpafles, and other mifdemeanors in the faid county committed ; the following table of fees were perufed fettled and approved of to be taken by the gaoler of the faid county of Bedford, but firft to be fubmitted to the Judges of Aifize at the next Lent affizes for their approbation.

Debtors Fees to Gaoler and his Turnkey.

For each debtor difcharged to pay the gaoler Of him for the fecond and every other adtion To the turnkey at the difcharge of every debtor To him of every fuch debtor for the fecond and every other a&ion For every debtor for each week’s lodging on the chapel fide, the gaolei flieets and blankets	-

£■	s.	D.
O	17	4
O	10	0
O	2	0
O	1	0
1,		
O	2	6

* I have mentioned the necelfity of an allowance of firing in bridewells, but perhaps have not fufficiently infilled on it in gaols. I therefore take occafion here to obferve, that this is not only what humanity demands in our climate, but that it is eflential to the prefervation of the health of prifoners, by promoting the circulation of air, and preventing thofe mortifications of the feet to which they are fo liable. I well know, that the want of firing joined to fcanty provifion has been the caufe of great mortality in our prifons during the winter.

If

Digitized by

Google

Norfolk Circuit.

BEDFORDSHIRE.

197

If two lye together in the fame bed to take of each	-	-	-02

Of every debtor for chamber rent finding his own bedding and (heets, per week o 1 For a copy of every warrant of detainer	-	-	-	-02

For a certificate for want of a declaration in order to take a writ of fuperfedeas o 2 For a certificate in order to fue for a habeas corpus	-	-	-02

For the entering every declaration delivered to the debtors in cuftody	-	01

To the under-lheriff for his liberatur to gaoler for the difcharge of a debtor for

each attion	-	-	-	-	-	-	0.6

Felons Fees to Gaoler and his Turnkey.

To the gaoler for every prifoner fcntenced to be burned in the hand fined or im-

prifoned when discharged to pay	-	-	-	-	017

And to the turnkey for each	-	-	-	-	-02

To the gaoler for the difcharge of every perfon committed for want of fureties of

the peace, mifdemeanor or any other crime not being felony	-	017

And to the turnkey for each	-	-	-	-	-02

For a copy of every commitment if demanded	-	-	-02

For a certificate of commitment in order to fue out a habeas corpus	-	02

For attending in the town of Bedford with every prifoner in order to give bail or be

otherways discharged	-	-	-	-	-02

For the difcharge of every prifoner committed for felony or on fufpicion thereof and no bill of indi&ment found, or discharged on his or her trial, or delivered by proclamation, to be paid out of the county rates	-	-	013

John Nejbitt•	Approved

JVilUam Smith. '	Ja.	Eyre.

7th March 1782. Jeremy Fijh Palmer Clerk of the peace of the county of Bedford\

D. o

6

o

6

6

o

8

4

o

4

o

o

6

o

4'

Bedford-

shire.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BEDFORD.

No alteration. This prifon neat and clean. Allowance to each prifoner a quartern loaf every other day. Keeper’s falary now 20.

1779, Oft. 16, Prifoners 2.

1782, July 17,	- -	4.

BEDFORD TOWN GAOL.

A

Two new rooms with fire-places. No apartment for the gaoler : no court: no water.

1779, Oft. 16, Prifoners o.

1782, July 17,	-	-	1.

HUNTING-

Digitize . by kjoooie

198

APPENDIX.

Hunting-

donshire.

Cambridge-

shire.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HUNTINGDON.

No alteration. At the back of the prifon a hemp-drefler has a fmall houfe, and alfo a falary of	£ 11	per	annum,to find work for the prifoners in the

bridewell, in beating hemp at three pence a	Claufes	againft	fpirituous

liquors are hung up. The adt for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. Surgeon now Mr. Perkins. •

1779, Sep. 22, Debtors 11. Felons &c. 14. Deferters 4.

1782, May 4,	- - 7.	- - -	6.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, CAMBRIDGE CASTLE.

No alteration : but the rooms boarded and made more fecure.

1779, Sept. 23, Debtors 21. Felons &c. 2.

1782, Feb. 6,	-	-	15.	-	3.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at CAMBRIDGE.

There are now two work-rooms, and two lodging-rooms. Mr. the keeper is attentive and humane. The prifoners have the whole profit of their work.

1779, Sept. 23, Prifoners 7.

1782, Feb. 6,	-	-	8.

CAMBRIDGE TOWN GAOL.

No alteration : but I now give the table of fees.

1779, Sept. 23, Debtors 1. Felons &c. 2.

1782, Feb. 7,	-	- 2.	- -	o.

An

Digitized by

Google

Norfolk Circuit.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

*99

An Account of the Fees that have been anciently and cuftomarily paid to the gaoler or Cambridge-

keeper of the Tolbootb prifon in the town of Cambridge, viz.	shire.

* For every debtor	£. S. Z).

The commitment fee	-	-	-	-	-	0	68

The withdraught or difeharging fee which is paid afterwards to the Mayor at

every port	-	-	-	-	-	-	010

For the care of the prifoner and chamber per week	-	-	026

The 17 "January 1765

At the general quarter feflions of the peace held for the town of Cambridge—We the juftices—of the faid town—having reviewed the abovefaid table of fees, do allow and confirm the fame

Edward Leeds	TV TVbiJkin, Mayer	Wm Norfolk

TV H Ewen	Elias Sowjler	King TVbittred

CAMBRIDGE TOWN BRIDEWELL.

In the fpring 1779, feventeen women were confined in the day-time, and fome of them at night, in the work-room, which has no fire-place or fewer. This made it extremely offenfive, and occafioned a fever or ficknefs among them, whidi alarmed the Vice-cbancellort who ordered all of them to be dif-charged : two or three of them died within a few days. There are now added two rooms, in one of which are five cages about feven feet fquare : no fireplace.

1779, Sept. 23, Prifoners 6, and 1 Lunatic.

1782, Feb. 7,	-	-	3.

ELY GAOL.

No alteration, but the walls in the debtors court raifed.—At my laft vifit the debtors and felons were together. One of the former was confined for a debt of 3J. 5	id.the charges	amounted to 8j. 3//. Another, who had a wife

and five children, was kept in prifon only for colts, 4	9 and gaol fees,

3 s. 6 d.

1779, Sept. 23,. Debtors 7. Felon 1. and 1 Lunatic.

1782, Feb. 6,	-	-	4.	-	-	2.

ELY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, Sept. 23, Prifoners 2.	1782,	Feb.	6,	Prifoners 3.

WISBEACH

Digitized by ^mOoq ie

200

APPENDIX.

Ca mbridge-

SHIRE.

Norfolk.

WISBEACH GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, March 29, Debtors 2. Imprefled Men 3.

Oftob. 10,	-	-	1.	Felons &c.	1.

1782, Febr. 4,	-	-	1.	Deferter 1.	Lunatic	1.

NORFOLK.

COUNTY GA O L, NORWICH CASTLE.

No alteration, but guard or barrack-beds in the dungeon. Surgeon, Mr. Brown, now Mr. Rigby. Salary, £40.—At Lent-aflizc, 1779, twenty-feven prifoners, and in 1782 eighteen were carried to Thetford, and confined there four nights, mod of them in the dungeon.—Lord	, Lent	affize

1732, at Thetford laid a fine of twenty pounds on the gaoler of Norwich caftle, for putting irons on a woman. *	.

1779, March 31, Debtors 24. Felons &cc. 29.

1782, July 6,	- - 25.	- - - 23.

NORWICH CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

The prifoners bread allowance was a penny loaf, which weighed twelve ounces, but now they are allowed fourteen ounces : draw £1 : 10 : o. a year. Coals two chaldron. Claufes of aft againd fpirituous liquors are hung up.

The women have dill their low night-room, and no feparate day-room. The room adjoining, improperly ufed for a , would be very convenient.— Gaol-delivery being only once a year, three prifoners were confined from eight

* lit re I would j’uft mention the Norfolk and Norwich hofpital, built in 1771, as being one of the be ft of our county hofpitals. The wards arc lofty ; there is only one floor up flairs ; the bee Heads are iron, and they are not crowded. The beds are ftraw ; their furniture linen ; and there are no tefters to the beds. The wards arc k^pt clean by frequent walking, and airy by the opposite windows being generally open. There are Dutch lloves in the wards in fummer, and little coppers for tea-water, with which the patients .are fometimes (properly) indulged. There is a flno area cnclofed, in which the patients walk. There is no walking, brewing or baking in this houfe.

to

Digitized by

Google

Norfolk Circuit.

NORFOLK.

201

to ten months before their trial; as two were committed Nov. 6, 1778, and one woman Aug. 22, 1778. By an a£t for the city of	,	12 and 13 of

William III. court of confcience debtors are to remain without bail or mainprize, until he fhe or they perform and obey the order of the faid court; which aft is fimilar to that for London.

1779, March 31, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 5.

1782, July 6,	-	-	16.	-	-	-	5.

NORWICH CITY BRIDEWELL.

The prifoners were at work. The daily allowance is two pennyworth of bread, and two hot dinners in a week. Firing from Michaelmas to Lady-day. The fick have four pence a day, and firing when wanted. The keeper’s falary, £25. Here is no feparate court for the women. The dungeons are down fifteen fteps ; in one part four for the men; and in another part, three for the women. In thefe, as in the other rooms, are cribs. It is to be hoped that gentlemen who have made many improvements in their gaol, will be fo confiderate as to order thefe cells to be barred to all, unlefs to fuch as are very refractory and difobedient.

1779, March 31, Prifoners 7.	1782, July 6, Prifoners 4.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

SWAFFH AM. A work-room feventeen feet by fifteen, but no employment. The court enlarged; now twenty-eight feet fquare,. but the prifoners ftill ' confined to their rooms. Now licence for beer : and claufes againfl fpirituous liquors hung up. Straw, 10s. a year. Keeper’s falary, ,£16. Surgeon, Mr. Say:he makes a bill.

1779, March 29, Prifoners 11, including the Lunatic.

1782, Feb. 5,	-	-	S-

WYMUNDHAM. No alteration, but the dungeon arched with brick. It is fifteen feet and a half by eight feet, and fix feet high: a dirt floor: has two apertures at the top, of a foot diameter. The Juftices feem to have overlooked a claufe in a late a<5t of parliament, “ to prevent the

D d	prifoners

Digitized by

Google

Norfolk,

02

APPENDIX.

Norfolk.

prifoners from being kept under ground, whenever they" can do it conveniently,” as there is abundant room on the premifes.*

In the room up ftairs were four dirty, pale and fick women at work, with padlocks on their legs, though never out in the court except on Sundays. The very fmall quantity of ftraw on the floor was worn almoft to dull.

1779, March 30, Prifoners 5.	1782,	July	6, Prifoners 9.

AYLSHAM. In the floor of the work or day-room is a trap-door into a dungeon, which is nine feet and a half by fix feet. Above ftairs are three rooms not fecure. No fire-place: no ftraw: the court not fecure; prifoners in it only on Sundays: no water: no fewer: no implements for work: no allowance, but two pennyworth of bread a day to vagrants. Keeper’s falary, £13 : 6 : 8.

1779, April 1, Prifoners 4.

ACL.E. A day-room and a room over it. Down nine fteps are two dark dungeons, eight feet by five feet ten inches. This prifon is quite out of repair. The date on it is 1633. No court: no water acceflible to prifoners : no allowance: no ftraw. The keeper’s falary, £16.

1779, April 2,	1782,	July 7, No prifoners.

WALSINGHAM. A room fifteen feet by eight in the keeper’s court-yard, with two dark lodging-rooms about feven feet fquare, and ftraw on the brick floors. The walls of the court not fecure. Prifoners in irons. Claufes of aft agairift fpirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s falary, £13 : 6 : 8. Fees,	is.

1779, Oft. 10, Prifoners 2:

THETFORD TOWN GAOL.

This gaol was repaired and enlarged in the mayoralty of William Holmes, Efq.

1781. A table of fees, &c. is now hung up, but not figned.

1779, Sept. 24, Prifoner 1.	1782,	July	6,	Prifoners	o.

* Anno 14 George III. Cap. XLIII.

Table

Digitized by

Google

Norfolk Circuit.

NORFOLK.

203

Thetford.	A	Table	of	Fees	to	be	taken	in	this	Gaol.

On the coming in of a debtor, no garnifh to be paid.

If the debtor is furnifhed with a bed, to pay for it per week If two lie in one bed	-

If he finds his own bed	-

Searching file for warrant	-

For delivery of any declaration againfl a debtor or any other proceeding For copy of every warrant	-

To the gaoler’s certificate for fuperfedeas	-	-	-

On the difcharge of every debtor if on one execution or mefn procefs

If on two	-------

Turnkey	-	-	-	-

Bed per week each felon	-

If two lie in one bed	-	-	,

For difmiffion of each felon or criminal prifoner, difcharged either by a magiflrate or by the court of affize or feflion	-

£•	s.	D.
O	I	0
O	1	6
O	0	0
O	0	0
O	I	0
O	I	0
O	I	0
O	6	8
O	>3	4
O	0	0
O	0	9
O	1	6
O	0	0

Rules and Orders to be obferved.

Each felon is allowed one penny per day at the expence of the town, and each debtor the fame. A clergyman to attend the felons while under fentence of death. Debtors and felons are to wafh themfelves every day, and are to be let into the yard where a trough is fixed with frelh water for thatpurpofe. And they are to fweep and fprinkle their rooms every morning.

YARMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, April 3, Debtors 4. Felons &c. 4.

1782, July 8,	-	-	4.*	-	-	2.

Great Yarmouth. A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of this Burgh

an order of aflembly, A. D. 1671.

For the commitment releafe and difcharge of every prifoner For the garnifh of every prifoner	-	-	-

For every prifoner that will diet with the gaoler, for every meal he takes For every prifoner lodging in the Common chamber, finding his own bed for every night	------

For every prifoner lodging in the common chamber in the gaoler’s bed for every night	------

For every prifoner lodging in the private chamber finding his own bed for every night	-

purfuant to £. s. D.

008 006 o 1 o

o o 1

002

002

•By the a£t for the court of requefts; a debtor, may be carried or houfe of corre&ion.”

D d 2

i€ either to the common gaol. For

Digitized by

Google

Norfolk.

204

Norfolk.

APPENDIX.

£■

For every prifoner lodging in the private chamber in the goaler’s bed for every

night	------	o

For every freeman lodging in the free-room for every week	-	o

For going abroad with a prifoner every time	-	-	-	o

For the key turning for every prifoner being an inhabitant of this town for every

week	-	-	-	-	-	-	o

For the key turning for every other prifoner for every week	-	o

For every prifoner committed upon any adlion except adtions of debt to be payed upon his difcharge out of the prifon whereof he is to pay to the mayor if fureties be given	-	-	-	-	-	o

And in fuch cafe to the clerk of the court	-	-	o

And to the ferjeant	------	o

But if the adlion be agreed to the clerk of the court	-	-	o

For the withdrafts of the court in every adtion agreed	-	o

Except adfcions of debt for which they are to compound with Mr. Mayor or pay I/, for every 20/.

For every grand jury or petty jury keeping	-	-	o

For goods attached and brought to the town-hall the party plaintiff to pay as he can agree with the goaler.

For every perfon whipped at the feflions	-	-	o

For every one branded	-	-	-	-	-	o

For every one executed	-	-	-	-	-	o

S. D.

°	4

o 6 o 6

o 4 o 8

°	4

o 4 o 6

O 2

o 6

o 4

°	4

i o

6 8

YARMOUTH TOWN BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, April 3, Prifoners none.

1782, July 8, Debtor i. Petty offender i.

LYNN regis TOWN GAOL.

There are proper rooms for debtors, felons, and petty offenders, and three cells for the condemned. The gentlemen of the corporation have been fo compaflionate, as to order cribs in the two rooms for felons, befides ftraw and two coverlets. The gaoler’s falary is now £20.

1779, March 29, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 4.

---- O&ob. 9,	-	-	3.	-	2.

1782, Feb. 4,	-	-	4.	-	2.

COUNTY

Digitized by LjOoq le

Norfolk Circuit.

SUFFOLK.

205

COUNTY GAOL at IPSWICH.

I found this prifon clean, though full of prifoners. In the centre of the cieling of the new chapel is an aperture covered by a fmall turret, which keeps this room airy and pleafant. All prifon chapels fhould be thus fupplied with frelh air.*

Here are no alterations, but the water from the pump conveyed through the fewers, which prevents the court-yard which is fmall, from being offenfive; and there is allowance to the gaoler for conveying prifoners to Bury.—The memorial of Mr. Pemberton’s, legacy is now hung up in the chapel.

1779, April 5, Debtors 24. Felons &c. 23.

1782, July 9,	- - 27.	- -	-	10.	Deferter	1.

July 17, 1780.

At this, the annual meeting of the truftees of Mr. Pemberton’s charity, it is ordered that the treafurer fhould provide as the trullees lhall fee fit, for the debtors imprifoned in any of the jails in the county of Suffolk, either for their relief therein, by a proportion of bread, meat, and beer, as he (hall think neceflary, or for the delivering them out of prifon, untill the treafurer lhall receive further orders.—Neverthelefs, fuch debtors in Ipfivich jail, as do not regularly attend divine fervice (unlefs prevented by ficknefs, or fome reafonable caufe, to be allowed of by the chaplain,) and behave decently and reverently, lhall not have any benefit or allowance from this charity.

Trustees,

Geo. Drury. Lott Knight. Ph. B. Brooke. EdwJ. Hajell.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

IPSWICH. This prifon is greatly improved. The two work-rooms and chambers are now twenty feet by thirteen and a half. The court forty feet by thirty-four.

1779, April 5, Prifoners o. 1782, July 9, Prifoners 2.

WOODBR1DGE. This prifon is much improved. The two rooms enlarged, are twenty-eight feet by fixteen : the lower room is nine feet high :

* See Dr. Priejtley'sExperiments, &c. p. 281. His words are, “ I would advife, therefore, “ that when large rooms are built, provifion be made for letting out the vitiated air at the “ top of them.M

to

Digitized by

Google

Suffolk.

206

APPENDIX.

Suffolk.

to each arc three windows and a fire-place. *The court is enlarged, and made fecure : it is to be hoped the juftices will order a pump.

1779, April 4, Prifoner 1.	1782, July 9, Prifoners 4.

BECCLES. No alteration. No pump in the court j no feparate apartments for women, which there might be, as the keeper has a large garden. In the room called the ward, is a window to the ftreet which is highly improper, as I have feen numbers of idle perfons crowding about it.

At my vifit in 1779, the keeper {hewed me an old table of fees on parchment, which 1 here copy.

1779, April 2, Prifoners, 6 Men, 3 Women.

1782, July 8,	-	-	11.	- - 4.	-	-

The Gaoler’s Fees for the county of Suffolk agreed upon 29 of March 1676 by the

juftices of the peace underwritten.

Inprim'u for every perfon committed in court	-

Item for every perfon committed out of court	-

for every perfon committed upon warrant or procefs for every perfon committed upon execution	-

to the turnkey	------

for every perfon upon his acquittal for felony	...

for every perfon committed upon outlawry	-

for every prifoner lodging in the gaoler’s bed for every night taking no diet in the houfe	------

Taking diet	-	-	-	-	-

If he find his own bed and take diet	-

If he take no diet	-

Item for every'prifoner that is not a felon that will go into the ward and lye there for every night	-

■Item if two lye in one bed and take diet in the houfe for both

If they take no diet	-	-	-	-

For the two belt chambers in the houfe as they can agree.

Henry Felton	Rob1. Brake	Tbo. Smith	Antby. Gawdy

Tbo*. Bacon	Tbo*. Bade	Tbo*• Edgar	Charles	Milton

Ex per Ro> Clarke V. C. P. Com.

Since allowed by the judges at the affixes at Bury.

£■	S.	D.
O	1	8
O	3	4
O	3	4
0	6	8
O	1	0
0	6	8
0	10	0
0	0	6
0	0	4
0	0	3
0	0	4
0	0	2
0	0	6
0	0	8

LAVENHAM. No alteration. The prifon is out .of repair: in 1779 a prifoner efcaped, for which the keeper was fined, though the negleft lay in the magiftrates. Two others efcapcd lately. No llraw. No proper

feparation

Digitized by

Google

Norfolk Circuit.

SUFFOLK.

207

reparation of women prifoners : an old out-houfe and liable of the keeper’s might be made convenient for them. At my lall vifit, the keeper had a number of thumb-fcrews, Jent by the ma, to fecure the prifoners.

1779, April 6, Prifoners 3. Imprelfed Men 15.

....	Sept.	25,	-	3.

1782,	July	10,	-	-	1.

CLARE. The three prifoners in 1779 had each a heavy chain, and the two imprelfed men had chains and logs. Each prifoner pays a penny a day for ftraw. No juftices have vifited this prifon for many years.

1779, April 6, Prifoners 3 Women. Imprelfed Men 2.

----	Sept.	25,	-	-	1.

1782,	July	10,	-	o.

MILDENHALL. Two rooms; the lower, ten feet and a half by ten, and the upper, twelve feet by eight. No fire-place : the prifon ruinous: no court: no fewer. Claufes of act againft fpirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s falary, £10. No fees.*

1779, Sept. 24, Prifoners o. 1782, Feb. 5, Prifoner 1.

IPSWICH TOWN BRIDEWELL

Is in the bridewell hofpital for boys. Two rooms feventeen feet by ten and a half. No fire-place.

1782, July 10, No prifoners.

BURY St. EDMUND’S GAOL.

The court-yard is now repaired and made fecure by cbevaux de frtfe. No proper feparation of men and women felons. No bath, either here, or at the county gaol. A table of fees is now hung up, copied from that in the county gaol at Ipfwicb.

1779, April 5, Debtors 18. Felons &c.	5.

1782, July 10,	-	16.	-

•The work-houfe, or houfe of induAry for this parilh, fituatcd near the church, was one of the cleaneil I ever faw. Here were upwards of forty pcrfons in 1779, and at my laft vifit fixty-nine, whofe countenances befpoke their fatisfa£tion and the attention paid to them. If all the parilhes had been as careful to promote cleanlinefs and induitry in their own work-houfes, there would have been no occafion for parilhes uniting in houfes of induitry, molt of which I have vifited in this and the adjoining county.

BURY

Digitized by

Google

Suffolk.

208

APPENDIX.

Suffolk.

BURY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. 1779, April 5, Prifoners 2.	1782, July 10, Prifoners o.

SUDBURY GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. 1779, Sept. 25, No prifoners.

MIDLAND CIRCUIT.

WARWICKSHIRE.

Warwick-	COUNTY GAOL AT WARWICK.

SHIRE.

•

The juftices of this county have taken the gaol and bridewell under confideration, and propofe that debtors and felons, and alfo men and women, in both, fhall be entirely feparated. A chapel and infirmary alfo are defigned. May it not be hoped that gentlemen lb confiderate will not continue the damp and ofFenfive dungeon, which has only an aperture level with the court, of three feet diameter. In 1782, many rooms for debtors were finilhed, which open into pafiages only three feet wide. By what is done it feems that the plan is adapted more for lhew, than for fecurity, health, or convenience.

There were hung up in the debtors hall fome rules againtl profanenefs, rioting, and drunkennefs, with penalties annexed j but 1 was forry to find among them that “ Every debtor at his or her firlt coming mull pay for garnifh 2	s.6d."—At my laft vifit I was informed there had been no divine

fervice, except to the condemned, for near two years.

1779, March 26, Debtors 22. Felons &c. 28.

1782, May 1,	32.	11,

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WARWICK.

Committed in the year 1775, one hundred and twelve—1776, eighty-nine— 1777, one hundred and three—1778, one hundred and two—1779, one hundred and thirty—1780, one hundred and twenty-fix—1781, one hundred and eleven.—The keeper’s falary is now £40. At my laft vifit the prifoners

were

Digitized by LjOOQ ie

Midland Circuit.

WARWICKSHIRE.

2 09

were all at work/ beating hemp, fpinning flax or jerfey, or carding wool.

Their earnings for the county amounted in one quarter to £4 : 12 : 3.-

from July 10, 1780, to 06t. 2,£5:8: o.--Jan. 9, 1781, to April 24,

£4 : 16 : o.--061. 3, 1781, to Jan. 15, 1782, £9:1:2.

1779, March 2 6,Prifoners 12.	1782,	May	1, Prifoners 10.

COVENTRY CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration in the gaol, but a table of fees is now hung up. Many rooms might be made for criminals in the adjoining old county-hall; in which cafe the damp unhealthy dungeons need not be ufed, and the fexes might be feparated.—One of the felons, James Ward, received his majefty’s pardon, on condition of his going to fea. Mr. Francis	,	clerk of the

affize, wrote in the letter which inclofed the pardon (which was dated Aug. 25, 1781) “ The fecretary of ftate’s fee is £ : 7 : o, and my fee £1:1:0, t( which you’ll take care to receive on the back of the pardon from the officer ** who receives him. ” As no officer would take him bn condition of paying this, together with 19.1.4*/. the gaoler’s and under-fheriff’s fees, I found the poor wretch in May 1782, languiffiing in prifon on his pound of bread a day.

1779,	March 26,	Debtors	11.	Felons &c.	3.

---	Nov. 25,	- -	5.	- -	4.	Deferters 4.

1782,	May 1,	-	8.	- - -	2.

Coventry. A Table of Debtors Fees, as fettled—by his Majefty’s Juflices of the peace for the city of Coventry— at the general quarter feflions of the peace held at the faid city—the 12th day of January 1778 according to—an a6i of parliament—the 32d George the II. —for the relief of Debtors.

Every prifoner that lies on the keeper’s fide if he has a bed to himfelf pays by £.

the week	-	-	-	-	o

Thofe prifoners on the keeper’s fide, and have a bed between two, pays each by

the week	-	-	-	-	-	o

If on the common fide each prifoner weekly	-	-	o

To the gaoler for difeharging every prifoner committed or detained in his cuftody o To the turnkey on every fuch difeharge -	-	-	o

To the undcr-fhcriff for every difeharge -	-	-	-	-	o

E e

s.	D.
2	6
I	6
O	.6
*3	+
2	0
4	0
	For

Digitized by

Google

Warwick-

shire.

IO

APPENDIX.

Warwick-

shire.

For receiving and entering every declaration	-	-	-	-	o	i	o

For a copy of each warrant againfl each prifoner	-	-	-	-	o	i	o

For every certificate of the caufe of a prifoner being detained in prifon in order

for being difeharged	-	-	-	-	-	030

Sami.	Vale, Mayor. 'J°^n

] John Clark. *. L. Smith.

20 March 1778. I have reviewed the above table of fees, confirm the fame

and do hereby eftablifh and W. H. ASHURST.

COVENTRY CITY BRIDEWELL.

5- The old town-hall is now made into a work-fhop, and two lodging-rooms for men ; the women have their feparate room, and a fmall court, and water is laid into both apartments. If the floor of the work-room were flags, and the lodging-rooms had crib-bedfteads, this prifon might be kept very clean.

1779,	March	26,	Prifoners	1.

---	Nov.	25,	-	-	1.

1782,	May	1,	4.

BIRMINGHAM TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, Aug. 23, Debtors o. Offenders 8.

1782,	June 24,	- -	o.	-	-	o.	Deferter	1.

---	Nov. 26,	-	o.	-	-	3.*	-	-	1.

BIRMINGHAM COURT PRISON for DEBTORS.

Two	rooms below; and two above	with	beds,	for	which each prifoner	pays

is. 6d.	per	week. Only one	day-room	for	men	and	women.	A	court

thirteen feet ten inches by thirteen feet: no water. Court of confcience debtors are here confined, who by the 25th Geo. II. are difeharged in forty . days. Fees, 5 s.Claufes againfl: fpirituous liquors not hung up. The prifoners are not permitted to work. The keeper informed me that he was

• Besides thefe three, I found thirty-nine prifoners who had been apprehended the preceding night by a fearch warrant, but moil of them were difeharged that morning.

obliged

Digitized by

Google

Midland Circuit.

WARWICKSHIRE, &c.

21 I

obliged to pay a {hoe-maker’s debt of fixteen or feventeen {hillings and cofts, for permitting him to finifh a piece of work which he had begun before his confinement.

1782, June 24, Prifoners 7.	1782,	Nov.	26,	Prifoners	3.

LEICESTERSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, at LEICESTER.

No alteration, but an infcription on a board is fixed over the gate, “ No “ money to be alked for by turnkeys or prifoners, for garnilh or any other (< pretence whatever. ”

It was remarked in my former work, that “ the lituation of the gaol is fo confined, that it cannot be made convenient or healthy.” But I might have hinted, that the Cajllehill is near the (hire-hall, and is a fine fpot for air and water. Here, as in many other gaols, is an ufelefs , inftead of a bath, for cleanlinefs and health.—I am forry to find the colle&ion for the prifoners fall fhort. It amounted in 1779 only to £12 : 5 : 6.-1780,	1	:	9.-

*78i> £3 • 18 : °- -

1779, March 27, Debtors 23. Felons &c. 10.

1782, May 2,	-	-	20.	-	4. Deferter 1.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

LEICESTER. The allowance now is two pennyworth of bread a day after a month’s confinement. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up. In the prifon is painted on a board : <f By order of the court at “ Eafter feflions 1778,. that there {hall be no ale or beer brought into this “ prifon on a Sunday, nor after 7 o’clock in the evening on a week day.”

In a former edition I fuggefted that if a wall were built with brick, inftead of the clay wall, there would be no need for a chain and a log, to fecure the prifoners in the court. The apartments alfo would be more airy, and men and women might be feparated, if the narrow court were

E e 2	enlarged

«



Digitized by

Google

Warwick-

shire.

Leicester-

shire.

212

APPENDIX.

Leicester-

shire.

enlarged from the orchard, which was let by the keeper for	annum.

—At my laft vifit I found the court enlarged, and a wall built; but there is not a proper reparation of men and women. The prifoners now are without the chain. This prifon is white-waflied once a year, and kept remarkably neat and clean. The prifoners do not lie on the floors, but very properly, their mats are on cribs or bedfteads. Committed from

Eafter fcffions 1779 to 1780, forty-four-1780 to 1781, fifty-nine----

1781 to 1782, forty-eight.

1779, March 27, Prifoners, 4 Men and 4 Women.

1782, May 2,	--	1.	-	-	i» - -

MELTON-MOWBRAY. No alteration.

1779, Sep. 21,	1782, May 2, No prifoners.

HINKLEY. No alteration.

1779, March 28,	1782,	May	1,	No	prifoners.

LEICESTER TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration; but a table of fees now hung up. At my laft vifit William Slack, one of the felons, had received his majefty’s free pardon, (April 9,) and was ordered “ to be fet at liberty” (figned)	;	but	for	the	fees

of the fecretary of ftate £\ : 7 : 6, and clerk of aftize £1 : 1 : o, the pardoned criminal was ftill in prifon.

1779, March 27, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 2.

1782, May 2, -	- 2.	-	-	3.

Borough of Leicejler in the county of Leicefler. A Table of Fees to be taken by the keeper of his Majefty’s gaol for the faid borough.

For lodging every prifoner per week	....

For a room, of every perfon who finds his own bed per week For the gaol fees for the difcharge of every prifoner	-

For the turnkey	-	-	-

A room called the debtors room if they find their own bed to pay For the copy of every warrant or commitment	-

For figning a certificate in order to obtain a fuperjedeas At the delivery of every declaration	-

Attending upon every prifoner to give bail, fpecial bail,	or	any	thing

neceffary to go out of gaol for every mile travelling

£■	S.	D.
O	2	4
O	1	0
O	*3	4
O	2	0
O	1	0
O	1	3
O	1	0
O	1	0
O	1	0
Michael		mas

Digitized by

Google

Midland Circuit.

21

LEICESTERSHIRE, &c.

Michaelmas SefHons 1776.

We whofe names are hereunto fubfcribcd three of his majefty’s juftices of the peace for the borough of Leicejler aforefaid do hereby allow the above fees to be taken (the 13*. 4 above to the gaoler and the 2 s.to the turnkey where the prifoner againft whom no bill of . indidtment {hall be found by the grand jury, and who, on his or her trial (hall be acquitted, or who fhall be difcharged by proclamation for want of profecution, only excepted.)

IVI11. Burletorty Recorder. Rob’. Peach.

We the judges of affize for the borough of Leicejler aforefaid have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above table of fees. Given under our hands this 22d day of March 1777.

G. Nares. S. S. Smythe.

“ This is a true copy of the original.”

LEICESTER	TOWN	BRIDEWELL.

No alteration: but the keeper’s falary augmented to £5.

1779, March 27,	1782,	May	2,* No prifoners.

DERBYSH IRE.

COUNTY	GAOL	at DERBY.

No alteration. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners hung up.

1779, May 14, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 6. Imprefled 5. Deferters 3. 1782, Jan. 23,	-	-	13.	-	-	-	12.	-	-	o.	-	-1.

DERBY TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.	1779,	May	14,	Debtors	o.	Felons &c.	o.

1782,	Jan.	23,	-	-	4.	-	-	-	2.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at CHESTERFIELD.

No alteration. This prifon is out of repair. A court is now made from one of the keeper’s gardens j and there is a cellar for the women, in which I faw one fick objeft.

1779, May	14, Prifoners 1.	Imprefled Men	3.	Defcrter 1.

1782, Jan.	24,	-	-	3.	o.	-	-	1.

CHESTER-

Digitized by

Google

Leicester-

shire.

Derbyshire

214

A P P E N D I

X.

Perbyshire.

Notting-

hamshire.

CHESTERFIELD GAOL.

No alteration. I found in this prifon a ftrong bedftead, which had been compallionately left by a poor prifoner, that it might be fome relief to his unhappy fucceflors.

1779, May 14,	1782, Jan. 24, Debtors none.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at NOTTINGHAM.

The felons court is more airy, the wall being now palifaded and there is an entire feparation of debtor? and felons. There is a new room for the turnkey, and adjoining, a dark lodging-room for women.

1779, Sept. 19, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 5.

1782, Jan. ai,	11.	-	6.

NOTTINGHAM TOWN GAOL.

No alteration, but a table of fees hung up.

1779, Sept. 19, Debtors 2. Felons &c. o.

1782, Jan. 21,	1.	- - - 1.

Town of Nottingham ; A Table of Fees to be taken by the gaoler or keeper of his majefty's gaol for the town of Nottingham; of prifoners confined for debt therein, as fettled by ,	us—juftices of the peace—on Thurfday the tenth day of April, one thoufand feven

hundred and feventy-feven—as follows :

For the lodging and board of each prifoner, when he lodges and diets with the gaoler, per week, feven (hillings.	....

For each prifoner when fuch prifoner hath a room and a bed of the gaoler and diets himfelf, by the week, two {hillings.	...

For each prifoner when he hath a room of the gaoler, and finds his own bed and diet, by the week, fix pence.	-

For the difcharge of each prifoner, thirteen (hillings and four pence.

For the turnkey for the fame, one (lulling and four pence.

£■	S. D.
O	7 °
O	2 0
O	0 6
O	>3 4
O	• 4
	The

Digitized by

Google

Midland Circuit.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

215

The gaoler is to take notice, that if he takes more than the above fums he is liable to forfeit to the party aggrieved for each offence the fum of fifty pounds, (exclufive of the penalties inflicted by former adls).

And the faid Juftices do order and diredl, that the clerk of the peace for this town and the county thereof, do as foon as conveniently may be, put up a copy of this table in forne confpicuous open place within the gaol of the faid town, in order that the fame may be infpected as oceafions may require, and be preferved within the faid gaol, to be reforted to by the faid prifoners at all feafonable times in the day-time without paying any thing for the fame, after the original table (which is now ingrofled on parchment, and is intended to be filed amongft the records of this court) has been reviewed and confirmed, or moderated by the Judge of AlEze at the next Affizes to be holden for this town.

W. H. ASHURST.

Tbo. Sands, Mayor.	Rich.	Butler,	Aid.	J°^'n	Fellows,	Aid.

NOTTINGHAM TOWN BRIDEWELL..

No alteration. Here is a mill for grinding horfe-beans.

1779, Sept. 19, Prifoners o. 1782, Jan. 21, Prifoners 2.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SOUTHWELL.

No alteration. A court for the women might be made out of the keeper’s garden. There is painted on a board over the keeper’s door, “ The fees of «f this place is, three (hillings and fix pence: N. B. None is exempted from tf paying, but common vagrants.”

1779, Sept. 20, Prifoners 17.	1782,	Nov.	17,	Prifoners	9.

NEWARK TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. 1779, Sept. 20, Prifoners o.	Deferters 2.

1782, Nov. 17, - - - o.	- - 4.

BASFORD PRISON.

No alteration. 1779, Sept. 20,' Prifoners 2.

LINCOLN-

Digitized by

Google

Nottikc-

HAMSHIRR.

i6

APPENDIX.

Lincoln-

shire.

LINCOLNSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, LINCOLN CASTLE.

• \

No alteration. The act for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up.

No bath.—'Thomas Robert Jenkinfon, by will (proved Feb. 13, 1772) left the intereft of £120 to the debtors in this prifon, to be equally divided among them annually on Eafter Monday, with this provifo, that if the whole intereft for one year is fufficient to difcharge any one debtor, within fourteen days of the time of payment, the faid fum fhall be applied for that purpofe, at the difcretion of his truftees.

1779, May 6, Debtors 22. Felons 14.

1782, Feb. 1,	-	-	30.	-	-	3.	Dutch	prifoners	of war 7.*

COUNTY BRIDEWEL L S.

GAINSBOROUGH. No alteration. 1779, May 6, Prif. 5. Lunat. 3.

1782, Jan. 31, --4.	-	-	2.

FOLKINGHAM. No alteration. Prifon out of repair. A lunatic was confined here fome years.

1779, May 5, Prifoners 2. Lunatic 1.

1782, Feb. 2,	-	-	-	2.

SPALDING. No alteration, but a pump in the court, which not being fecure, the prifoners have no accefs to it. The furgeon’s falary is ^12. In the twelve years preceding 1782, there were four hundred and feventy-three prifoners, of whom forty-one were debtors.

1779, March 29, Prifoners 13.

--- Oft. 11,	-	2.

1782, Feb. 3,	-	4-

STAMFORD TOWN GAOL.

No alteration, but the prifon finifhed at the town-hall, which is neither fo convenient nor healthy as the old one.

1779, Sept. 2i, Prifoners o. 1782, May 3, Prifoners 2.

# Sec page 142.

BOSTON

Digitized by

Google

Midland Circuit.

LINCOLNSHIRE, &c.

117

BOSTON TOWN GAOL.

This is alfo the bridewell. Two damp ofFenfive rooms about fourteen feet fquare, and over them two rooms for women, and two rooms adjoining for debtors. No court: no water. Claufes of aft againft fpirituous liquors not hungup. Salary, as gaoler ^io. as keeper £5. Fees,

1779, Oft. n> Debtors o. Felons &c. 2.

1782, Feb. 2,	-	o.	- - - o.

LINCOLN CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors, fairly written on parchment, were framed, and hung up.

1779, May 6, Debtor 1.	Felons &c. o.

1782, Feb. 1,	-	-	1.	1.

RUT LANDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at OAKHAM.

The whole prifon is thatched. There were no rooms proper for the feparation of men and women, or of bridewell prifoners from felons; but lately one	room with	a fire-place	is made in the barn for that	purpofe.	The	aft

for	preferving the	health of	prifoners not hung up.	The furgeon	now

Mr. Berry.

1779,	March 28,	Debtors 5. Felons &c. 5	Deferters	3.

--	Sept. 21,	-	-	3.	-	-	-	1.

1782,	May 3,	-	-	2.	-	-	-	3.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at NORTHAMPTON.

The gaol clean, and the gaoler attentive and humane to his prifoners; debtors, felons, and petty offenders at work, fpinning, making pegs for Ihoe-makers. See. Gaoler’s falary	£30.—The bridewell part confifts	of one room,

F f	with

Digiti; * by

Google

Lincoln-

shire*

Rutland

shire.

Northamp-

tonshire.

APPENDIX.

218

North amp-

TONSHIRE.

with a clofe bed-room, and a room over them; all made very offenfive by a fewer.—Two pence a day is allowed for meat, to each of the felons. The chapel is in a more convenient fituation than formerly. The table of fees is now figned and hung up: that which the gaoler fliewed me on my former vifits was neither dated, figned, nor hung up ; which occafioned my faying in the firft edition, “ No table of fees.”

1779, March 25, Debtors 14. Felons &c. 9.

---- Nov. 24,	-	15.	-	-	-	15.

1782, July 14,	-	-	19.	-	-	-	10.

Nortbamptonjhire, to wit.

At the General quarter feflions of the peace—holden at Northampton, in and for the faid county, on Thurfday—the fixteenth day of January, in the feventeenth year of the reign of our fovereign lord George the third—before the Reverend John Hilly do&or of laws; Ambrofe IJledy Efq. Brook Bridgesy and Charles Addingtony clerks 5 juftice lord the king, &c. It is ordered, by this court, that the following rates taken by the keeper of his majefty’s gaol for the faid county ; and no other.

For the lodging of every prifoner for debt, in his houfe, per week.

For the difeharge of every fuch prifoner out of cuftody for debt.

Ditto to the turnkey, >

For the copy of every warrant,	-	-	-

For figning a certificate, in order to obtain a fuperfedeas,

For regiftering a declaration,	-

For attending with every prifoner in order to give bail, or be otherwiff difeharged for debt, within the town of Northampton.	...

of	our	faid
and fees		be
	S.	D.
O	2	0
O	13	4
O	2	0
O	1	0
O	2	0
O	1	0
O	2	0

And it is further ordered, that the above Table of Fees be laid before the Judges, at the next affizes to be holden for the faid county, for their revifal and confirmation ; and, if the fame fhall be fo confirmed, that a copy thereof be hung up in fome confpicuous part of the prifon, and another copy in the grand-jury gallery.

By the Court,

Morgan, Clerk of the Peace.

We, the Judges of Affize for the county of Northampton have reviewed, and do hereby confirm, the above-written Table of Fees. Given under our hands, at the affizes holden at Northampton the fourth day of March, 1777.

S. S. Smythe. G. Nares.

COUNTY

Digitized by

Google

Midland Circuit.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

219

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

KETTERING. This prifon is in the back-court of the keeper’s public houfe. A room for men eighteen feet and a half by fifteen and a half, in which down three fteps is a lodging-room eight feet by five and a half, with an aperture in the door fifteen inches by eleven. Court nineteen feet and a half fquare. For women, a feparate court, and a room about the fame fize as the men’s day-room : dirt floors : windows clofe glazed. No water: no fewer. Claufes of aft againft fpirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s fa 1 ary, ^12. Fees, 23. 6d.Receives rent of the county £15 : 10:0. From New-year’s day 1780 to 1781, here were a hundred and five prifoners.

1779, Oft. 12, Prifoners 2.	1782, July 14, Prifoners o.

OUNDLE. Several rooms in a ruinous houfe rented by the county at £12 a year. Keeper’s falary, ^12. Fees, 3.1. 6d. No table.

1779, Sept. 22, Oft. 12, No prifoners. 1782, May 4, One prifoner.

NORTHAMPTON TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms for felons, and one for debtors. The gentlemen of the corporation have made feparate courts for the debtors and felons, with fewers, &c. Felons are allowed two pence a day. The gaoler is a bailiff and fheriff’s officer: licence for beer: he has no falary: pays rent £3. Fees, 13j.

No table.

I779>	March	25,	Debtor	1.	Felons	&c.	o.

---	Nov.	24,	-	-	1.	- -	-	o.	Deferters	1.

1782,	July	15,	-	-	o.	- -	-	o.	- -	4.

PETERBOROUGH’ GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, Sept. 21, Debtor 1.

1782, May 3,	-	-	1. Deferters 3.

PETERBOROUGH BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. 1779, Sept. 21, Prifoner 1.	1782,	May	3, Prifoner o.

F f 2	DAVENTRY

Digitized by

Google

Northamp-

tonshire,

220

APPENDIX.

Northamp-

tonshire.

Berkshire.

DAVENTRY GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, Nov. 24,	1782,	Nov.	27,	No	prifoners.

BRACKLEY GAOL.

A room called the dungeon, four feet fquare, under the ltaircafe of the town-hall: an oval aperture in the door eight inches by fix. The conftable is gaoler. No court: no water.

1779, Oft. 13, No prifoners.

OXFORD CIRCUIT. BERKSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at READING.

No alteration. The common-fide debtors pay one (hilling and fix pence, and the mafter-fide two (hillings and fix pence a week for lodging. The chapel is much too fmall. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners was painted on a board in the debtors court; and at my lad vifit, the rules and orders.

1779, April 21, Debtors. 9. Felons &c. 9. Imprefled Men 19.

1782, March 5,	-	-	19.	11.

The Rules and Orders of this gaol, as fettled by the High-Sheriff and Jullices for this

County 1781.

Lodging for each debtor per week if furnilhed by the goaler, for each bed If occupied by two prifoners, each prifoner -On the difeharge of a debtor, goaler’s fee on each warrant Turnkey, ditto	-

The turnkey to attend the prifoners three times a day to bring them fuch provifions and neceflaries as ftiall be required, viz. for the hour of breakfalt from nine to ten ; for dinner, from twelve to one; for fupper, from fix to feven.

£■

o

o

o

S.

3

1

13

2

D.

o

6

4

6

COUNTY

Digitized by

Google

Oxford Circuit.

BERKSHIRE.

221

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

READING. No alteration. The prifon is dirty and out of repair. The county pays rent to the corporation.	and	women together in the

day-time. Only one prifoner fpinning. The wheels and hemp-blocks are the keeper’s property. Allowance to petty offenders, two pint loaves each, every Sunday, and one, every week-day. Claufes of the aft againft fpirituous liquors hung up: and there were painted on a board, fome orders to be obferved in the bridewell, approved by	Andrews

and Ferd. Collins, juftices, at the quarter feflions, April 28, 1778.

1779, April 21, Prifoners 7.	1782,	March	5, Prifoners 13.

READING TOWN GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, April 21,	1782,	March	5, No prifoners.

ABINGDON BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. 1779, April 22, Prifoners 3.

1782, Dec. 25, -	-	- 13. Defertcr 1.

ABINGDON TOWN GAOL.

Several rooms over a gateway. The firft floor for debtors. Above are rooms for felons &c. No court: no fewer: no water acceflible to prifoners. Allowance to felons, three pence a day. Keeper, one of the fergeants at mace: no falary. Fees, Debtors 4 Felons 6s. 8 No table: licence for beer.

1779, April 22, Debtor 1. Felqps See. o.

1782, Dec. 25,	-	-	1.	-	-	-	3.

WINDSOR CASTLE PRISON.

No alteration. The preamble in the table of fees for the Honour and Caft'e of Windjor recites, “ that complaint having been made to me of fome

“ abufes and irregularities committed in demanding and receiving fees,-the

“ table being defaced, fo that the words and figures are hardly legible, &c.”— This table was made May 10th, the firft year of	II. 1728, fubferibed

Carlijle.

Digitized by

Google

Berkshire.

222

APPENDIX.

Berkshire.

Oxfordshire.

Carlifle. There feems the fame ground of complaint with refpeft to the prefent table being defaced. As the fees are lower here than in moft other prifons, the table fhould be preferved to prevent impofitions. At my laft vifit I found that the old keeper had been murdered in the tap-room by a foldier, who alfo killed another, and was then fhot himfelf. This is not the firft in-ltance which I have known of perfons being murdered in the tap-room of gaols. Such are the bad effefts of felling liquors in prifons.

1779, March 10, Prifoner 1.	1782,	Nov.	1,	Prifoner	o.

WINDSOR TOWN GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, March io, Prifoner 1.	1782,	Nov.	1,	Prifoner o.

WALLINGFORD TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, April 22, Prifoner 1.	1779,	061.	20,	1782,	Dec.	25,	No	prifoners.

OXFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, OXFORD CASTLE. Chaplain now Rev. Mr. Cotton.

It is very probable, that the rooms in this caftle are the fame as the prifoners occupied at the time of the Black	The	wards	are	clofe	and

ofi’enfive; fo that if crowded, I fhould not greatly wonder to hear of another fatal affize at Oxford. At my laft vifit fome of the debtors rooms were white-wafhed. The felons day-room is paved with flat ftones in confequence of their taking up the pebbles for defence, after an attempt to efcape. For the fame reafon, their court fliould be thus paved.—Of the thirty-one felons &c. 178 2, fifteen were fines.

Debtors. Felons Sec.	Debtors.	Felons	&c.

1779, Feb. 25, 12.	15.	1782,	April 28,	16.	10.

--- July 29,	13.	4.	... Dec. 25,	25.	31.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

THAME. No alteration in the houfe, but in February 1779 the prifoners were carding and fpinning. Claufes of aft againft fpirituous liquors not

hung

Digitized by

Google

Oxford Circuit.	OXFORDSHIRE.

hung up. From midfummer 1778 tomidfummer 1779, twenty-fix perfons

were committed to this prifon;-to 1780, nine;-to 1781, eighteen,-

to 1782, fourteen.

1779,-Feb. 25, Prifoners 4.	1782,	April 28, Prifoners o.

--- Oft. 20,	-	-	o.	- Oft. 26,	-	-	1.

WITNEY. At my vifit in 1779 the prifoners were at work: the keeper now is a manufafturer, and employs them. He pays them for their work, two pence a pound for the chain, and three halfpence for the Jhooty fo that each earns about three pence a day. At my laft vifit I found a room built for men (fixteen feet and a half by twelve and a half) in which there are two cells (feven feet by four and a half) with apertures in the doors nine inches fquare. Up Hairs are two rooms for the fick (nine feet two inches by eight feet four, and fix feet five inches high,) with only apertures in the doors of fourteen inches by twelve. No chimney. To this prifon

were committed, in 1779, fifty-one;-in 1780, thirty-fix;-in 1781,

thirty-eight.

1779, Feb. 26, Prifoners 7.	1782, Oft. 26, Prifoners 2.

OXFORD CITY BRIDEWELL.

Two garrets in the keeper’s houfe: no court: no water: allowance 1 s. \d. each per week in bread. Salary, 5. Fees, 3J. 4	No table.

1782, Dec. 25, One felon from the caftle, being king’s evidence.

OXFORD UNIVERSITY BRIDEWELL.

Two garrets in the keeper’s houfe. 1782, Dec. 25, No prifoners.

BANBURY TOWN GAOL.

This prifon (built 1706) has two rooms below, one of which is called the gaoly the other the bridewelly and one room up ftairs for debtors who pay 2	6d.

a week. Allowance to felons 4 4.a day. Claufes againlt fpirituous liquors not hung up. Salary none: gaoler keeps a public houfe and pays rent £6 a year. Fees, debtors and felons, ijj. 4 bridewell prifoners, 6s. 8

1782, April 30, No prifoners.

HENLEY

223

Oxfordshire.

Digitized by ^ooQie

224

APPENDIX.

O.XF0R DSH I R E .

HENLEY TOWN GAOL.

Near the town-hall. Two rooms or cages (fix feet and a half by five feet and a half) which open into a paffage three feet and a half wide. No court: no fewer: no water. Keeper, town fergeant j licence for beer. Fees, is. for every prifoner the firft night, and 6d. every night after.

Worcester- COUNTY GAOL, WORCESTER CASTLE.

The cadle-yard is raifed and gravelled. A workman for a guinea a year keeps the hand-ventilator in repair. A larger and more convenient room is now fitted up for a chapel. I found the debtors apartments very clean. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners is written on paper, and hung up.

The magiftrates may be fully convinced of the impropriety and indecency of having only one day-room, if they examine the women fent from this gaol to the bridewell.—At my lad vifit I found the gaol-fever prevailing, which had carried off fome of the prifoners, the gaoler, and Dr.	,	a	phyfician,

whofe humanity had led him to attend the prifon. Two rooms were taken from the bridewell for the fick, who lay in their clothes on draw. At my requed, the irons of thofe who were ill were taken off.

The uneafy fituation of the prifoners at night in the horrid dungeon, has,

I doubt not, been one caufe of their illnefs; for even in this drong and deep dungeon, prifoners (as in too many other gaols) are all night chained together, by a heavy chain through the links in their fetters and iron rings fadened to the floor.*

* My mind reverts to an admirable thought of Mr. s ; Principles of Penal Law, p. 330. “ A very flight reflexion, on the numberlefs unforefeen events which a day may bring forth, “ will be fullieient to fhew that wc are all liable to the imputation of guilt ; and confequently “ all intcrcfled, not only in the prote&Lon of innocence, but in the alignment to every “ particular offence, of the fmallell punifhmcnt compatible with the fafety of focicty.”

1782, Dec. 26, Prifoners 4.

WORCESTERSHIRE.

SHIRE.

There

Oxford Circuit.

WORCESTERSHIRE.

There is now a ufelefs tub lined with lead, called a bath. Such a bath as Wo there is in the county infirmary, might fave the lives of many prifoners.

1779, May 18, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 8.

1782,	April 25,	-	15.	*-	-	-	7.	Deferter	1.

1783,	Sept. 28,	-	-	26.	-	-	-	33.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WORCESTER.

The prifon very clean. The prifoners were employed, beating hemp. Six new rooms are added. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up. At my laft vifit each prifoner had a three penny loaf a day (weight one pound fifteen ounces).

1779,	May 18,	Prifoners 6.

1782,	April 25,	-	-	- 3.

1783,	Sept. 28,	-	-	- 23.

WORCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration : only over the day-room for criminals there is now a workroom. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up*.

1779,	May	18,'Debtors 6.	Felons &c. 4.	ImprelTed Men 3.	Deferters 2.

1782,	April	26,	-	-	4.	- - - 2.	----o.	-	--3.	-

1783,	Sept.	28,	-	-	7.	- --5.	-o.	-	--1.

KIDDERMINSTER TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms called dungeons about ten feet by eight, down fix fteps, under the market-houfe. No court:	no water:	no fewer: debtors from the

court of requefts are cleared in forty days. The cryer is keeper, has a (hilling a month for attendance, and a (hilling for draw.

1779, Aug. 30, No prifoners.

Gg	STAFFORB-

Digitized by ^ooQie

226

APPENDIX.

STAFFORDSHIRE.

Stafford-	COUNTY	.GAOL	AT	STAFFORD.

SHlRE.

No alteration. The debtors court and free-ward are fpacious; in the latter is a hand-ventilator for the felons dungeon, which being out of repair, has not been ufed for many years: were the county to allow a guinea a year, it might be kept in order, as is done in	caftle.	An alarm-bell

in this crowded gaol would be very proper.—Only	day-room for men

and women felons, down three fteps (fifteen feet by twelve and fix feet three inches high). A<5t for prefacing the health of prifoners not hung up. No infirmary: no bath.

Mr. Hughes (now the furgeon) is apothecary to the county infirmary, which is near the gaol. He receives £8 of the £20 allowed by the county, and. the remaining £12 is paid to the infirmary for drugs.

1779, May 15, Debtors 40. Felons &c. 14. Imprefled Men 11.

1782, Nov. 24, -	- 38.	- - - 20.	Deferter -	1.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

STAFFORD. No alteration. No employment: the prifoners in irons. Allowance two hundred of coals a week from Michaelmas to May-day.

1779, May 15, Prifoners 9.	1782,	Nov.	Prifoners	6.

WOLVERHAMPTON. No alteration, but the old houfe and garden occupied by the keeper. Licence for beer. Sometimes, here are fourteen or fifteen prifoners, who then are almoft fuffocated'.

1779, Aug. 23, Prifoners 2.	1782,	Nov.	25,	Prifoners	3.

LICHFIELD. To the two clofe cells are added two new ones, and two rooms for debtors; a court is enclofed, in which is an offenfive fewer. No water acceffible to prifoners *

1779, Nov. 26, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 1.

,782, --- 25,	-	-	2.	-	-	-	2.

* Water might be laid into the court at a fmall expence, as it is in a houfe adjoining. For “ Heitor Bean,Gent, gave by feoffment to eight feoffees lands and tenements within the. “ county of Stafford, of the yearly value of fioo and upwards to fupport and maintain the “ public conduits, cifterns and pipes, belonging to this city for ever.” This I copied from an infcription in St. Mary’s church in Lichfield.

WALSALL

I

Digitized by ^ooQie

Oxford Circuit.

STAFFORDSHIRE, &c.

227

W.A LS ALL TOWN GAOL.	Stafford-

SHIRE,

Two rooms under the town-hall; that for debtors has a fire-place.- In this (and many fuch prifons which I have not mentioned) offenders are confined only for a. night or two, till they are carried before a magiftrate: and debtors have many friends who refort to the windows.

1782, Nov. 25, No prifoners.

SHRO PSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL AT SHREWSBURY.	Shropshire.

No alteration. Here are three large lamps in the court fupplied at the county’s expence. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners, claufes againft fpirituous liquors, the prohibition of garnifli, and a new table of fees, were all hung up, and very confpicuous. The day-room for felons is fifteen feet and a half by five and a half:	and	women together. Here were

feveral convifts, one of whom had been ordered to the Thames fummer affize, 1777. At my laft vifit there were fix convifts. Surgeon now Mr. Wheeler.

1779, May 15, Debtors 21. Felons &c. 18. Impreffed Man r. Def. 1.

---- Aug. 24,	-	-	23.	-	-	-	10.	-	-o.	-1.

1782, June 23,	-	-	19.	-	-	-	19.

Shropjhire. A Table of the Rates and Fees to be taken by the Gaoler for the County of Salop, fettled—by the Juftices of the Peace for the faid county—the 14th day of July 1778.

The Chamber Rent.

To the gaoler for lodging and his furniture on the mailer’s lidc, each perfon having a bed to himfelf	-	per	week

But if two lodge in the fame bed on their own ele&ion, then each to pay, per week To the gaoler for lodging of each perfon in the garrets on the gaoler’s bed and furniture	-	per	week

Note. No perfon fhall be moved out of a room where he is placed by the gaoler without his own confent, or the confent of two jullices of the peace for the faid county, or negledl of paying chamber rent.

That no perfon pay any rent or money whatfoever for lodging on the common fide, unlefs he ufed the gaoler’s bed and furniture, in which cafe he is to pay

per week

G g 2

£. S. D.

020

016

010

o 1 o Fees

Digitized by k^ooQle

22$

Appendix.

Shropshire.

Fees for the Gaoler for Debtors.	£.	S.

To the gaoler for the commitment of each debtor	-	-	-05

To the gaoler for the difcharge of each debtor	-	-	-03

To the gaoler for entering in his books every charge	upon	fuch	debtor	-	01

For the copy of every (heriff’s warrant (if demanded)	-	-01

But the debtors to have recourfe to fee the book of commitment (if demanded) gratis*

To the gaoler for every debtor if detained upon two or more a&ions, fifteen

fhillings, including the five (hillings upon commitment and no more - o 1; For receiving and entering every declaration againft	debtors in	cuftody	-	01

For every certificate in order for a fuperftdeaS) or in order to fue out a rule of court o 2

Fees for the Gaoler for Felons or other Crimes.

To the gaoler for the difcharge of every prifoner found guilty of felony. If at Aflizes o 13 To the gaoler for the difcharge of every prifoner found guilty of felony. If at Seflions o	9

To the gaoler for the difcharge of every prifoner committed for a certain time, or fined and committed until paid, or bailed out of gaol, or fuperfeded by a

juftice or juftices of the peace	-	-	,	-	-07

But if continued in gaol three months or upwards	-	-	-09

For the copy of every commitment (if defired)	-	-	-01

For every certificate of commitment, in order to fue	out a habeas corpus	-	02

The following Articles to be allowed by the County.

To the gaoler for the difcharge of every perfon charged with felony, or other crime, or as an acceffary thereto, againft whom no bill of indiftment (hall be found by the grand jury, or who on his or her trial (hall be acquitted, or who (hall be difcharged by proclamation for want of profecution—If at Aflizes	o	13

If at Seflions	o	9

Chaf. Baldwyn, IV. T. Davenport,	Wm. Smithy Juftices.

Auguft 13th 1778. Allowed and confirmed the above Table of Fees, by us

J. Skynner, G. Nares, Judges of Aflize.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHREWSBURY.

D.

o

o

o

o

o

o

6

4

o

8

o

o

6

4

o

Here is a new work-room. Half a hundred of coals is allowed weekly from

Michaelmas to the Lent aflize. This is the only houje of correction for the

_ *

county. The gaol being too fmall and enclofed with buildings, and the

windows of the bridewell opening into the courts of the gaol, if the whole

were converted into a houfe of correttion, every convenience might be made

for labour and folitary confinement. A new gaol might then be built that

would do credit to the County.

1779,	May	15,	Prifoners	6.

----	Aug.	24,	- -	8.

1782,	June	23,	-	16.

SHREWSBURY

Digitized by

Google

Oxford Circuit.

SHROPSHIRE, &c.

SHREWSBURY TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL,

At the Caftle-gate j it confifts of fundry rooms on two floors over the gateway. A fmall court: no fewer: no water, though water is laid in, to feveral houfes very near : no employment. Allowance to criminals, three halfpence a day. Fees, debtors §s. 6d. criminals 3.1. 6 d.No table. Gaoler’s falary,' £5.

1779, May 15/ Prifoners	-	o.

--- Aug. 24, Debtor	-	1.

1782, June 23, Petty Offenders 12.

LUDLOW TOWN GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, May 16, Prifoners o. Deferter 1.

--- July 27,	-	2.

1782, Sept. 27,	o.

LUDLOW TOWN BRIDEWELL.

One room at the back of the work-houfe (fourteen feet by fix and a half), with a bedftead : no fire-place: no window; an aperture in the door ten inches fquare.

1782, Sept. 27, No prifoners.

HEREFORDSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HEREFORD.

No alteration, but the chapel boarded, and now dry. In 1779 I found feveral convi&s, two of whom had been ordered to the Thames at fummer aflize, 1777. The a<ft for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. No infirrrflary: no bath. Surgeon now Mr. Thomas Cam: falary £20.

1779, May 17, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 9. Imprefled Men 6. 1782, April 26,	-	-	23.	-	-	-	6.

COUNTY

Digitized by t^OOQLe

23°

Hereford-

shire.

Monmouth-

shire.

APPENDIX.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at HEREFORD.

1779, May 17. The prifoners were in the county gaol, and they were repairing this prifon, for the crofs-wallhad fallen in. But the fpot on which it is built is fo confined, that it cannot be convenient. Only two rooms for work and lodging for both fexes (twenty-two feet nine inches by twenty-one) no chimney; no ftraw; and as there is no court, the fewers muft make thefe rooms very unhealthy. It is a flight building : the prifoners in irons. If the gentlemen had thought of building the bridewell in one.of the two fpacious gardens adjoining to the county gaol, and occupied by the gaoler j then, if they had no chapel, the prifoners (as thofe in	bridewell)	might have the

privilege of public worlhip in the county gaol.

1782, April 26, Prifoners 4.

HEREFORD CITY GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, May 17, Debtors 4. Felons &c. o.

1782, April 26,	-	-	o.	-	-	-	o.	Deferter 1.

MONMOUTHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at MONMOUTH.

No alteration. The aft - for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up: no bath. Ten of the twelve felons &c. in 1779, were convifts,	of them

at the fummer afllze in 1775..

1779, June 2, Debtors 6. Felons &c. 12.

1782, Oft. 24,	-	-	10.	-	-	-	1.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at USK.

The rooms that are now built for the keeper are fome finall improvement of this prifon. The prifoners have fome allowance. The fpinrting-wheels, &c. are not provided by the county. The keeper has all the profit of the work. Licence, now for beer.

1779, June Prifoners 7.

1782, Oft. 24,	2.	Deferter	1.

MON-

Digitized by

Google

Oxford Circuit.

MONMOUTHSHIRE, &c.

MONMOUTH TOWN

GAOL.

A room on the firft floor for debtors, and another over it for felons. No court: no water. Allowance to felons, two pence a day. Gaoler’s falary, ^4.

1779, June 2, No prifoners.

1782,	061.	24.	Debtor 1, Petty offender 1.

NEWPORT TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms; one below, the other over the gateway; out of repair; no court; no fewer; no water.

1782,	06t.	24,	No	prifoners.

GLOCESTERSH1RE.

COUNTY GAOL, GLOCESTER CASTLE.

Eight prifoners died about Chriftmas 1778, of the fmallpox. No proper feparation of the fexes, or of the bridewell prifoners from the reft. From the magiftrates inattention to this important point, there is the moft licentious intercourfe; and all the endeavours of the chaplain to promote reformation, muft neceflarily be defeated, where the moft abandoned are daily encouraging the others in vice. Many children have been born in this gaol.

Eleven of the twenty-four felons in 177 9, and fixteen in 1782, were fines without any allowance. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors, and the a6l for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. At my vifit in 1782 I found fome improvements: the floors laid with ftone; boxes or bedfteads for the felons and fines; and the whole prifon white-wafhed. The windows (improperly) were clofe glazed. Numbers of the townfmen were drinking in the tap-room.—Surgeons, Mefirs. Powell and Mills. In 1783, feveral died of the fmallpox and gaol-fever. No bath; one like that in the county hofpital with an eafy defcent would induce felons even with their irons to go in. This would frefhen and revive them, and might be the means of preventing the

gaol-

Digitized by

Google

231

AIO N M 0 U T II -SHIRE.

Glocester-

SHIRE.

23 2

APPENDIX.

Glocester-

S H I RE.

gaol-fever. I was happy to hear in Oft. 1783, that this county has determined to build a new gaol, and to reform the bridewells ; which is principally owing to the fpirited exertions of the chairman of the grand jury Sir	Paul.

Debtors. Felons Arc.	Debtors.	Felons	&c.

1779,	June 1,	16.	24.	1782, Dec. 23,	38.	38.

1782,	April 27,	24.	24.	1783, Sep. 30,	30.	46.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

LAWFORD’s GATE, BRISTOL.

No alteration.

*779,	Feb-	8,	Prifoners	4.

---	Sept.	1,	5.

1782,	March	2,	-	-	6.

BERKELEY. No alteration. The keeper pays out of his falary of £20, £6 a year to the poor of the parilh for ground-rent.

A farther account of prifoners committed to labour and

		Men.	Women.
In 1778, committed		6.	4-
Nothing expended, nothing earned.			
1779, Ditto -		7-	2.
Nothing expended, nothing earned.			
1780, Ditto		+* •	1.
Nothing expended, nothing	earned.		
1781, Ditto -		12.	8.
Nothing expended, nothing	earned.		
1782, Ditto, to Michaelmas fefhons	-	4-	0.

Nothing expended, nothing earned.

Fra1. Norman.

1779, June 9, No prifoners. 1782, Oft. 25, One prifoner.

CIRENCESTER. No alteration. 1779, June 9, Prifoners 6.

1782, Oft.25,	-	-	3. Deferter 1.

WINCHCOMB.

Digitized by

Google

Oxford Circuit.

GLOCESTERSHIRE, &c.

*33

WINCHCOMB. No alteration. The prifon quite ruinous. The old keeper is dead, and his nephew (who is now keeper) faid, that “ he fhould be obliged to put irons on all the prifoners to fecure them.”

1779, May 19, Prifoners - o.

1782, Dec. 24, Petty Offender 1.

St. BRIEVELL’s GAOL for debtors.

No alteration. 1779, June 2,	1782,	Dec.	23,	No	prifoners.

GLOCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

At my vifit in 1782 this gaol was taken down, an aft of parliament having palTed in 1781, for building a new gaol, “ in fome convenient and healthy fituation.” In Sept. 1783 the new gaol was nearly finifhed, but not occupied. It is built on too fmall a fcale, the walls and rooms are low, and there cannot be a proper feparation of the fexes, or of debtors and felons.*

1779, June 1, Debtor 1, Felon &c. 1.

1782, April 27, 1783, Sep. 30, The prifoners were in the county gaol.

WESTERN CIRCUIT.

HAMPSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at WINCHESTER.

The beds are all on crib bedfteads. The gaol was clean. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners was painted on a board, and hung in the court, by order of the juftices; but, there is no bath. The chapel is very low and inconvenient.

1779,	March 1,	Debtors	12.	Felons	&c.	26.

1782,	Feb. 25,	-	-	30.	-	-	-	35.

--	Nov. 2,	33.	-	-	-	28.

# In this city there is no ajjtxe of bread.

Hh	THE

Gloceste r-

SHIRE*

Hampshire.

Digitized by boogie

2J4

APPENDIX.

Hampshire.

THE CHEYNEY COURT.

No alteration. 1779, March 1, Prifoners o.

1782, Feb. 25,	-	-	-	1.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

WINCHESTER. No alteration. There is only day-room for men and women. There were always young women among the prifoners j a girl about thirteen years of age, committed for two years, had been long confined to her bed.

1779, March 1, Prifoners 11.	1782,	Feb.	25,	Prifoners	23.

GOSPORT. No alteration. 1779, March 6, Prifoners 9.

1782, Nov. 6, -	-	- 3. Deferters 2.

ODIAM. Some alteration has been made in the keeper’s houfe, but none for the benefit of prifoners.

1779, March 10, Prifoners 5.	1782,	Nov. 1, Prifoners 4.

NEWPORT in the IJleof Wight. The bridewell for twenty-eight parilbes : and the town gaol, are now both in the old work-houfe, four rooms being appropriated to that purpofe. No bedding: no chimney. There are two keepers, one for the county bridewell, whofe falary is £19 : 15 : o, the other for the gaol, whofe falary is ^3. Neither the a£t for preferving the health of prifoners, nor claufes againft fpirituous liquors are hung up.— The poor are removed to a houfe of indujlryy built in the foreft of	,

near	Newport, for the twenty-nine parilbes or whole ifiand. Eighty acres

• of land ftatute meafure, was a grant from the crown, to the guardians of the poor, March 21, 1772, for nine hundred and ninety-nine years at the yearly rent of ,£8 : 17 : 9.* At my laft vifit there were fixty-five men, a hundred and fifty women, a hundred and fifty-five boys, and a hundred and forty-fix girls. The houfe was neat and clean, and thofe lodging-rooms were frefh which had apertures in the cielings (eighteen inches by

* 16th of Geo. Ill, Cap. LIII.

twelve).

Digitized by

Google

Western Circuit.

HAMPSHIRE.

435

twelve). The women’s fick-ward (twenty-eight feet wide) was quite clean, and the beds were not crowded.*

The principal work of the houfe was making facks, befides there were tailors and fhoe-makers employed. The provifions were good; the girls and boys were clean, a fet of fine healthy children.

The oeconomy of giving them (efpecially the elderly people) no more of their earnings than one penny in the fhilling, is not for the advantage of the houfe.—Here is a fault, (which is common in fuch buildings) that the dining-hall, work-rooms and bed-rooms are all too low.—In the pafiages, &c. of fuch houfes, all expedients fhould be ufed to promote the circulation of air.

1779, March 5, Prifoners o. 1782, Nov. 5, Petty offenders 2.

SOUTHAMPTON.

THE BAR GATE. Sheriff’s Ward. Some alteration in the two rooms : but the fewer was oftenfive. A new keeper, the houfe perfectly clean.

1779, March 3, Debtors 3.	1782,	Feb.	24,	Debtors	2.

THE GAOL. No alteration: the prifon very dirty.

1779, March 3, Prifoner 1.	1782,	Feb.	24. Priloner o.

BRIDEWELL. No alteration. 1779, March 3, Prifoner 1.

1782, Feb. 24, -	-	-	1.	f

* I obferved an excellent contrivance in the windows of the women’s lick-ward. By a fmall hafp in the upper fafh and ftaples in the frames, when the fafh is in part, or entirely down ; a padlock prevents the nurfes or patients putting it immediately up, as they generally do in the county hofpitals, and at Plymouth, and Hajlar, when the medical gentlemen leave the rooms. Dr. Lind told me, that in fummer time he nails fome of the falhcs down.

f I went over the poor-houfe in this town, where there are fome good rules and orders;

I copy the laft (the twenty-fourth). “ That thefe orders be publicly read once a week, that “ no one may pretend to plead ignorance thereof.”—I (hall take this opportunity to make an obfervation refpe&ing the conduft of thefe heufes, which I think of importance. It is well known that the grown-up inhabitants of thefe places will do no more work than they are abfolutely compelled to perform, and are full of contrivances to excufe thcmfelvcs from labour. Their precepts and example cannot fail of having a very mifehievous etfedt upon the children who aflociate with them. On this account, befides a feparation of the different fexes, I would recommend a total feparation of all children above feven years of age, from the adults. The want of this, I am perfuaded, is the rcafon why fo few good and induflrious fervants come out of poor-houfes.

II h 2	PORTS-

Digitized by

Google

Hampshire.

236

APPENDIX.

Hampshire.

Wiltshire.

PORTSMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

The alteration, debtors and felons feparated. Neither the a&for preferving the health of prifoners, nor claufes againft fpirituous liquors hung up.

1779, March 6, Debtors 6. Felons &c. 1.

1782, Nov. 5,	-	-	6.	-	-	-	4.

WILTSHIRE. SALISBURY. The COUNTY GAOL.*

No alteration in the gaol or bridewell. No bath, though fo conveniently fituated for one.—Surgeon, Mr. Curtoys. Salary, £21.

1779, March 1, Debtors 17. Felons &c. 15.

1782, Feb. 22,	-	-	20.	-	-	-	16.

CITY GAOL.

No alteration, but at my laft vifit the lower rooms were let to the military at 2	s.per week.

1779, Feb. 28, Debtor 1. Felon &c.	1.

1782, - 27,	-	-	1.	-	o.	Deferter	1.

Other COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

DEVIZES. The weight of bread allowance, in 1779, was one pound and a half, and in 1782, fourteen ounces. A window is now made in the keeper’s kitchen, which overlooks the court. The prifoners are without employment; the fhutters of the work-room	up.	No	fees	are

demanded of the prifoners; the magiftrates of the county pay the gaoler feven fhillings and eight-pence for each. In 1779, here were three diftra&ed perfons, one man and two women. —In 1782, a weaver who

• When his Majelly parted through this city in 1778, he was pleafed to leave £200 for the difcharge of debtors confined for fums lefs than £50; by which benefattion eleven prifoners were fet at liberty.

had-

Digitized by

Google

Western Circuit.	WILTSHIRE,	&c.	237

had five children was confined for a debt of ioj. Befides the colls Wiltshire. &c. he was charged	10s. 6d.	for bringing to prifon, though only from	,

at feven miles diftance. There was alfo a woman for a debt of is. 31/. colls and fees $s. id. and ior. 6d. for conveyance.

1779, Feb. 27, Debtor 1. Petty offenders 14. Lunatics 3.

178a, March 4,	-	-	5.	-	25.	-	-	-	1.

MARLBOROUGH. No alteration. The keeper’s falary, which was raifed from ^20-to £$oy is to fupply the prifoners with bread, as the county pays for the fees, feven Ihillings and eight pence at the difcharge of every pril'oner. In 1779 I found no prifoners at work. One of them faid, with evident concern, that “ he had been there thirty weeks and had not earned one halfpenny.” In 1782 alfo there was no employment: on alking the prifoners, if they defired to work ; they readily anfwered in the affirmative. One or two faid, their wives had brought them wool, but the keeper would not permit them to fpin it.

1779, Feb. 27, Prifoners 4.

1782, March 4,	-	-	11.	Deferter	1.

DORSETSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at DORCHESTER.	Dorsetshjre.

No alteration, but the wards cleaner than at my former vifits. Aft for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. — By the exertions of Mr. Pitt and the gentlemen of this county, a new gaol is going to be built on the fame ground near the fine llrcam.—Edward Morton Ply dell, Efq. fends each prifoner at Chrillmas fix pence in money, and two pounds of beef. This kind donation has beert continued many years by his father and himfelf. Lord Digby fends at Chrillmas two guineas to this gaol, and one to the county bridewell.

1779, Feb. 6, Debtors 14. Felons &c. 6.

1782, Aug. 3, -	- 17.	- - -	8..

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHERBORNE.

No alteration; but now a furgeon is appointed.—There were twenty-fix. committed to this prifon in 1779;—thirty-one in 1780, and forty-five in 1781.

1779, Feb. 6. Prifoners 2.	1782,	Aug.	2,.	Prifoners	13.

DOR-

Digitized by ^ooQie

2j8

APPENDIX.

Dorsetshire.

Devonshire.

DORCHESTER TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms: the lower one is called the blind	the	other over it is for

debtors, (eleven feet four inches by ten feet and a half, and feven feet two inches high). No chimney : no fewer : no water. Allowance three halfpence in bread. The debtor had been confined in this offenfive room upwards of fourteen weeks; he had eight children, and had not earned a halfpenny.

1782, Aug. 3, Debtor 1. Felons &c. o.

POOLE TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

The floors are boarded, and the walls of the court raifed.*

J782, Nov. 3, No prifoners.

POOLE BRIDEWELL.

The three rooms are made into two. The prefent keeper does not farm the work-houfe; now, both that and the bridewell-rooms are cleaner than at my former viflt.

1782, Nov. 3, One prifoner.

DEVONSHIRE.

HIGH GAOL at EXETER.'

I found the men together encouraging and confirming one another in wickednefs; and the women are obliged to aflociate with them in the daytime. A<51 for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. No bath. No alteration in this crowded and offenfive gaol; yet, as an elegant fhire-hall is now finifhed, may it not be hoped that the gentlemen will turn their thoughts to the gaol, efpecially the proprietor, who (in 1782) liberally fubferibed ^1000 to encourage feamen to enter into his majefly’s fleet? Surgeon now Mr. Walker.

1779>	Jan*	31,	Felons &c.	33.

1782,	July	27,	- - -	25.

1783,	Feb.	2,	- - -	57.

* There is a room or cage, in many market towns, which I do not defcribe, in which drunken or riotous perfons, are confined for a night, before they are taken to a mngiftrate. One of the largcft, eighteen feet ancFa' half by feven and a half, (called Saliflury) is in Poole.

SHERIFF’S

Digitized by

Google

Western Circuit. .

DEVONSHIRE.

239

SHERIFF’S WARD, EXETER.

No alteration. One debtor, on attachment from the court of chancery, in 1779, had continued here from May 1758, who would not take the benefit of the infolvent afts, but at my laft vifit he was dead. There is ftill an older prifoner,	Grace	Hooper, whofe warrant	of commitment is dated Nov. 30, 1741.

1779, Jan. 31, Debtors 36.	1782,	July	27,	Debtors	23.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at EXETER.

Soon after my^ vifit in 1775, the furgeon and two or three prifoners died of the gaol-fever : but in 1779, I found the prifon repaired and improved : the men and women are feparated ; but all are unemployed. No bath.

1779, Feb. 5, Prifoners 27.	1782,	July	28,	Prifoners	43.

EXETER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration. One woman fick, having been confined three years in the clofe ward on the felons fide. Neither the aft for preferving the health of prifoners, nor claufes	againft fpirituous liquors	hung	up.

1779,	Jan*	31*	Debtors	2.	Felons	&c.	2.

1782,	July	28,	-	-	3.	- -	-	1.

1783,	Feb.	2,	-	4.	- -	-	3. Deferter	1.

TIVERTON TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms under the town-hall, with a window in each towards the ftreet. Keeper no falary. Fees, 3s. 4^. Licence for beer.

1782, Aug. 1, No prifoners.

TIVERTON TOWN BRIDEWELL.

This was formerly a chapel: it is now an old thatched building, in which there is a work-room, and three fmall rooms below, and three above. In the court there is an old work-fhop and three malt-mills, which have not been ufed for fome time. Keeper’s falary, £8:8:0: fees, 3J. 4 he lives diftant and puts in a deputy; the prifon is dirty. Allowance three halfpence in bread, and half their earnings. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up.

1782, Aug. 1, Prifoners 5.

PLY-

Devonshire.

Digitized by ^ooQie

24°

APPENDIX.

Devonshire.

Cornwall.

PLYMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

No alteration in this offenfive prifon. In one of the rooms (thirteen feet by five feet and a half and fix feet nine inches high, the window only eighteen inches by fourteen and the wall two feet eight inches thick,) at my laft vifit there were two prifoners j one of whom a flu red me, he had been there upwards of feven weeks, and fometimes, with four or five other prifoners, where they were almoft: fuffocated.

1779, Feb. 3, Debtors 1. Felons &c. o.

1782, July 30, -	- 4*	- -	-	4-*

CORNWALL.

COUNTY GAOL at LAUNCESTON.

Here is a new gaol for men-felons, confiding of four cells, a day-room, and a court. Over thefe rooms are the gaoler’s apartments. Adjoining is the old gaol, which is for women-felons. Five hundred pounds of the king’s bounty of two thoufand five hundred pounds, was appropriated to this gaol. Chaplain’s falary is £$o for this and the county gaol at Bodmin.

1779, Feb. 4, Felons &c. 4.

1782, July 31,	-	-	-	o.

1783, Feb. 3,	-	-	-	1.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BODMIN.

1779, Feb. 4, Prifoners 13.

This prifon is now difcontinued, and the prifoners are fent to the new county gaol.

* Near Plymouth is an hofpital for Jick and hurt feamen, different from other royal foundations of this kind, as it confifts of fe.veral detached buildings. In each of them are fix fpacious wards, and every patient has a cradle and bed, feveral of which beds have hair jnattrefTes: thefe cradles (made of oak) are fourteen inches from the floor; fix feet two inches long, and three feet one inch wide in the clear. Thefe may be made of caft-iron, nearly as cheap as oak. I could wifn there were fimilar cradles in all prifons, particularly in the fick-rooms.—I give a plan of this hofpital; omitting two buildings, which I think improperly placed.

SHERIFF'S

Digitized by

Google

Western Circuit.

CORNWALL.

241

SHERIFF’S WARD at BODMIN.

1779, Feb. 4, Debtors 13.

This prifon is now difcontinued, and the debtors are fent to the new county gaol.

COUNTY GAOL at BODMIN.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

T ranfports. Licence,

James Chappie.

£3o.

Debtors, £0 : 17 : 5. Felons, o : 13 : 4.

none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons &c. 1 lb. joz. of bread, and on Sundays half a pound of meat (fee regulations).

Garnilh, Debtors, £0 : 2 : o.

Felons &c. none.

Number of

Debtors. Felons. Petty offenders.

1782, July 31,	-	14.	-	4.	-	8.

CHAPLAIN,

Duty,

Salary,

SURGEON,

Salary,

Rev. Mr. Lethbridge. Saturday.

(fee Launcejlon).

Mr. Hamley.

£3°-

This new gaol is built on a fine eminence, at a little diftance from the town, where there is a conftant current of water. Here is a good houfe for the gaoler, in which there are apartments for the mailer-fide debtors, and a chapel. There are feparate rooms and courts for each of debtorSy of felonsy and alfo of petty offenders or bridewell prifonersj and each prifoncr has a feparate lodging-room (about eight feet two inches by five feet eight inches, and feven feet and a half high), which is furnilhed with a bedllead, ftraw-bed, two blankets and a coverlet.—-There are two rooms for an infirmary, and under them three condemned cells. In two of the courts

I i	are

Digitized by

Google

Cornwall.

Remarks.

242

APPENDIX.

Cornwall.

are baths.—In the centre of the gaoler’s houfe there is a turret with an alarm-bell and clock.—The men who are confined for petty offences, are employed in fawing and polifhing ftone, and (as they have the county allowance) have only one fixth of what they earn. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors are hung up. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners is not hung up, but the gaol is kept very neat and clean.—By a fpirited exertion, the gentlemen of this county have erefted a monument of their humanity, and attention to the health and morals of prifoners.*

Here were committed from Jan. 30, 1780, to July 27, 1782, Debtors 75, Felons &c. 92, Petty offenders 94.

The following table of fees and regulations were printed and hung up, though not figned.

A Table of Fees and Rates, propofed to be taken by the Head Gaoler and Turnkeys,

at Bodmin.

From debtors. Firft Clafs.

Every debtor voluntarily going into the mailer’s ward, to pay the keeper at entrance. To the turnkeys,	------

To keeper at difeharge,	-

To the turnkeys,	-

Every debtor lodging in the mailer’s houfe, a bed to himfelf, per week.

Two fuch debtors in a bed each,	-

Every debtor in mailer’s houfe, bringing his own bed for lodging-room,

SECOND CLASS.

Every debtor lodged over the arcades, to the keeper at entrance.

To turnkeys,	------

To keeper at difeharge,	-

To turnkeys,	-

Every fuch debtor over the arcades lodged in the keeper’s bed and room to himfelf, per week,	-

Two fuch debtors in a bed, each per week,	-

Common debtors having only ftraw, mattrafs, or their own bed, to keeper at difeharge,	------

To turnkeys,	------

£. S. D. 034

o 1	6

068

026

026

o 1	3

013

026

010

050

020

016

009

060

020

• I beg leave here to pay my acknowledgments to John Call, Efq. a worthy magiftrate of this county, who has taken unwearied pains in this bufinefs, for the prefent of his very elegant drawing and plan of this prifon.

DEBTORS.

Digitized by

Google

Western Circuit.

CORNWALL.

*43

DEBTORS IN GENERAL.

For figning every certificate to obtain a fuperfedeas, or a rule, or order of court. For copy of fheriff’s warrant, if demanded,	-

For regiflering any declaration againft prifoner,	-

For discharge of every debtor on compofition, or by any aft of infolvency, or for want of profecution, (of which 2s, 5d. is to be the turnkey’s fee)

From felons.

For every felon acquitted and difcharged,	-

For every perfon bailed out, or difcharged, for which the fee is not paid by the county,	-	-	-	-	-

For every convift difcharged,	-	-	-

From Perfons committed to bridewell.

For every perfon difcharged from bridewell,	...

£■  O	s.  1	D.  6
O	1	0
O	1	0
0	*7	S
O	*3	4
O	13	4
O	>3	4
O	«3	4

Cornwall.

Articles, Regulations, and Allowances, eftablifhed for the Gaol, Bridewell, and Sheriff’s

Ward, at Bodmin.

I.	No	garnifh or other exaftions at entrance permitted to be taken.

II.	No	abufe, ill-treatment, or affray, to be fuffered between the prifoners; if fuch do

happen, the aftors and abettors to be punifhed at the diferetion of the head gaoler, by clofer confinement', harder labour, or reduced allowance.

III.	All forts of games for money or liquors, are flriftly prohibited, and mull be prevented,

and innocent exercifes and fuch as are conducive to health only to be allowed.

IV.	Irons to be provided at the county expence, and kept ready, but not ufed, except they

are abfolutely neceffary for punifhment or fecurity.

V.	Mafter or principal debtors of property, are to be lodged at their own requeft and choice,

in the keeper’s houfe, paying the eftablifhed rates and no more, for rooms, beds, and diet.—Ordinary debtors are to be lodged over the arcades in beds of the keepers, or their own, according to their choice or ability of paying the eftablifhed rates.

VI.	Every man felon, and bridewell criminal, fhall be allowed every day one pound and

three ounces of good wholefome bread, and every woman felon, and bridewell criminal, one pound of the fame fort of bread, unlefs fuch allowances fhall be reduced by order of the head gaoler for ill-behaviour.

VII.	All felons who receive a daily allowance, fhould be kept to fome work. All perfons

committed to hard labour fhall be flriftly kept thereto; and all other criminals in bridewell fhould have fome employment. The ftated time of labouring to be ten hours per day in fummer, and eight hours in winter. The keeper to have one fixth part of the earnings, the perfons labouring one fixth part for their own ufe, befides the full amount of their extra work, and the remaining two third parts to go to the county ftock, towards the expence of their maintenance.

VIII.	The head gaoler to ring his bell at the hour of locking-up, which is to be at fix o’clock

in the evening, from the firft day of Oftober to the thirty-firft of March, and at

I i a	eight

Digitized by k^ooQle

244

Cornwall.

APPENDIX.

eight o’clock during the rell of the year. To ring alfo at opening the cells, which is to be at fun rifing in the morning, from the firit of November to the thirty-firft of March, and at fix o’clock the reft of the year. No perfon to be fuffered to go into the night cells in the day time, unlcfs to wafh or clean them ; the doors and windows to be kept open when the prifoners are let out, except the doors at the foot of each flaircafe, which are always to be fhut.

IX.	The night cells to be cleaned by one of the prifoners daily, and wafhed once a week, or oftner, if thought neceifary, for which mops and brooms will be allowed. No filth of any kind to be left in the courts, nor any flicks, flones, or other obflruttions thrown down the houfes of office, under fevers punifhment to the offender, and indulgence to the informer.

X.	The chaplain will read prayers and preach every Saturday, government faft, and thankf-

giving days, in the chapel, at which all perfons in the feveral wards muft attend, (if in a condition fo to do) otherwife they will be punilhed at the diferetion of the gaoler.

XI.	All the felon and bridewell delinquents, who attend divine fervice the preceding

Saturday, and behave well, fhall have, befides the eflablifhed allowance of bread, half a pound of meat, at the county expence, made into broth, every Sunday for dinner.

XII.	It is requelled and recommended to the juftices at Bodmin feffions, the grand jury at the

affizes, and every jullice a&ing in the commiffion of the peace, to infpedl, as often as poffible, the gaol and bridewell, and to enquire into the treatment of the prifoners, and the dillribution of their refpe&ive allowances.

The fheriff and his deputy, it is to be hoped, will often vifit, and enquire into the ftate and treatment of the felons, as well as the debtors.	^

XIII.	The head gaoler to keep a book of regifler for each ward, in which he is to enter the

following particulars of every perfon who fhall be committed to his cuftody. — Date of confinement — Perfons name — Place of abode — By whom confined — For what offence — Stature, complexion, &c. — Where difeharged or how difpofed of — Remarks on behaviour, &c.

FALMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1783, Feb. 5, Prifoners o. Feb. 13, Prifoners 2.

TRURO TOWN GAOL.

No alteration. 1783, Feb. 4, One prifoner..

LOSTWITHIEL GAOL for debtors.

No alteration. 1782, July 30, Prifoners 2.

PENRYN

Digitized by ^ooQle

Western Circuit.

CORNWALL,

245

PENRYN BOROUGH GAOL.	Cornwall.

Two rooms adjoining to the town-hall, about feven feet and a half fquare; a chimney in each. The conftable is keeper.

1783, Feb. 6, No prifoners.

PENRYN PRISON for debtors.

No alteration. Keeper now pays rent £ 1 2: o. Licence for beer.

1783, Feb. 6, One prifoner.

SOMERSETSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL AT IVELC FI ESTER.	Somerset-

SHIRE.

Thomas Hayes, who was committed by order of the Ecclefiaftical Court, was releafed by a claufe inferted in the infolvent a£t. No infirmary: no bath, though conveniently fituated near the river. The adt for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. This gaol is too fmall for the general number of' prifoners. Chaplain, Mr. Pearjo; falary now £30. Surgeon, Mr. Palmer 1 falary now £16. The following table was hung up.

1779, Feb. 7, Debtors 33. Felons &c. 15.

1782, Aug. 2,	-	-	38.	-	-	-	14.

Somerfetj to wit. At the general quarter fellions of the peace held at the city of Wells in and for the faid county of Somerfet, the 15th day of January in the year of our Lord 1760, before John Brickdale, the Honourable George Somerville, the Rev. Thornas Camplin Do£fr>r of Laws, William Rodbardj John Pinckman, Thomas Gunjlon, Charles Strangwaysj John Somers, Efquircs, and other their companions, juftices of our lord the king, afligned to keep the peace of our faid lord the king, and alfo to hear and determine divers felonies trefpaffes and other mifdemeanors done or perpetrated in the fame county and fo forth.

A Table of Rates and Fees fettled and eftablifhed at this faid general quarter fellions of the peace, allowed to be taken by the gaoler and keepers within their rcfpe&ive'gaols or prifons in and for the faid county, together with rules and orders to be by them refpe&ively obferved and kept by virtue of an a£t of parliament for that purpofe made in the 32d year of his prefent Majefty’s reign.

To a Bailiffe:	£*	S.	D.

For every night’s lodging after twenty-four hours from the arreft	-	004

For every day’s diet after the faid twenty-four hours -	-	-	010

For

Digitized by ^ooQle

24 6

APPENDIX.

Somerset-

shire.

For every other expence, the guard and every charge included, for the whole time he fhall remain in cuftody

To the Keepers of the publick houfes of corre&ion in the faid County :

For the difeharge of every prifoner (except in cafes where the court lhall think it fhould not be paid)	-

To the turnkey	-	-	-

For the prifoners bed and bedding weekly if found by the keeper if finglc—if double each pay only one half	-

To the Keeper of the common gaol in and for the faid County:

For the difeharge of every debtor and felon (except in cafes where the court fhall think it ought not to be paid)	-

To the turnkey	-

For every debtor's lodging fingly weekly, including the ufe of a bed and bedding If a bed and bedding of his own	-

If he lodges in the outfide wards then only weekly -If a bed of his own, nothing for it.

Rules and Orders to be obferved as follows.

Prifoners to be carefully (hut up every evening at iun-fet ; to be let out every morning between Michaelmas and Lady-day at eight of the clock in the morning, and between Lady-day and Michaelmas at fix of the clock in the morning.

To have liberty to buy their own vi&uals and drink in or out of the prifon.

The felons to have ten pound weight of clean dry wheaten ftraw every week.

Each felon to have a two penny loaf of houfehold bread according to the affize of bread for the time being each day.

Felons men and women to be locked up feparately from each other every night.

A fick felon to be kept feparate from the reft as conveniently as poffible.

The whole prifon, bog-houfe, finks and gutters to be kept as clean as poflible.

John Brickdale.	TV. Rodbard.	J. Somers.	Tho. Gun/}on.

This is a true copy of the original filed with the records of the county of Somerfet. Examined this 2d day of May 1782, by me

Geo. JVarrjy Deputy clerk of the peace of the faid county of Somerfet.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.^

TAUNTON. No alteration, but the chaplain’s falary reduced to £20. All the prifoners were in irons, at my vifit in 17795 and one man and two women at my laft vifit. Still no employment.

1779, Sept. 2, Prifoners 10.	1782,	Aug.	1, Prifoners 9.

SHEPTON-MALLET. Now no chaplain : he was difmifled for negleft of duty. The prifon is white-wafhed twice a year. Still no employment. 1779, Feb. 7, Prifoners 19.	1782,	Aug.	2, Prifoners 12.

TAUN-

036

0 13	4

010

010

o 13	4

o	1	o

016 010 006

Digitized by

Google

Western Circuit.

SOMERSETSHIRE, &c.

247

TAUNTON TOWN GAOL.

This prifon, called the	Mayor's ward,confifts of two	infecure and offenfive

rooms, in an old houfe rented by the keeper at £10 per annum. No court: no fewer: no water acceflible to prifoners. Keeper, no falary. Fees, 6s. %d. No table. Licence for beer.

1782, Aug. 1, Prifoners 2, and one prifoner of war.

BRISTOL CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration. There is no proper feparation of the men and women j nor of fines &c. Here is a convenient bath; but the pumps are not in order. Surgeon now Mr.	Safford.

1779.	Feb.	8,	Debtors	44.	Felons	&c.	21.

----	Sept.	1,	- -	47.	-	-	-	9.

1782,	Mar.	1,	33.	-	32.	Pirates	10.

BRISTOL CITY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. The prifon dirty: ftill no employment.

1779, Feb. 8, Prifoners 8.	1782,	March	i, Prifoners 19.

BATH CITY GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, Feb. 10, Debtors io. Offenders 2.

1782, Feb. 28,	-	-	3.	-	-	5.

BRIDGEWATER TOWN GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, Sept. 2, No prifoners.

NORTHERN CIRCUIT.

YORKSHIRE.

COUNTY' GAOL, YORK CASTLE.

The river water is brought into the caftle-yard; but there is no water in the felons court. No bath. The grand jury prefented the gaol, and determined,

that

Digitized by

Google

Somerset-

shire.

Yorkshire.

148

APPENDIX.

Yorkshire.

that a feparation of felons> and alfo rooms for the fick were neceflary. At my laft vifit, an additional building, oppofite to the new Ihire-hall, was nearly finilhed.*

1779,	May 7,	Debtors	76.	Felons	&c.	14.

----	June 28,	- -	73.	16.

1782,	Jan. 27,	- -	69.	-	-	-	13.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS. WEST-RIDING, WAKEFIELD.

No alteration, but the infirmary finilhed, confuting of two rooms arched with brick, twenty-one feet and a half by feventeen, and ten feet high.

1779, May 13, Prifoners 20. Imprefled Men 4.

1782, Jan. 26,	-	-	26.

NORTH-RIDING, THIRSK.

No alteration.

1779, June 28, Prifoners 2, and 1 Lunatic. 1782, March 23, Prifoners 9.

EAST-RIDING BEVERLY.

No alteration. 1779, May 7, Prifoner 1.	1782,	Jan.	29,	Prifoner	1.

BEVERLY TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, May 7, Debtors 2.	1782, Jan. 29, Debtors o. No criminals.

HALL-GARTH, for debtors.

No alteration. 1779, May 7, Prifoner 1.	1782,	Jan.	29,	Prifoners	2.

YORK CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

Water is now laid into this prifon. There is a new room for prifoners committed on fufpicion of felony, thirty-one feet by fourteen, with oppofite

• The public-fpirited Gentlemen of this County, have fhewn themfelves patticularly attentive to the improvement of this branch of police. I have to return my acknowledgments for the polite notice they were pleafed to take of my fuggeftions relative to the ftate of their county gaol.

and

Digitized by

Google

Northern Circuit.

YORKSHIRE.

249

and lofty windows, and a chimney. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners, painted on a board, is hung up in the debtors hall. Gaoler’s falary now £10.

1779, May 7, Debtors 12. Felons &c. 2.

1782,	Jan. 27,	-	-	5.	-	-	-	3.

YORK CITY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. Some prifoners were employed in beating or pounding tile-' (herds for the bricklayers. One chaldron of coals annually from the corporation. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up.

1779, May 8, Prifoners 4.

---- June 28,	-	-	8.

1782, Jan. 27,	-	-	3.

St. P E T E R’s GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, May 8, Debtors 2. Felon &c. 1.

----	June 28,	-	-	5.	-	-	-	1.

1782,	Jan. 28.	-	-	2.	-	-	-	o.

RICHMOND GAOL.

No alteration. In the table of fees, dated Aug. 17, 1671 the feveral articles for the commons and committments of knights, efquires, gentlemen and yeomen, are the fame as thofe in the caftle at York. The following is not in the table at the caftle; “ And be it further ordered that every perfon or perfons of what degree eftate or condition whofoever they be, being or remaining a prifoner within the faid gaols that (hall ufe or frequent any unlawful fwearing, railing, reafoning or other undecent conference of any matter whatfoever, at any tipie or times whilft he is a prifoner, that every fuch perfon or perfons fo offending, (hall forfeit for every fuch fault the fum of I2<£. to be levied upon his goods, and to be bellowed upon the poor men and \vomen in the low gaol or prifon, or, every fuch perfon fo offending to be committed to the faid low prifon, at the difcretion of the keeper of the gaol or his deputy there.”

1779, May 8, Debtors 6. Petty Offenders i.

1782, Nov. 19,	-	13.	-	-	2.

Kk	RIPON

Digitized by

Google

Yorkshire.

250

APPENDIX.

Yorkshire,

%

RIPON LIBERTY GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, May 8, Debtors j. 1782, Nov. 19, Debtors o.

RIPON GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, May 8, Debtor 1. Petty Offender 1.

1782, Nov. 19, -	- o.	- - - - o.

KNARES BROUGH PRISON,

For Debtors in the Honour or Foreft of	.

The largeft room is now boarded, has a chimney, and the window glazed.

1779, May 8, Prifoners o. 1782, Nov. 20, Prifoner 1.

KNARESBROUGH PRISON, for Town Debtors.

At my laft vifit the door-way was altered, the floor paved with flag-ftones, and the drain covered.

1779, May 8,	1782,	Nov.	20,	No prifoners.

KNARESBROUGH TOWN GAOL.

Now arched with brick, enlarged, and made more convenient.

1779, May 8,	1782, Nov. 20, No prifoners.

DONCASTER TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, June 27, Prifoners o. 1782, April 4, Debtor 1.

BRADFORD PRISON,

For Debtors from the Court of Requefts, for Halifax,	,&c. &c.

In 1779, the prifon confided of four rooms, and a work-room. Court not fecure : no water. Deputy keeper paid rent : 5 : o. a year for his houfe to the keeper; who paid rent to the clerk of the court, by whom be was appointed. Prifoners were difeharged at the end of three calendar months. Fees, 5 s.See the Aft.*—At my laft vifit this prifon was difufed.

• 17th Geo. III. Cap. XV.

and

Digitized by

Google

Northern Circuit.

YORKSHIRE.

251

and another occupied at the back of the keeper’s public houfe. It confifts of four rooms about twelve feet fquare. Keeper's falary £20, and he receives £5 rent for the prifon. One of the prifoners whofe debt was only 4 had five children, and he faid, he never before had been in prifon.

By a new Aft 20th of Geo. III. Cap. LXV. (on a plan more humane than the former,) the court-fees are reduced, and confinement is only fixty days.

1779, May 13, Prifoners 12.	1782, Nov. 21, Prifoners 7.

LEEDS TOWN GAOL.

No alteration, but the windows are now double barred, fo that no files can be conveyed to the prifoners.

1779,	May	13,	Prifoners	o.

1782,	Jan.	26,	-	-	-	o.

---	Nov.	20,	-	-	-	1.

KINGSTON upon HULL, TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration ; the aft for preferving the health of prifoners is hung up. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up.

1779, May 7, Debtors 8. Felons &c. 1.

1782, Jan. 30,	-	-	7.	-	-	-	4.

KINGSTON upon HULL, BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. 1779, May 7, Prifoners 11. Lunatics 2.

1782, Jan. 30, - - -	6.	- -	-

SHEFFIELD PRISON, for debtors.

No alteration. At my laft vifit one of the debtors, a cutler, was at work ; his debt was only is. 3d. and the charges 17 6d.

1779, May 14, Prifoners 8.	1782, Jan. 25, Prifoners 3.

SHEFFIELD TOWN GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, May	14,	1782,	Jan. 25,	No	prifoners.

# The neatnefs and cleanlinefs of the poor-houfe, do the gentlemen of this town much credit; therefore, I was the more furprifed at fuch total inattention to the houfe of corredion, that they permitted one of the moft profane lunatics, Mr. 5—h, to continue there fo many years.

.	K k 2	BATLEY

Digitized by

Google

Yorkshire.

25 2

APPENDIX.

Yorkshire.

Durham.

BAT LEY PRISON, for debtors.

No alteration, but a new table of fees dated 26th of July 1776, fimilar to the former. The keeper is a bailiff. Licence for beer and wine. He pays the chief bailiff £21 a year ; and rent	£60.

1779, May 13, Prifoners 18.	1782,	Nov.	21,	Prifoners	25.

HALIFAX PRISON, for debtors.

No alteration. Here is diftributed to the prifoners jj. 4 in bread the firft Saturday in every month, from a legacy of Mr. Jonathan Turnery who died about 1724. This is mentioned in	,	&V.	of	Halifax,	4to.

1775,	P- 645.	“ Jonathan Turner of , butcher, left by will	forty

“ fhillings yearly to the poor prifoners in Halifax jail, to be given them in “ bread. This annuity is charged on fome houfing in	,in Halifax,

<f or the flreet leading from the north end of South-gate to Bull-green.” Thefe houfes are in the poffeffion of Mr. Waterhoufe, who conftantly pays the legacy, and his name almoft enfures the continuance of the benefaction.

1779, May 13, Prifoners 5.	1782,	Nov.	21,	Prifoners	7.

DURHAM.

COUNTY GAOL at DURHAM.

«

No alteration. At feveral of my vifits there were boys between thirteen and fifteen years of age, confined with the mod profligate and abandoned.—The bifhop humanely filed bills in Chancery, and recovered the legacies of bifhop Crewe and bifhop Wood. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up.—I always found numbers of the townfmen drinking in the tap-room.

1779, June 29, Debtors 14. Felons &c. 22. Deferter 1.

1782, March 24,	-	20.	-	19.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at DURHAM.

The houfe was clean; a pump now in the prifon; the prifoners were at work, and their looks befpoke the attention of a good keeper, who now refides

in

Digitized by

Google

Northern Circuit.

D U R H A M, &c.

253

in the prifon. Salary, £30 a year, and £9:2:0. from the rents of the adjoining houfes. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up.

1779, June 29, Prifoners 9.	Lunatics 3.

1782, March 24, ---8.	- - 1.

NEWCASTLE upon TYNE.

NEWCASTLE TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

The gaoler has now a licence for beer and wine. The aCt for preferving the health of prifoners painted on a board, is hung up both on the debtors and felons fide. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up.—A palifaded wall is ereCted at a little diftance from the felons window, to prevent files, &c. being conveyed to them.

1779, Junc 3°> Debtors 13. Felons &c. 4.

1782, Mar. 25,	-	12.	-	-	1.

A BRIDEWELL at NEWCASTLE.

A new building is now added, confifting of fix rooms with chimneys : three of them on the ground-floor, feventeen feet by twelve, and arched with brick. In one room, the men beat hemp and flax by a machine. The walls of the court not being fecure, the prifoners have no accefs to it. Allowance, two pence a day and firing. Keeper, a fergeant at mace: he has no falary but the profit of the prifoners work, whom I always found employed.—The water is lately brought near the prifon. Where prifoners are always locked up, there (hould be water and a fink in each apartment, as I have feen in foreign houfes of correction. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up.

1779, June 30, Prifoners.7.	1782, March 25, Prifoners 5.

A small GAOL at NEWCASTLE,	Tower the Clofe.

No alteration.

1779, June 30, Prifoner 1.	1782,	March 25, Prifoners 2.

Another PRISON at NEWCASTLE.

The old houfe of correction called the	two	rooms,	one	for	men

and the other for women, and a dungeon now not ufed: no court: no water.

Allowance,

Digitized by

Google

Durham.

Newcastle.

254	APPENDIX.
Newcastle.	Allowance, twopence a day and coals. Salary-£15. Fees ij.—Criminals are firft committed to the Tower in the cloje for a day or two, and if not dif-charged are removed hither, or to the other prifons.  1776, Jan. 15, Prifoncr 1. 1782, March 25, Prifoners 2.
North um-berland.  •	NORTHUMBERLAND.  COUNTY GAOL at MORPETH.  No alteration; but the a£t for prefcrving the health of prifoners painted on a board, was hung up in the debtors hall or chapel. No bath.  1779, July 1, Debtors 10. Felons &c. 6.  1782, Mar. 25, - 15. - 4-  COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MORPETH.  No alteration. Claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper now refides at a diftance.  1779, July i) Prifoners 3. 1782, March 25, Prifoners 6.  BERWICK upon TWEED. .  No alteration.  1779, July i> Debtors 2. Felons &c. 0. Imp re fled Men 8.  1782, Mar. 26, - - 2. - 0.
	c umber’land.

Cumberland.	COUNTY	GAOL	AT	CARLISLE.

'	Here are fome improvements. The felons have now a feparate court. Two rooms over the felons wards, which have been ufed as tap-rooms, feem to be intended for the women’s ward : but I found that and four women lodged in one of thefe rooms. In the court, near the pump, there is the too  common

Digitized by ^ooQie

Northern Circuit.

CUMBERLAND, &c.

255

common nuifance of a dunghill, which feems to have been accumulating for a Cumberland. year or two. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. No bath. The prifon not white-waffied for three years.

1779, May 10, Debtors 32. Felons &c. 21.	prifoners 12.*

1782, Sep. 1,	- - 30.	-	-	9..

CARLISLE CITY GAOL.

Lately repaired.

1779, May 10, Debtors 2 Men, 1 Woman.

1782, Sep. 1, No prifoners.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COCKERMOUTH.

No alteration. The infecurity of this bridewell is the reafon (I fuppofe) that many for fmall offences are fent to the county gaol.

1779, May 10, No prifoners.

WESTMORLAND.

COUNTY GAOL at APPLEBY.	Westmor-

LAND*

No alteration. Neither the aft for preferving the health of prifoners, nor claufes againft fpirituous liquors are hung. No bath.

1779, May 9, Debtors 8. Felons &c. 2.

1782, Sep. 2,	-	-	8.	-	-	-	o.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

APPLEBY. No alteration. 1779, May. 9, Prifoners o.

1782, 'Sep. 2,	-	1.

KENDAL. No alteration. 1779, Mayn, Prifoners o. %	i782>	Sep.	3,	-	-	1.

KENDAL TOWN GAOL.

No alteration. 1779, May 11,	1782,	Sep.	3,	No	prifoners.

• See page 140.

LANCA-

Digitized by ^.ooQie



APPENDIX.

Lancashire.

LANCASHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, LANCASTER CASTLE.

I had the pleafure to find fix cells made in the upper	ten feet by fix

feet eight inches, each having an aperture about two feet by one and a half; one of thefe cells has an infcription over the door, denoting, that it is appropriated to drunken and riotous debtors. There are two good rooms fitted up for an infirmary in the dungeon tower. At my lalt vifit, here were three new cells (ten feet by fix and a half), having two doors to each, one of which was iron-latticed. Here was alfo a feparate clofet for women, which is generally wanted in gaols. The debtors rooms were white-walhcd, and cafements put in their windows j and the yard lowered and paved. The whole gaol is kept very clean. The a£t for preferving the health of prifoners, and the claufes againft fpirituous liquors hung up very confpicuoufly. Surgeon now Mr	.fVright. Salary, £10	: 10	: o.	An order for	attending	divine fervice

is hung up in the (hire-hall.—Much good, I hope, may be expelled from the exertions now making by the gentlemen of this county, for the further improvement of their prifons.

In the table of fees, the two laft articles were erafed, and there is now inferted ; Crown prifoners to pay no fees. John	Gaoler.

1779, May 11, Debtors 7 2.Felons &c.u. ImprelTed Men 17. 1782, Sept. 3,	-	-	57.	-	- - 17-

At the general quarter feflion of	the peace held at Lancafler	in	and	for	the faid	county

palatine of Lancafer, the 15th day of	July	in the feventeenth	year	of	king	the

third’s reign j whereas, it appears to this court 'on the reprefentation of the keeper of the

goal or the cafllc of Lancafer, that feveral prifoners in his cuflody, being members of the

Church of England and h iving no lawful excufe, make a common pradlice of abfenting

themfelvcs from divine fcrvice performed in the faid goal, and mifbehaving themfelves

during fervice. It is therefore ordered by this court, that if any prifoner or prifoners

confined in the faid caftle (except Roman Catholics and Quakers) and having no lawful

excufe, fhall abfent him her or themfelves, from attending divine fervice within the faid

cafllc, or fhall in any way mifbehave, fuch prifoner or prifoners fhall immediately be

deprived of the county allowance until further orders to the contrary. And it is

further ordered, that the treafurer of the faid county (lock, fhall immediately upon receiving

a complaint from the faid keeper againft any prifoner or prifoners to ftrike his her or their

name or names out of his books, and to forbear to pay fuch prifoner or prifoners any more

money until further order.	^

1	Kenyon.	vr	n

Digitized by

Google

LANCASHIRE.

Northern Circuit.

-57

N. B. Whereas many of the debtors of late have abfented themfelves from attending divine Lancashire. fervice, this is therefore to give them notice, that for the future the above rule of court will be ftri&ly put in execution.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

PRESTON. No alteration; but the prifon cleaner, and the prifoners fpinning worfted. The keeper was obliged to pay £50 falary to his predeceffor, who died in 1780; now his falary is augmented to ^80 in lieu of the tap.

To this prifon, in 1778, there were committed one hundred and twelve prifoners, viz.felony, fourteen; — baftardy, fifteen; — mifdemeanors, forty-fix ; —vagrants, fifteen; —deferters, eighteen; — debtors, four. In 1779, there were committed one hundred and thirty-three; — in 1780, ninety-eight;—in 1781, one hundred and fifteen; — in 1782, to Sep. 9, eighty-eight.*

1779, May 12, Prifoners 17. Imprelfed Men 5.

1782, Sept. 3, Debtors 2. Petty offenders 17.

MANCHESTER. No alteration; but the aft for preferving the health of prifoners, and the claufes againft fpirituous liquors hung up. The employment of the prifoners is fpinning candlewick at three halfpence a pound, the keeper being a chandler. His falary is raifed to £80 in of the tap. In the front of the prifon is a Hone with an aperture into a box, having this infcription; “Sick, and in prifon,

Matt. x:;v. 43.

1779, May 12, Prifoners 11. Imprelfed Men 6.

1782, Nov. 22,	-	-	14.

LANCASTER TOWN GAOL.

A room juft finifhed at the new town-hall, (fifteen feet and a half by eleven and a half), in which, there is a window and fire-place.

1782, Sept. 3, No prifoners.

* In thefe numbers are not included the corporation prifoners, who are confined here, there being now no town gaol.

LI

LIVER-

Digitized by v^ooQie

APPENDIX.

258

Lancashire.

LIVERPOOL* BOROUGH GAOL.

This gaol was much cleaner than at my firft vifit: the court paved: the aft for preferving the health of prifoners hung up: but the unhealthy dungeons ftill in ufe. The late furgeon Mr. Shertc whofe falary was £10, (which is now paid to the difpenfary), informed me, that many more had the gaol-fever in 1775,.than I mentioned in my publication. The gaoler now is Mr. Thomas Lyon: his falary,	£10. I was told that the debtors	aboutChriftmas

receive £10, left by a lady, of which there is no memorial in the gaol.

1779, Nov. jo, Prifoners 25. Defcrters 2. Imprefled Men 2.

1782, Sept. 5, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 14. Deferter -	1.

LIVERPOOL BRIDEWELL.

This prifon was built in 1776. The men and women have feparate rooms, courts, &c. The women have fix rooms below, and the fame number above: the men have four rooms below, and four above. Thefe are twelve feet by ten, and eight feet nine inches high; are furnifhed with bedfteads, blankets and coverlets; but are too clofe, having no window, only an aperture in the door about nine inches fquare, and another near the cieling. They have a work-room, twenty feet by fixteen feet nine inches. Near this room in the men’s court is a ■pump, to which the women are tied every week and receive difeipline. In this court is alfo a bath, with a new and Angular contrivance. At one end of it was a ftandard for a long pole, at the extremity of which was fattened a chair. In this all the females (not the males) at their entrance, after a few queftions, were placed, with a flannel fhift on, and underwent a thorough ducking, thrice repeated—an ufe of a bath which I dare fay the legiflature never thought of, when in their late aft they ordered baths with a view to cleanlinefs and preferving the health of prifoners j not for the exercile of a wanton and dangerous kind of feverity. But I was glad to find this ufe of the bath has been difeontinued fince my vifit in 1779. The fevere weekly difeipline of the women in the men's court is ftill continued.—This prifon is kept remarkably clean by the matron. All the prifoners were employed in

* The Gentlemen of this Corporation will pleafe to accept my grateful acknowledgments, for the honour done me in prefenting me with the freedom of the town.

picking

Digitized by

Google

Northern Circuit.

LANCASHIRE,

259

picking oakum. Allowance, two pennyworth of bread a day. Keeper’s falary, Lancashire.

£30. Matron, j^io. Turnkey, 6s. a week, an apartment and firing.

1779, Nov. 30, Prifoners 8.	1782,	Sep. 5, Prifoners 12.

WARRINGTON TOWN BRIDEWELL.

No alteration, but the aperture or window clofed up.

1779, Dec. 30, No prifoners.

CHESTER CIRCUIT.

CHESHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, CHESTER CASTLE.	Cheshire.

The county has built two good rooms for the gaoler, and fitted up one room for a chapel; but there is no reparation of the men and women felons in the day time, and no infirmary or bath, which are peculiarly necellary in fo clofe a prifon. The ad for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. Chaplain now Rev. Mr. Willan. Salary, £30. Surgeon, Mr.	Salary, none :

he makes a bill.

1779, Aug. 27, Debtors 19. Felons &c. 4.

1782,	May 24,	-	-	22.	-	5. Deferter 1.

1783,	July 25,	-	-	33-	-	-	-	15-

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MIDDLEWICH.

Allowance to each prifoner, fix pounds of houfehold bread a week : fcales and weights provided by the county. A chaplain is appointed, the Rev.

Mr. Leigh. Salary, ^20. Duty, three times a week. Surgeon, Mr.

At my two lafl: vifits the prifoners were all without employment.

1779, Aug. 28, Prifoners 5.	1782,	Nov. 23, Prifoners 14.

CHESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

I found the men felons night-room (very injudicioufly, not to fay cruelly) funk feveral feet.* To prevent the prifoners from being fuffocated, for want

• There feems to have been the fame negleft here of a daufe in a late aft, that is noted in . page Z02 ; which could fcarcely have happened, had the aft been hung up as therein direfted.

L 1 2	of

Digitized by

Google

APPENDIX.

260

Cheshire.

.of air, two leaden pipes of about an inch diameter, are laid in from the gateway. No infirmary, nor any proper feparation of the fexes.

1779, Aug. 27, Debtors 7. Felons &c. 5.

1782, May 24,	-	5.	I.

CHESTER CITY BRIDEWELL.

No alteration.

1779, Aug. 27, Prifoner 1.	1782,	May 24, Prifoners 3. Imprefled Man 1.

MACCLESFIELD PRISON

Is the property of Lord Cbolmondeley.—No alteration. Keeper pays rent 18.

1782, Nov. 23, Debtor 1.

MACCLESFIELD TOWN BRIDEWELL.

No alteration. 1782, Nov. 23, No prifoners.

NANTWICH PRISON, for debtors.

This prifon for the manor or barony of Nantwicb, or IVicb-Malbank, is the property of Lord Cbolmondeley. It confifts of two or three rooms in the keeper’s public houfe.

As the table of fees is of a late date, and fo comprehenfive, I here give the copy.	'

1779, Aug. 28, Prifoners 2.	1782,	Nov.	23, Prifoner 1.

County of	Chejier, to wit. A Table	of Fees, to be taken by fheriffs, under-fheriffs, bailiffs,

or other officers within the county of Chejiermade, fettled and allowed, at the general quarter feffions—held by adjournment at the caftle of	in	and	for	the	faid	county,—

the fifteenth day of April, 1777, and in the 17th—George III. before Sir Thomas Baronet, George Heron, John TojunJhend, Charles	Samuel Barrow, Samuel

Finney, and	Henry Offley Wright,Efquires ; Samuel Alderfey, Robert Hill, and John Baldwin,

Clerks, Juftices—in purfuance of an a£t made in the 32d year of George II.

To the Bailiff for every Arrelt, as under.

For an arreft on an	attachment	for contempt.

For a debt of id.	and under	20/.	...

For a debt of 20/.	and under	30/.	...

For a debt of 30/.	and under	50/.	•*

	S. D.
O	10 0
O	10 0
O	15 0
1	l 6
	For

Digitized by

Google

Chester Circuit.

.

CHESHIRE.

For a debt	of	50/.	and	under	80/.

Foradebtof	80/.	and	under	100/.	-

For a debt	of	100/.	and	under	200/.	-

For a debt	of	200/.	and	under	500/•	....

For a debt	of	500/.	and	under	1000/.	-

For a debt of 1000/. and upwards	-	-	- k

Travelling charges to make fuch arreft, in cafe the arreft be made (except on an attachment for contempt) each mile	-	-	-

£■	s.	D.
1	5	0
I	11	6
2	2	0
Z	12	6
3	3	0
5	S	0
0	0	6

For Attendance on Arreft to be taken as follows (except on an Attachment for

Contempt.)

Where the debt does not exceed 100/. for each day 2/. and each night is.

Where the debt does exceed 100/. and is not 200/. for each day 3/. and each night 3 s.

Where the debt does exceed 200/. for each day 4/. and each night 4s.

Nothing to be taken for attendance unlefs the defendant does not offer good bail in fix hours, or is not difcharged in that time.

For executing every writ of Ca : fa : Ft : ffa : Levari facias, and writ of

poffeffion, or other execution, befides fheriff’s poundage	-	1	1

Travelling charges as in cafe of arreft.

For conducing every prifoner to gaol, or fo far as fuch prifoner fhall be con*

dufled, in his way to gaol, each mile	-	-	-	-01

Houfe expences whilft in cuftody before carrying to gaol (but not on the road) to be allowed after the rate of is. 6d. for every twenty-four hours, and fo in proportion for a lefs time, all expences of prifoners and bailiffs included.

For making every diftrefs for rent, under 20/.	-	-	-05

For 20/. and under 100/.	-	-	-	-	-06

For above 100/.	-	-	-	-	-	010

For attending goods under diftrefs, or taken into execution, for each twenty-four

hours, until the fale is finifhed, one perfon is. 6d. if two perfons	-	o	4

Travelling charges to make fuch diftrefs, and houfe expences, as in cafe of arreft.

No further or other allowance to be taken on account of bailiffs followers, but every bailiff to pay his own followers out of the above fees.

o

o

o

8

6

o

And it is ordered by the faid court, that this table of fees be printed, and immediately difperfed throughout the faid county, by the clerk of the peace thereof. And to the end that no flieriff, under-fheriff, bailiff, or other officer or miniftcr, may plead ignorance of the law, they may hereby take notice, that none of them are to take any other or greater fee or reward than what is above fet forth and allowed, upon the pains contained in the faid a&.

By the Court.

W. JVtddens, Clerk of the peace for the faid county of Chejler.

NANT-

261

Cheshire.

Digitized by k^ooQle

APPENDIX.

262

Cheshire.

Flintshire.

NANTWICH TOWN GAOL.

This prifon (called the round-houfe)was built by the county in 1782. Two rooms and a kitchen for the keeper. For prifoners, a room arched with brick (twelve feet three inches by ten feet two) with a barrack-bedftead : no chimney: no court. Down twelve Heps two dungeons with apertures twelve inches by nine. — The gentlemen feem to have overlooked a claufe in the aft of 14th Geo. III. Cap. XLIII. —to prevent the prifoners from being kept under ground, whenever they can do it conveniently.” The water has been eighteen inches high in thefe dungeons.

1782, Nov. 23, No prifoners.

FLINTSHIRE.

COUNTY	GAOL	at	FLINT.

No alteration, only the allowance reduced to a pound of bread a day each. This was occafioned by the prifoners not being fatisfied with the former kind allowance of ij. 6 d.in bread, and 6 d.in money, per week. The allowance now is ij. weekly in bread, and 6d. in money. There is no work-room, nor employment for petty offenders j nor day-room for felons. The aft for preferring the health of prifoners not hung up: no infirmary : no bath. Gaoler’s falary as keeper of the bridewell now £30. Chaplain ; now the Rev. Mr. Parry. 1779, Aug. 27, Debtors 1. Felons &c. 3.

1782, May 24,	- - 9.	-	3.

RULES to be obferved within the Gaol of Flint.

1. All prifoners to behave—refpe&fully to keeper—whoever—flrike or aftault any—to be

punifhed by a juftice at difcrction.

2.	No curling or fwearing—No gaming in the hall nor in private.

3.	Prifoners to retire to their refpc&ive rooms—from Lady-day to Michaelmas at nine—from

Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight—To be let out in the morning—from Lady-day to Michaelmas at fix—Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight.

4. Frit nds or relations—to bring neceflaries,—being—fearched for inftruments if required—

Not to (lay long—without leave, except in—ficknefs—nor after the hours of locking up.

5. The

Digitized by

Google

Chester Circuit.	FLINTSHIRE, &c.

5.	The prifoners for felony and mifdemeanors Ihall keep in the upper ward—except leave to

the contrary, and then not to intermix with the debtors.

6.	No prifoner to remove—the keeper’s beds, &c.—nor his own bed—without gaoler’s confent.

7.	Prifoners may bring their own beds, and take them away. If they choofe the keeper’s

bed—pay two (hillings at the end of every week. Upon non-payment the gaoler may take the bed, and put the prifoner to lie in any other room as is ufual for prifoners who cannot bring beds or pay chamber-rent.

8. That the public rooms—be kept and made clean daily—by the prifoners.

9.	That no prifoners (hall have any offenfive weapons—or ipftruments—that may conduce

to their efcape.

At the General Quarter Seffions held at Holywell—12th July—33d George II. 1759.

We whofe names are hereunto fubfcribed his majefty’s juftices of the peace aflcmbled in open feflions aforefaid approve of the above Rules to be obferved within the gaol of Flint.

Roger Mojlyn, John	Glynne, David Pennant, Thomas Hughes,	Thomas Thomas.

William Wynne, Clerk of the Peace.

Another COUNTY BRIDEWELL at HANMER.

Two rooms in a ruinous thatched houfe. No court: no water: no employment. Fees	3s.	6d. No table. Claufes of a£t againft fpirituous liquors not

hung up. Keeper’s falary, £10; out of which he pays rent for the houle.

1779, Aug. 29, No prifoners.

DENBIGHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at RUTHIN.

No alteration, but the glafs taken from the windows of the cells, becaufe the prifoners complained that they were too clofe and offenfive. The county has furnifhed each of the debtors rooms with an	two	chairs,

a table, and a fender, and each cell with a bedftead, two blankets and a coverlet. Here are feparate courts for debtors and criminals; in each a pump, with excellent water, and a bathing-room, with a copper See. made fo convenient that they are in conftant ufe. The adt for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up: the gaol not yet white-walhed: a fault too common

in

Digitized by

263

Flintshire.

Denbigh

shire.

Google

264

APPENDIX.

Denbigh-

shire,

Montgo-

meryshire.

in new prifons.—Gentlemen fo confiderate will I hope order the reparation of men and women prifoners; as this is a county bridewell.

1779, Aug. 26, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 2.

1782, June 22,	-	-	8.	7.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

WREXHAM. No alteration. 1779, July 26, Prifoners 2.

1782, June 22)	1.

DENBIGH. Part of an old houfe. No, court: no water: no fewer. Keeper’s falary, £6 j out of which he pays to the parifli £3 rent for the houfe.—Under the town-hall, the Black bole (twenty-four feet by ten,) is ufed as a prifon.

1779, Aug. 26, Prifoners o. Diftrafted man 1. Paupers 2.

1782, June 22,	-	-	o.	-	-	-	2.

MONTGOMERYSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at MONTGOMERY.

A large brewhoufe is built for the gaoler. There might be a room over it for a chapel, much more convenient than that now ufed. Aft for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. The gaol has been but once white-wafiied fince the ail pafled. No bath, though very conveniently fituated for plenty of water. Debtors are fent from the county court for fmall fums, and no term is fixed for their difcharge, as is generally ordered in the for the courts of requejls. One was confined here for : 11 : 6, colls : 1 : 11, exclufive of the gaoler’s fee. The gaoler faid, many had been committed for much lei's fums. Allowance now a fix penny loaf from the gaoler, every other day. Surgeon, Mr. Stephens. Salary, £&.

1779, May 16, Debtors 4. Felons &c. 3. Imprefled Man 1.

1782, Sep. 26, -	- 11.	-	-	4.

COUNTY

Digitized by

Google

North Walts Circuit.

ANGLESEY, &c.

265

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MONTGOMERY.

No alteration. Keeper’s falary, £13 : 13 : 4. No fees. No allowance. No materials for work.

1779, May 16, Prifoner 1.	1782,	Sep. 26, Prifoners o.

NORTH WALES CIRCUIT.

ANGLESEY.

COUNTY GAOL at BEAUMARIS.

In 1780 this gaol was altered much for the better. It has five rooms and a court for debtors, and a court for felons. There are three bed-rooms, and a day-room (twenty-one feet by fourteen and a half) with a fire-place for men-felons, and a day-room, in which there is a fmall night-room, for women-felons. The keeper’s window is properly towards the felons court. No water: no ftraw: the ad for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up.

1779, July 24, Debtors 4. Felon &c. 1.

1782, May 26,	-	7.	-	1.

CARNARVONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at CARNARVON.

This gaol is in a ruinous condition. The ad for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. Great feffion in Lent at Conway.

1779,	July	24,	Debtors	5.	Felon &c.	1.

1782,	June	21,	- -	7.	- - -	o.

__—	Sep.	24,	- -	3.	- - -	o.

MERIONETHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at DOLGELLY.

Allowance now 35. a week for each prifoner, but paid to the gaoler. A chaplain and furgeon are appointed; falary to each £io. The windows

M m	now

Montgo-

meryshire,

Anglesey .

Carnarvon-

shire.

Merioneth-

shire.

Digitized by v^ooQie

2.66

APPENDIX.

Merioneth-

shire.

Cardigan-

shire.

Pembroke-

shire.

now have cafements.— John Davis, committed Oft. 6, 1774; and fentenced for tranfportation for fourteen years, was here in Sept. 1782.

1779, Aug. 25, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 2.

1782, Sept. 25,	-8.	-	--2.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

DOLGELLY. Two rooms under the town-hall. No court: no water: no employment. Keeper, the county gaoler. Salary, £6.

•1779, Aug. 25,	1782,	Sept. 25, No prifoners.

BALA. Two rooms adjoining to the town-hall, eleven feet fquare. Allowance, 3J. a week each, paid to the keeper. No court: no water: no employment. Keeper’s falary, £2.

1779, Aug. 26, No prifoners.

CARMARTHEN CIRCUIT.

CARDIGANSHIRE.

COUNTY- GAOL at CARDIGAN.

No alteration in this gaol; which is alio the bridewell and town gaol: the court and rooms were_ very dirty, which is often the cafe where there is no water. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners, and claufes againft fpirituous liquors not hung up.

1779, June 4, Debtors 2. Felons &c. none.

1782, Oft. 20,	-	3. Petty offender 1.

PEMBROKESHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at HAVERFORDWEST.

A new gaol is now built within the walls of the old caftle. Here are five cells and a kitchen for felons, and a bridewell room for •, and five rooms over them for debtors, and a room called the women's bridewell. The cells are twelve feet by fix feet nine inches, and open into a pafiage four feet wide. Thefe cells being four feet under ground, and damp, makes it almoft abfolutely

neceffary

Digitized by

Google

Carmarthen Circuit. PEMBROKESHIRE, &c.

neceffary to have bedfteads. Here is a chapel: but there is no infirmary or bath. There is a fine well of water in the fpacious court. A pump is neceffary; for wells ^rid ropes are dangerous in gaols. Neither the adt for preferving the health of prifoners, nor claufes againft fpirituous liquors were hung up.

Mrs. Martha Bowen declared in her will, that £100 had been depofited in her hands by an unknown perfon, about the year 1751, for the benefit of infolvent debtors, and the poor: which faid fum of £100 was inverted in new South Sea annuities in truft to the redtors of St. Mary's Haverfordweft. The prefent redtor, the Rev. Mr. Charles	very	wifely diftributes the

intereft in bread every week, a fixpenny loaf to each poor debtor, and the remainder in twopenny loaves to the poor in the town.

1779, June 5, Debtors 1. Felons See. 2.

1782, Odl. 21,	-	-	6.	-	-	o.

HAVERFORDWEST TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

No alteration.

1779, June 5, Debtor, one Woman. 1782, Odl. 21, Debtor, one Man.

PEMBROKE TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms twenty-four feet and a half by twelve, the lower one very damp and dirty: no fire-place : no court: no water: no fewer. (See French prifoners, page 140.)

1782, Odt. 21, No prifoners.

CARMARTHENSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, CARMARTHEN CASTLE.

No alteration. At two of my vifits, here were a number of idle and profane people, playing at tennis. This is one of the bad effedts of licences in gaols. The adt for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up.

1779, June 4, Debtors 14. Felons &c. 8.

1782, Odt. 20,	15.	-	-	-	3.

Mm2	COUNTY-

267

Pembroke-

shire.

Carmar-

thenshire.

Digitized by v^ooQie

268

APPENDIX.

Carmar-

thenshire.

Radnor-

shire.

Breconshire.

COUNTY-BOROUGH-GAOL.

No alteration} probably never was waftied: abounds with vermin. The two debtors were in the rules: here, as in the county gaol, fuch as give fecuritv have this privilege, for which they pay the gaoler a guinea, and the fame on the appointment of every lheriff.

1779, June 4, Debtors o. Felon &c. 1.

1782, Oft. 20, -	-	2.	- - 1.	Deferters	2.

SOUTH WALES CIRCUIT.

RADNORSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at PRESTEIGN.

This gaol is much improved. Befides the keeper’s apartments, there are now five rooms and a hall for debtors, two of which (eighteen feet by twelve) are new, but no free ward j a cell for criminals (eleven feet and a half by fix), and a day-room. No ftraw. A damp dungeon down three fteps, which I hope is never ufed. The bridewell room (eleven feet and a half by ten and a half) has no window. The keeper’s garden is now taken into the court, but debtors are not feparated from felons. There are ftill wanting, two rooms for criminals, an infirmary and bath, and cafements to the windows, they being all clofe glazed. The aft for preferving the health of prifoners not hung up. Gaoler’s falary, £5 : 5 : o,	10.

A day-labourer, who had a wife and three fmall children, was confined here from the county-court, for a debt of only 9 cofts, 6 s. 8 gaoler’s fee, 3 j. 4 1779, May 17, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 2.

1782, Sep. 27,	-	-	9.	-	-	-	4.

BRECONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at BRECON.

At my vifit in 1779, a new gaol and bridewell was building out of the town, near the river, and I obferved that the fituation was too low, fo that fometimes it may be expofed to floods. In 1782 it was finiflied. There are five rooms above for debtors, two of which are free wards :	a	day-room	for

felons (twenty-fix feet and a half by fourteen), into which two cells open,

and

Digitized by

Google

South Wales Circuit.	BRECONSHIRE.

and in the front-court a lodging-room. In another court there are five rooms or	cells,about fix feet and a half by four and a half, and eight feet high.

For women there is a feparate court, a day-room and five lodging-rooms. Two rooms for the fick. A chapel with a bell over it. The courts are properly paved with flag-ftones. The water has been three feet high in the cells by a great flood, but fome precautions are taken to prevent it for the future. This new gaol is not kept clean ; fowls and dogs were in the courts. Felons allowance now one pound and a half of bread each. Chaplain’s falary now £15 : fervice on Sunday, Wednefday and Friday. Here were hung up printed claufes from three a<5ts of parliament made for the regulation of prifons : and alfo, the following rules for the Breconjhire gaol.

1779, June 3, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 3.

1782, Oft. 18,	-	-	1.	-	-	-	2.

RULES for the Breconshire Gaol.

CHAPLAIN’* DUTY.

To do duty three times a week, of which Sunday to be one.’

To adminifter the Sacrament as often as required.

To be a check on the gaoler, and the perfons who fupply the gaol with provifions, and to report any irregularity to the court of quarter fejfions \ but in the mean time to apply to two juftices of the peace.

SURGEON’t DUTY.

No prifoner to be admitted into either of the infirmaries without order from the furgcon, and to bcdifcharged from thence as foon as recovered by order from the furgeon.

FEES.

No garnifh to be allowed.

For the difcharge of every prifoner feven fhillings.

Prifoners to be conveyed to the Hulks on the Thames, or to the penitentiary houfes; not exceeding four pence per mile for their conveyance, and four pence per day for their maintenance.

GAOLER’S DUTY.

Not to be concerned in fubfifting or felling any thing to the prifoners, but to fee that the perfons fupplying them with provifions do not defraud them; and to infpeft the cells twice every day.

That he obliges the. prifoners to wafh their day-room, yards and cells once in every twenty-four hours, between the hours of eight and ten in the morning in the fummer, and twice a week in the winter, and in cafe of refufal to confine them in their cells until they comply.

To lock up the prifoners at fix of the clock in the winter evenings, and nine in the fummer, and to let them out of their cells at eight of the clock in the morning in the winter, and fix in the fummer.

No

1

269

Breconshire.

Digitized by k^ooQle

2JO

Breconshire.

APPENDIX.

No Granger whatever to be admitted into the cells, or fpeak with the prifoners, but in the prefence of the gaoler or turnkey.

The pump in each yard to be locked up, and a fmall (lone cittern under each pump to be filled with water twice every day, or oftener if found convenient.

No lights, candle, or fire to be admitted into any cell.

To wafh the felons on their entrance into gaol in the cold bath, and before they are brought up into court.

No wives or children of any prifoner to live in gaol, or lodgers of any kind.

No fowls, pigs, or any other animals to be kept in gaol.

Filth to be taken away every week, by the gaoler, on penalty of ten {hillings.

Convi&s to be confined in the cells.

No edge tool to be in the gaol, but fuch as may be ordered hereafter by the juttices.

No gaming whatever.

Scales and weights to be kept in due order.

That the gaoler fhall by order of the quarter fefftons put the prifoners charged with felony or other mifdemeanors to work.

That the feveral denominations and fexes of prifoners be kept feparate, and never to have communication.

Riot, drunkennefs, and obfeenity to be feverely punifhed, by order of any one juftice.

All family bufinefs to be done in that part of the building appropriated for the corre&ion.

That the gaoler keeps the debtors rooms and his own apartments clean.

That the gaoler keeps the glafs windows, together with all fetters, locks, and doors in repair.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BRECON,

In 1779 was difeontinued, and the prifoners fent to the old county gaol, but in 178a the new bridewell joining to the gaol'was finifhed. It has for men, a work-room (about twenty-feven feet by fourteen), and five cells or lodging-rooms. For women, a work-room and three cells. Two rooms for an infirmary. In both the men’s and women’s court there are pumps and baths. A door opens into the chapel, where there are two divifions for thefe prifoners. The keeper is a weaver and dyer. Salary, £10 : the prifon clean. Prifoners have two thirds of their earnings. Spinning-wheels and cards for wool are found by the county. Claufes from fix afts of parliament relative to houfes of correction are hung up.

1782, Oft. 18, One prifoner.

BRECON TOWN GAOL.

No alteration.

T779> June 3,	1782, Oft. 18, No prifoners.

COUNTY

Digitized by

Google

1

South Wales Circuit.

GLAMORGANSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at CARDIFF.

The new gaol is finifhed, and a chaplain now appointed, the Rev. Mr. Evans \ duty, Sunday and Wednefday* falary, now £20 : and the furgeon’s falary is now £20. Licence for beer. Neither the aft for preferring the health of prifoners, nor claufes againft fpirituous liquors hung up. No bath. At my lafl vifit there was no table of fees ; but in 1779 the following table was hung up, figned only by the juftices.

1779, June 8, Debtors 3. Felons &c. o.

1782, Oft. 23,	-	16.	-	-	5.

Glamorganjhire. A Table of Fees and Chamber Rent to be taken by the gaoler, and alfo the rates he (hall impofe on each prifoner that makes ufe of the gaoler’s bed and bedding, and direflions for his government of the prifon and prifoners in his cuftody, made in purfuance of the ftatute in that cafe made and provided.

To the gaoler or turnkey at the receiving each prifoner into his cuftody, and which (hall be paid by fuch prifoner before he is difcharged To the gaoler upon the difcharge of each prifoner	-

For the lodging of each prifoner in either of the fore-ftreet chambers (the largeft of which (hall contain no more than three beds and the other two beds) fuch prifoner finding his own bedding and bed cloaths each night, feven farthings	-	-	...

For the lodging of each prifoner in either of the fore-ftreet chambers when the gaoler finds fuch prifoner with a fufficient feather bed, bolfter and bed cloaths, three pence halfpenny per night	-

For. the lodging of each prifoner in either of fuch fore-ftreet rooms at the gaoler’s finding a flock bed, duft bed, or other coarfe ordinary bed and bed cloaths, two pence halfpenny per night	-

For the lodging of each prifoner in any or either of the other chambers or rooms in the gaol, when the gaoler finds fuch prifoner with a fufficient feather bed, bolfter and bed cloaths, two pence per night	-

For a flock, duft, or other ordinary bed and bedding, one penny per night

That all the prifoners in his cuftody fhall be at liberty to fend out of the gaol for what victuals and drink they think fit, gratis; and that the gaoler for the time being (hall not by compulfion or otherwife oblige any prifoner in his cuftody to buy any meat or drink of him, but if the prifoners or any or either of them fhall out of choice deal with fuch gaoler for their provifion or other thing, that then fuch gaoler fhall fupply fuch prifoners with fufficient provifions and drink at reafonable rates.

That if any difference fhould happen to arife between the gaoler and prifoners with regard to the goodnefs of the beds or bed cloaths or the goodnefs and price of the provifions the

gaoler

£• s. D.

o 1 o 068

o o 1 A

0	o 3^ 002^.

002

001

*

271

Glamorgan-

shire.

Digitized by <^»ooQle

272

APPENDIX.

Glamorgan-

shire.

goaler fhall find fuch prifoners with, that then fuch difference (hall be fubmitted to the arbitration of the treafurer of the faid county for the time being, who is hereby defired, and as far as we can, empowered, to fettle and adjuft fuch differences and give fuch relief therein as (hall be reafonable and juft to the party grieved, and if it (hall happen that either party fhall think himfelf aggrieved by fuch adjuftment, he may appeal from fuch order or determination as fuch treafurer fhall make in the matter to the next general quarter feffions of the peace to be holden for the faid county.

In order to enforce the prifoners in the faid gaol to pay duly and regularly for fuch chambers as they fhall take, or fuch beds, bed cloaths, meat and drink as fuch gaoler fhall find them with at the prices and in manner aforefaid, We do hereby give the gaoler, upon their ncgleft and refufal of payment for one whole month together, liberty to turn them out of their faid rooms and chambers into the common rooms, until fuch time that they fhall have fully and bona fide paid what fhall be fo due from them to the faid gaoler.

Mich1. Richards,	IVm. Morgan,	Roger Powell.

Michaelmas Quarter Seffions, 1739. “ACopy.”

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COWBRIDGE.

In each of the two new rooms, befides the window, there are five apertures of about a foot diameter for the circulation of air. Court not fecure : no employment. Claufes of act againft fpirituous liquors not hung up.

x779> June 7, Prifoners 2.	1782,	Oft. 23, Prifoners 2.

CARDIFF TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms arched with brick under the town-hall. No court: no fewer: no water.

1779, June 8, Debtor 1.	1782,	Oft.	23,	Debtor 1.

SWANSEY TOWN GAOL.

One room in the cqflle for debtors j and under the town-hall'a dark room for felons &c.

1779, June 7, No prifoners.

I know not how to clofe this account of prifons without making the following obfervation. In all my journies, by night and day, through all the different counties of England (for eleven years paft), I have never once been flopped, or even known myfelf in any great danger from robbers. I mention this, with a devout acknowledgment of a kind Providence; and becaufe foreigners, in this country generally travel in terror, and often give difmal accounts of the dangers they have encountered.

GENERAL

j

i

Digitized by

Google

173

GENERAL HEADS OF REGULATIONS

PROPOSED TO BE ESTABLISHED IN

PENITENTIARY HOUSES

O R

HOUSES OF CORRECTION.

SHOULD the defign of erecting Houfes of Correftion upon an enlarged and improved plan, like that propofed in the excellent Ad 19th Geo. III. drawn up by the late Sir William Blackjlone and Mr. Eden, be carried into execution ; it will be a moll: important object to frame a fet of regulations for their proper government. In order to facilitate the confideration of this point, I have put down under a few general heads, thofe circumftances which appear to me mod deferving of attention; examples of which, carried into practice, may be found in different parts of my book.

SECURITY.

Situation—contrivance of the building —lodging up ftairs or over arcades —clothes of two colours — turn-ftiles and low gates —alarm-bell—double doors, one iron-latticed — high wall furrounding—number and difpofition of turnkeys—military guard if neccffary — gaoler’s windows looking on the yard—collar, ring, or fomewhat of that kind to be worn for difeovery on efcapes —times of opening and lhutting up to be flrictly oblerved — caution in admitting vifitors—only to be admitted at certain times —not many at once — to be fearched for tools, fpirituous liquors, &c.

HEALTH.

Frefh and fweet air—open windows and apertures for a thorough draught of air — prifoners made to go out and air themfelves at proper times—privies properly fituated— the fewers fpacious.

Cleanlinefs.	1.	The	prifoners	perfons—ufe of baths at admiflion and other times —to

wafh before meals—water in the courts and wards—towels, finks, &c. in proper places— heads fhaved—encouragements to the moft cleanly.

2.	Their clothes—linen clean, how often—other clothes—bedding—beds brought out and beat.

3. The houfe—wafliing and fweeping of cells—work-rooms —ftaircafes—galleries &c. —fewers—drains—yards—plenty of water—wafte water through the privies—feraping the walls—white-wafhing twice a year.

N n	DIET.

Digitized by ^oooie

274

REGULATIONS.

DIET.

Provifions, quantity —and quality—proportioned to work—difference in fummer and winter—hot provifions daily—breakfaft —dinner—fupper—what ? — manner of dividing and fharing—hours of meals—allowance in weight—infpeCtors of provifion—houfe weights —liquor what—meafure of—prifoners allowed to purchafe, what—and when.

CLOTHING.

A prifon uniform—materials—colour &c.—linen provided—ftockings—(hoes &c.

LODGING.

Separate cell for each prifoner—fexes feparated—linen, and bedding—what—difference in Summer and winter—upon barrack-beds—or iron —or wooden bedlteads—flues or ftoves to warm the cells in winter—time allotted for deep.

FIRING.

Fuel what kind and quantity—when and how long—fires, where to be made—ftoves— flues &c.

RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION AND MORALS.

Chaplain, his duty—what and when —private admonitions to young offenders— catechifing—chapel —manner of placing the prifoners in — perfons to overlook their behaviour — reward and punifhment for behaviour at—vifitors difmifled at fervice time—prifoners reading chapters or prayers—grace at meals—no gaming—or drinking—minifters of different per-fuafions allowed.

EMPLOYMENT.

Proportioned to ftrength—and to degree of criminality—hours of—kinds of—within doors and without doors—number working together—tafks—mere labour; or manufactures requiring ingenuity—the labour of each diftinguifhable from that of another—working at their own trades — clothing &c. of the houfe made by prifoners—wafhing—baking—proportion of profit to be allowed to prifoners..

Wholefomenefs of an employment — ready fale of manufacture —conveyance of raw materials and manufacture — tools required, not dangerous ones—returned at night.

REWARDS.

Shortening term of confinement —work lighter or more agreeable —order of being ferved at meals — better provifion — degree of liberty allowed—cells more convenient — profit of work—diftribution of charity—advance into a higher clafs—money given at difeharge— clothes given at difeharge—-a character at difeharge.

PUNISH-

Digitized by v^ooQie

REGULATIONS.

-75

PUNISHMENTS.

Abridgment of diet — or coarfer kind—hard or difagreeable work — marks of difgrace; wearing collar &c.— ftripes — term lengthened on attempts to efcape — {hutting up the refractory in flrong rooms — folitary confinement and work.

TREATMENTOFSICK.

An infirmary—medical attendance—medicines—freer allowance of diet, wine, bark &c.— clean linen—frefh air—nurfes, number of—precautions againft infeCtion—fumigation— clothes expofed to fire—in an oven—or buried—room for convalefcents—gradual return to ufual diet and labour.

PROCEEDINGS ON DEATH OF PRISONERS.

Coroner—jury how compofed — funeral — without the precinCts —how attended—expcncc allowed for.

GOVERNMENT OF PRISON.

Magtjlrates. To vifit at proper periods—without previous notice—to fee and examine all prifoners feparately—to fix rewards or punifhments—a room for in the prifon.

InfpeClors. By whom appointed—their duty—time of continuance in office—how often to vifit—at unexpected times—to view the whole prifon, and hear prifoners complaints—to examine and weigh provifions—to enquire the conduCt of prifoners and reprefent proper objeCts for favour—attendance at chapel—no falary—but fome honorary diftinCtions.

Gaoler. His duty—infpeCtion of—complaints againft admitted—obliged to conftant refi-dence—allowed no profit in provifions, liquor &c.—falary of—manner of choofing him— no rent or taxes to pay—no fees, or private emoluments from prifoners.

Matron. Salary of—duty.

Turnkeys, number of—by whom appointed—falary—their office.

Manufacturer. Salary of—duty.

Tafimajler. Salary of—duty.

REGULATIONS MADE KNOWN.

Tables hung up—intelligibly drawn up—the duty of officers—of keepers—of prifoners—of hours of opening and (hutting—of work—of behaviour of prifoners to keeper &c.—of rewards and punifliments—of attendance on divine fervice—of allowance—Where hung— how made known—painted on a board—printed and given to each prifoner—to be read at certain times—by chaplain—or keeper.

N n 2	TABLES.

Digitized by v^ooQie

276

T A B L E S.

TABLE I.

Regulations for Prisoners of War in England.

De par les Commiflaircs pour le Soin des Malades & des Blefles de la Marine, et pour

l’Echange des Prifonniers de Guerre.

REGLES quc tous les Prifonniers de Guerre, dans la Grand Bretagne, et I'lrlande,

doivent obferver.

I.	T ES ordres donnes par l’Agent, aiant foin des prifonniers, doivent etre obferves fans replique ou difpute. Qu’aucun des prifonniers ofe infulter, menacer, maltraiter. Sc encore moins frapper le guichetier, ni perfonne par P Agent employe aux affaires de la prifon, foils peine de la punition qu’ordonneront Mefiieurs les Commiftaires, et de perdre leur tour d’etre echanges ; detre etroitement enfermes, et prives de la moitie de leur vivres.

II.	Tous les prifonniers, lors que Pagent en fera la revue, repondront a leurs noms ; et ft dans la lifte donnee a Pagent quelque erreur fe trouve, ils l’indiqueront, afin de la corriger ; et ainft prevoir la confufton qui refulteroit des meprifes des noms.

III.	Tous les prifonniers refufants de repondre a leurs noms a la revue, feront punis par la privation de leurs vivres, jufqu’ a ce qu’ils s’y foumettent.

IV.	S’il arrive du dommage aux lieu ou les prifonniers feront gardes, foit en voulant s’echapper, ou autrement, de propos delibere; les frais de la reparation feront payes des vivres de ceux qui auront ainft contrevenu ; et ft les coupables ne peuvent etre decouverts, tous les prifonniers eftfemble contribueront de leurs vivres, aux frais de cette reparation.

V.	Quiconquc s’echappera de prifon, etant repris, y fera mis au cachot ; et n’y aura que demi-ration de vivres, jufqu’ a ce qu’il aura ainft paye les frais faits pour le faiftr et le ramener; et de plus il perdra fon tour d’echange ; un officier ainft contrevenant, fera des-lors regarde et traite comme ftmple matelot.

VI.	II eft defendu de fe battre, fe quereller, ou faire defordre dans les prifons, ou aux endroits ou il fera permis aux prifonniers de prendre Pair, fous peine de punition felon que PofFcncc Pexigera.

VII.	Les prifons feront tenues nettes & propres par les matelots, et cela tour a tour, comme Pagent Pordonnera; Sc tout matelot qui refufera cc fervice a fon tour. Sc qui en aura ete averti, fera prive de fes vivres jufque* a ce qu’il s’y foumette.

VIII.

Digitized by LjOOQle

TABLES.

-77

VIII.	Les prifonniers doivent informer P agent, des hardes, ou autres chofes dont iis peuvcnt

avoir befoin, et pour lefquels ils auront dequoi payer; et l’agent a ordre non feulement de permettre qu’ils en foient fournis, mais aufli d’avoir un foin tout particulier, qu’on ne leur en impofe dans les prix.	^

IX.	Dans chaque prifon les prifonniers pourront nommer trois, ou cinq d’entre eux, et les changer quand il leur plaira, pour l’examen des vivres ; afin de voir s’ils font bons, & s’ils ont leur ration, foit pour le poids, foit pour la mefure; fuivant la table d’avituaillement ci-defTous, Et s’il fe trouve quelque fujet de plaintc, foit fur la maniere de les appreter, fervir, ou dans quelqu’autre chofe ; ils doivent, avec bienfeance, lc faire favoir a l’agent; qui, trouvant la plainte fondee, doit immediatement y mettre ordre. S’il le neglige, ils doivent en avertir Meffieurs les Commiflaires, qui ne manqueront pas de leur rendre juftice, a tous egards.

X.	Les boutiquiers (excepte ceux qui trafiquent dans des chofes qu’il ne convient pas de vendre a des prifonniers) feront pcrmis de refter a la grande porte, depuis dix heures du matin jufqu’ a trois heures de Papres midi, pour vendre leur merchandifes, a tels prifonniers, qui font en fonds pour les payer fur le champ.

XI.	Celui d’entre les prifonniers qui ofera par ce moyen procurer des liqueurs, ou autre chofes &ca. qui ne conviennent pas a un prifonnier d’avoir, ou qui recevra, ou livrera aucune lettre, fera puni de l’abus qu’il aura fait de cette indulgence.

TABLE D’AVITUAILLEMENT.

Jours.	Bierre.	Pain.	| Bceuf.	Beurre.	From age.	Pois.*	Sel.
	Quartes.	Livres.	Livres.	Onces.	Onces.	Pintes.	Onces.
Dimanchc	I		3  T	-	-	■  T	i  T
Lundi	I	1 r	3  T	-	-	-	■  T
Mardi	I	li	1  T	-	-	i  T	i  T
Mecredi	I	It	3  T	-	-	-	T
Jcudi	I	It	3  4-	-	-	i	i  T
Vendrcdi	I	It	3  T	-	-	~	X  T
Samedi	I	il	-	4	ou 6	i  l	X  T
7otal	7 .	io;.	4V	4	6	2 •	n 1 -T

• Ou un livre de bon chou chacun.

The allowance of fait, and the note to peafe, I faw once only, in a table that fcemcd

newly printed off.

TABLE

Digitized by ^ooQle

278

TABLE II.

An Account of the Number of Prifon^rs convifted of Capital Crimes in Scotland, from ill January 1768 to ill May 1782.

This mark * denotes a prr/on pardoned; the reft were executed.

Northern Circuit. — Southern Circuit. — Western Circuit.

	L D I N BURCH	Aber-  deen.	Per th.	1 N V £ h -N • ?S.	Jfd  BURGH	Dum-  fries	Ayr.	Glas-  gow	Stir-  ling	Crimes.
I?6S	I	-	-	-	-	- i	-	-	-	*■«'< ruv.
	*1	-	-	-	-	_	_	-	-	HotJc IK-iling
J/u7		-	-	-	-	-	-	1	-	Murder and Robbery.
	I	1	-	-		.		.	_	' Murder
	I	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	Street robbery.
177°	I	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	Forgery.
	2	1	-	-	-	-	_	-	-	Houfe-hreaking and Theft.
		-	-	-	I	-	-	-	-	‘'heep-ftcaling
	I	-	-	-	-	-	.	-	-	Robbery.
177 1	♦l	-		-	-	_	„	.	_	Murder.
1 / / 1	-	-	-	-	*1	-	-	.	-	Houfe-breaking and Theft.
	*	•	-	-	•i	-	-	-	-	Theft.
	-		.	.	_			_		Child-murder.
177*	-	-	1	-	-	.	_	_		Horfe-ftealing.
	-	-	-	-	-	-		• #2	-	Houfe-breaking and Theft.
	1	-	-	-	_	_	_		_	Houfe-breaking and Thelt.
	2	-	-	-	-	.	_	.	_	Sheep ftealing.
	2	-	-	-	-	-	.	-	_	Murder and Robbery.
	-	-	1	-	-	.	_	_	•1	Horfe ftealing.
*773	-	-	1	•i	I	_	_	_	_	Murder.
	-	-	-	I	-	_	_	_		Robbing the Mail.
		-	-	•2	-	-	_	-	.	Theft, Robbery, &c.
	-	-	-	.	-	.	_	2	.	Robbery.
	'	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	1	Houfe-breaking and Robbery.
	* *3	-	_	_	_	_	_	_	_	Murder.
	# |	-	-	-	-	-		_	_	Returning from Tranfportation.
	•1	-	-	-	-		_	_	_	Horfe-ftealing
1774	1	-	-	-	_	_		-.		Sheep-ftealing.
	-	-	1	-	-	.	_	_	_	Houfe-breaking and Theft.
	-	• 1	-	.	-		_			Theft of Cattle.
	-	-	-	-	-	•i	-	-	-	Rape.
1775	-	-	1	-	_			_	„	Mun'-.r.
		-	-	-	-	-	-	1	-	'I heit.
	2	*	-	-	-		_	-	_	Robbery.
	1	-	-	-	_	_.	_		_	Child-murder.
1776	-	-	1	-	-	_	_	-	_	Shop-breaking and Theft.
	-	1	-	-	-	_	„		_	. Murder.
	-	-	-	-	I		-	_		Theft.
	-	-	-	-		-	-	1	-	Stealing a Letter from Port Office.
*777	-		-	-	-	-	-	-		Chiid-murder.
1778	-	-	1	-	-	-	-	-	_	Theft ot Cattle.
1779	-	-	-	•I	-		_		_	Murder.
	-	-	-	-	-		1	-	-	Murder and Robbery.
	•2	-	-	-	-	-	_	_	_	Robbery.
	•2	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	Shop-breaking.
1780	1	-	-	•	-	-	-	-	-	Forgery.
	•	-	1	-	-	-	-	-	-	Houfe-breaking and Theft*
	-	-	-	-	-	_	1	-	„	Murder by Polfon
	-	-	-	-	-	1	-	-	-	Theft from Port Office.
	*1	-	-	-	-	-	*2	1	_	Robbery.
1781	1	-	-	-	-	-	-	.	_	Theft from Port Office.
	-	-	-		-	-	-	1	2	Houfe breaking and Theft
178*	1	-	-		-	-	-	-	-	Sheep-ftealing.
	1	"	1		1	-	-	-	-	Robbery.
	32	I 5	9	5	5	2	4	9	5	76 Total Condemned.
	9	2	0	3	2	1	1	2	2	22 Pardoned.
	23	3	9	2	3	1	3	7	3	54 Executed.

TABLE

Digitized by CjOOQie

TABLES.

279

T A B L E. III.

Number of Convicts Executed, for London and Middlesex; during the laft Eleven Years.

Various

Murder.	Coiners.	Crimes.	Rioters.	Total,

From Dec.	1771 to Dec. 1772,	Men.  3	Women.	Men.  2	Women.	Men.  32	Women	Men.	Women.	37
Dec.	1772 to Dec. 1773,	•	1 burnt	1	--	29	--	--	--	3Z
Dec. 1773 to Dec. 1774,		--	1	--		3»	--	--	--	32
Dec.	1774 to Dec. 1775,	1	I	3	--	40	I	--	--	46
Dec.	1775 to Dec. 1776,	6	--	8	--	24	--	--	--	38
Dec.	1776 to Dec. 1777,	2	--	1	--	29	--	--	-- '	32
Dec.	1777 to Dec. 1778,	1	--	1		3*				33
Dec.	1778 to Dec. 1779,	--	--	2	I burnt	19	I	--	--	23
Dec.	1779 to Dec. 1780,	1	--	2	--	24	1	*9	3	S°
Dec.	1780 to Dec. 1781,	--		1	--	29	5	--		3S
Dec. 1781 to Dec. 1782,						43	2	--	1	4S
		»5	3	21	I	33*	10	>9	3	403

I have in my poffeflion the large copper plate, firft publifhed in 1772 by Sir StepbenTljeodore Janjfen.) fhewing the numbers executed in London for the twenty-three preceding years; and the crimes for which they fuffered. I am forry to be reminded by thefe tables of a judicious obfervation of Mr. EdenJsy Principles of Penal Law, page 306. “ The accumulation €< of fanguinary laws is the worft diftemper of a Hate. Let it not be fuppofed, that the cc extirpation of mankind is the chief object of legiflation.” I would wifh, that no perfons might fuffer capitally but for murder;—for fetting houles on fire;—for houfe breaking, attended with a£ts of cruelty. The highwayman ;—the footpad the habitual thief, and people of this clan ; Ihould end their days in a penitentiary houfe, rather than on the gallows.

TABLE

Digitized by k^ooQie

28o

T A B L

E S.

TABLE IV.

An Account of the Number of Prisoners in the Gaols and Prifons of England and Wales, at the Time they were vifited in 1779, and 1782.

As fome County gaols are alfo the county bridewells,* where petty offenders are not always feparated from felons ; in thofe places I fometimes include petty offenders under the article felons (Ac. The reafon of my diltinguifhing the women debtors, is to (hew that a room or two in the gaoler's lioufe may probably be fufficient for them, inftead of a feparate ward, as propofed in my general plan for a county gaol (edit. 1.) — In this table I have omitted mentioning all thofe prifons in which, at the times of my vifiting, there were no perfons confined.

1779.	178a.

	Debtors.		Felons	Petty			Debtors.		Felons	Petty
	Men.	Worn.	&c.	Offenders.			Men.	Worn.	Sec.	Offenders.
Abingdon	I	O	0	O	_		O	I	3	0
Bridewell	0	O	O	3	-	-	O	O	0	*3
Appleby	7	I	2	0	-	-	6	2	0	0
Bridewell	0	O	O	0	-	-	0	O	0	1
Aylesbury	6	O	12	0	-	-	>9	I	6	0
Bridewell	0	O	O	3	-	-	0	O	0	2
Aylffam	0	O	O	4	-	-				
Barking	0	O	O	1	-	-	0	0	0	3
Basford	2	O	O	0	-	-				
Bath	10	O	O	2	-	-	3	O	0	5
Batley	17	I	O	0	-	-	25	O	0	0
Be AUM ARIS	4	0	I	0	-	-	6	I	1	0
Beccles	0	0	O	9	-	-	0	O	0	*5
Bedford	7	O	2	0	-	-	7	O	3	0
Bridewell	0	0	O	2	-		0	O	0	4
Town	0	O	O	0	-	-	0	O	0	1
Berkeley	0	0	O	0	-	-	0	O	0	1
Berkhamfead	0	0	O	1	-	-	0	O	0	0
Berwick	2	O	O	0	-	-	2	O	0	0
Beverley	0	O	O	1	-	-	0	O	0	1
Town	2	O	O	0	-	-	0	O	0	0
Hall-garth	1	O	O	0	-	-	2	O	0	0
Birmingham	0	O	O	8	-	-	0	O	0	3
Court prifon					-	-	1	2	0	0
Bodmin	0	O	O	13	-	-	12	2	4	8
Sheriff’s Ward	12	1	O	0	-	-				
Bojlon	0	O	2	0	-	-	0	O	0	0
	7*	3	«9	47			83	9	J7	57

Bradford

Digitized by c.ooQie

TABLES.

28l

		1779-						1782.		
	Debtors. Felons			Petty			Debtors.		Felons	Petty
	Men.	Worn.	Arc.	Offenders.			Men.	Worn.	&c.	Offenders.
Bradford	11	1	O	O	-	-	6	I	O	O
Brecon *	3	0	3	O	-		0	I	2	O
Bridewell	O	O	0	6	-	-	0	O	O	I
Brijiol	41	6	9*	0			27	* 6	32	O
Bridewell	O	O	0	8	-	-	0	0	0	19
Lawford's-gate	O	O	0	S		-	0	0	0	6
Buntingford	O	O	0	1			0	0	0	1
Bury St. Edmunds	18	O	5	0	-		H	2	11	0
Bridewell	O	O	0	2		>	0	0	0	0
Cambridge	20	1	2	0	*	-	13	2	3	0
Bridewell	O	O	0	7	-		0	0	0	8
Town	1	O	2	0	-		2	0	0	0
Bridewell	O	O	0	6	-	-	0	0	0	3
Canterbury	2	O	2	0	-		1	0	2	0
Bridewell	O	O	0	4	-	-	0	0	5	6
Cardiff	2	1	0	0	-	-	16	0	5	0
Town	1	O	0	0	-	-	1	0	0	0
Cardigan	I	1	0	0	*	-	3	0	0	1
Carlisle	32	O	21	0	-	“	28	2	9	0
City	2	1	0	0	-		0	0	0	0
Carmarthen	!3	I	8	0	-		13	2	2	1
Town	0	O	1	0	'	-	2	0	1	0
Carnarvon	5	O	1	0	-	-	3	0	0	0
Chelmsford	34	O	7	0	-	-	28	0	l9	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	27	-		0	0	0	28
Chester	18	I	4	0	*	-	>9	3	5	0
City	6	1	5	0	-	-	5	0	1	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	1			0	0	0	3
Cheferfield Bridewell	0	O	0	1	-	-	0	0	0	3
Cirencejier	0	O	0	6		-	0	0	1	2
Clare	0	O	0	1			0	0	0	0
Colchejler	0	O	4	0		-	1	0	5	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	1	-	-	0	0	0	3
Coventry	5	O	4	0	-	-	8	0	2	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	1			0	0	0	4
Covobridge	0	O	0	2		-	0	0	0	2
Dartford	0	O	0	5	- ,		0	0	0	5
Derby	12	O	6	0	“		*3	0	9	3
Town	0	O	0	0	-		4	0	2	0
Devizes	1	O	0	H	-	-	1	4	0	25
Dolgelly	3	O	2	0	-		7	1	2	0
	231	•4	86	92			215	24	us	124
		Oo							Doncafler	

Digitized by

TABLES,

1779-	1782.

	Debtors.		Felons	Petty			Debtors.		Felons	Petty
	Men.	Worn.	&c.	Offenders			Men.	Worn.	&c.	Offenders.
Doneajler	O	O	O	O	-	-	I	O	O	O
Dorchester.	h	0	6	O	-	-	17	o#	8	O
Town gaol					-	-	I	0	O	O
Dover Cattle	3	O	0	O	_		2	0	O	O
Town	I	O	1	O	-	-	I	0	O	3
Durham	IZ	2	22	O	-	-	18	2	19	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	9	-	-	O	O	0	8
Ely	7	O	1	0	-	-	4	O	2	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	2	-	-	0	O	0	3
Exeter	0	O	33	0	-	-	0	O	25	0
Sheriff’s Ward	35	I	0	0	_		21	2	0	0
Bridewell	O	O	0	27	-	-	0	O	0	43
City	2	O	2	0	-	-	3	0	1	0
Flint	1	O	3	0	.	-	9	O	3	0
Folkingham	O	O	0	2	-	.	0	O	0	2
Gainjborough	O	O	0	S	-	-	0	O	0	4
Glocester	lS	I	24	0	-	-	33	5	38	0
City	I	O	1	0	-					
G of port	0	O	0	9	-	.	0	0	0	3
Guildford	0	O	0	3	-	-	0	0	0	3
Halifax	5	O	0	0	-	.	7	0	0	0
Halflead	0	O	0	5	-	-	0	0	0	0
Haverfordwest	1	O	2	0	-	-	6	0	0	0
Town	0	I	0	0	-	.	1	0	0	0
Henley					-	-	0	0	0	4
Hereford	18	1	9	0	-	-	23	0	6	0
Bridewell					-	.	0	0	0	4
City	4	O	0	0	-	-	0	0	0	0
Hertford	1	O	17	0	-	-	10	0	9	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	1	-	.	1	0	0	3
Hitchin	0	O	0	0		.	0	0	0	3
Horsham	12	O	6	0	.	_	16	0	7	0
Hull	8	O	1	0	-	-	7	0	4	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	11	-	-	2	0	0	4
Huntingdon	10	I	H	0	-	-	7	0	3	3
Ipswich	22	2	23	0	-	-	26	1	10	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	0	-	-	0	0	0	2
Ivilchester	32	I	lS	0	-	-	35	3	H	0
Kendal Bridewell	0	O	0	0	_	_	0	0	0	,
Kettering	0	O	0	2	-	»	0	0	0	0
Kingjlon	3	O	0	0	-	-	3	1	0	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	6	-	-	0	0	0	17
	207	IO	180	82			254	>4	*49	110

Knarcjbrough

Digitized by ^.ooQie

TABLES

1779.	1782.

	Debtors.	Felons	Petty			Debtors.		Felons	Petty
	Men. Worn.	&c.	Offenders.			Men.	Worn.	See.	Offenders.
Knarejbrough	O 0	O	.0	-	-	I	O	O	O
Lancaster	67 5	II	O	-	-	55	2	l7	O
Launceston	O O	4	O	-	-	0	O	0	O
Lavenham	O O	0	3	-	-	0	O	0	1
Leeds	O O	0	O	-	-	0	O	0	1
Leicester	22 I	10	O	-	-	19	I	4	O
Bridewell	O O	0	8	-	-	0	O	0	2
Town	3 0	2	0	-	. -	2	O	3	O
Leaves	0 0	0	8	-	-	0	O	1	6
Lichfield	3 0	1	0	-	-	2	O	0	2
Lincoln	22 0	*4	0	-	-	28	2	3	0
City	1 0	0	0	-	-	1	O	1	0
Liverpool	22 3	0	0	-	-	16	3	*4	0
Bridewell	0 0	0	8	-	-	0	0	0	12
London Bridewell	0 0	0	13	-	-	0	0	0	32
Borough Compter	>3 3	2	0	-	-	H	1	0	3
Clerkenwell	0 0	45	0	-	-	77	2	4	5
Bridewell	0 0	0	l7l	-	•	0	0	0	!55
Fleet	>77 7	0	0	-	-	183	7	0	0
King’s Bench	473 25	0	0	-	-	494	21	0	. 0
Marfhalfea	88 4	0	0	-	-	38	9	0	2
Newgate	46 5	Hi	0	-	-	3	0	291	0
New Ludgate	>5 0	0	0	-	-	20	0	0	0
Poultry Compter	43 3	0	0	-	-	25	1	7	0
Savoy	O O	0	98	-	-	0	0	0	92
Tothill-Fields 0	r\ 0	A	74			A	A	r\	72
Bridewell 5	v \J	VJ				U	V		
Whitechapel	5 °	O	0	-	-	O	0	0	0
Wood-ftreetComp. 32 6		11	0	-	-	47	7	*7	0
Lofivuithiel				-	-	2	0	0	0
Ludlovo	0 0	2	0	-	-	0	0	0	0
Lynn Regis	3 0	2	0	-	-	4	0	2	0
Macclesfield				-	-	1	0	0	0
Maidstone	1S 0	23	0	-	-	23	1	56	0
Bridewell	0 0	0	13	-	-	0	0	4	11
Manchefier	0 0	0	11	-	-	0	0	0	>4
Marlborough	0 0	0	4	-	-	0	0	0	11
Middlenjcich	0 0	0	5	-	-	0	0	0	H
Mildenhall	0 0	0	0	-	-	0	0	0	1
Monmouth	6 0	12	0	-	-	10	0	0	1
Town	0 0	0	0	-	-	1	0	0	1
1056 62		280	416			1066	57	424	438

Mont-

Digitized by

283

Google

84

TABLES

1779.	1781.

	Debtors.		Felons	Petty			Debtors.		Felons	Petty
	Men.	Worn.	&c.	Offenders.			Men. Worn.		Sc c.	Offenders.
Montgomery	4	O	• 3	O	-	-	II	0	4	O
Bridewell	O	O	0	1	-	-	O	0	O	O
Morpeth	9	I	6	O	-	-	H	1	4	O
Bridewell	O	O	0	3	-	-	O	0	0	6
Nantnvich	2	O	0	0	-	-	1	0	0	O
Newcajlle	>3	I	4	0	-	-	9	3	1	O
Tower Gaol	O	O	0	1	-	-	0	0	0	2
Tallow-houfe					-	-	0	0	2	O
Bridewell	O	O	0	7	-	-	0	0	0	s
Newport, Eflex	O	O	0	9	-	-	0	0	0	*5
Ifle of Wight	O	O	0	0	-	-	0	0	0	2
Northampton	14	1	*5	0	-	•	17	2	9	1
Town	I	0	0	0	-	•	0	0	0	0
Norwich	23	I	29	0	-	-	24	1	23	0
City	*9	O	5	0	-	-	H	2	5	0
Bridewell	O	O	0	7	-	-	0	0	0	4
Nottingham	12	O	5	0	-	-	11	0	6	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	0	-	-	0	0	0	2
Town	2	O	0	0	-	-	1	0	1	0
Oakham	3	O	1	0	-	-	2	0	3	0
Odiam	0	O	0	5	-	-	0	0	0	4
Oundlt	0	O	0	0	-	-	0	0	0	1
OXFOR D	12	I	4	0	-	-	21	4	3i	0
City Bridewell					-	-	0	0	1	0
Peterborough	1	O	0	0	-	-	1	0	0	0
Bridewell	0	O	0	1	-	. -	0	0	0	0
Petworth	0	O	0	2	-	-	0	0	0	0
Plymouth	1	O	0	0	-	-	4	0	0	4
Pooh Bridewell					-	-	0	0	0	1
Port/mouth	6	O	1	0	-	-	6	0	4	0
PrESTEI G N	2	0	2	0	-	-	9	0	4	0
Preftcn	0	O	0	17	-	-	2	0	0	47
Reading	8	I	9	0	-	-	18	1	11	0
Bridewell	0	0	0	7	-	-	0	0	0	>3
Richmond	6	O	0	1	-	-	12	1	0	2
Ripon Liberty	3	O	0	0	-	-	0	0	0	0
Town	1	O	0	1	-	-	0	0	0	0
Rochejler	2	0	0	0	-	-	0	0	0	0
Romney					-	-	0	0	1	0
Ruthin	2	0	2	0	-	-	6	2	7	0
St. Albans Borough gaol	0	O	0	0	-	-	1	0	1	0
	146	6	86	62			184	»7	us	79

St.

Digitized by ^ooQie

		T A	B L	T	s.					
		1779						1782		
	Debtors.		Felons	Petty			Debtors.		Felons	Petty
	Men.	Worn.	See,	Offenders.			Men.	Worn.	See.	Offenders,
St. Albans Liberty	O	O	I	O	-	-	O	O	O	O
Bridewell	O	O	O	3	-	-	O	O	O	2
St. George's Fields 1	O	0	O	44			O	0	I	l6
Bridewell 3										
Salisbury	l6	I	*5	0	-	-	18	2	*3	3
City	I	O	1	0	-	-	I	O	* 0	0
Sheffield	8	O	0	0	-	-	3	O	0	0
Shepton-Mallet	0	O	0	19	-	-	0	O	0	12
Sherborne	0	O	0	2	-	-	0	O	0	13
Shriwsbury	*9	4	10	0	-	-	l7	2	19	0
Bridewell	0	0	0	8	-	-	0	O	0	16
Town	1	0	0	8	-	-	0	O	0	12
Southampton SherifF’sWard 3		0	0	0	-	-	2	O	0	0
Town	0	0	1	0	-	-	0	O	0	0
Bridewell	0	0	0	1	-	-	0	O	0	1
Southwark	20	3	H	0	-	-	21	2	42	0
Southwell	0	0	0	l7	-	-	0	O	0	9
Spalding	0	0	0	2	•	-	1	O	- 0	3
Stafford	40	0	H	0	-	-	37	I	20	0
Bridewell	0	0	0	9	-	-	0	O	1	5
Stamford					-	-	0	O	2	0
Snvajfham	0	0	0	10	-	-	0	O	0	4
Taunton	0	0	0	10	-	-	0	O	0	9
Town					-	-	0	O	0	2
Thame	0	0	0	0	-	-	0	0	0	1
Thtt ford	0	0	1	0	-	-	0	O	0	0
Thirjk	0	0	0	2	-	-	0	O	0	9
Tiverton					-	-	0	O	0	5
VJt	0	0	0	7	-		0	O	0	2
Hakefield	0	0	0	20	-	-	0	O	0	26
IValJingham	0	0	0	2	-	-				
Warwick	21	1	28	0	-	-		I	11	0
Bridewell	0	0	0	12	-	-	0	O	0	10
Winch comb	0	0	0	0	-	-	0	O	0	1
Wf N CHESTER	12	0	26	0	-	-	32	I	28	0
Bridewell	0	0	0	11	-	-	0	O	0	23
Town					•	-	1	O	0	0
Wind for Caille	1	0	0	0	•	-	0	O	0	0
Town	0	0	1	0	-	.	0	O	0	0
Wijleach	l	1	0	0	-	-	0	1	0	0
Witney	0	0	0	7	-	-	0	O	0	2
Wolverhampton	0	0	0	2	-	-	0	O	1	2
Wcodbridge	0	0	0	1	•	-	0	O	0	4
	>43	10	112	>97			164	IO	138	192
					Pp			Worcester.		

Digitized by ^.ooQie

286

TABLES.

	177 9*						1782.		
Debtors.		Felons		Petty		Debtors.		Felons	Petty
Men.	. Worn.		&c. Offenders.			Men.	Worn. &c.		Offenders.
Worcester 18	I		8	O	-	- 13	2	7	O
Bridewell o	O		0	6	-	O	O	0	3
City 5	I		4	0	-	3	I	2	0
Wrexham o	O		0	2	-	0	O	0	1
Wymundham O	O		0	5	-	- 0	O	0	9
Yarmouth 4	O		4	0	-	4	O	2	0
Bridewell 0	O		0	0	-	• 1	O	0	1
York 64	9		16	0	•	- 64	5	*3	0
City 9	3		2	0	-	5	0	3	0
St. Peter’s 5	0		1	0	-	- 2	0	0	0
Bridewell 0	0		0	8	-	• 0	0	0	3
io5	>+		35	21		92	8	27	>7
Total, Men Debtors in 1779,		>959			In 1782,			OO  O	
Women Debtors	-	>>9			-			139.	
Felons &c.	-	798			-		-	991.	
Petty Offenders	-	9>7			-		-	1017.	
Prifoners in the Hulks	-	526			-		-	204.	
Suppo/ed omitted	-	60.			-		-	3°-	
Total Number of Prifoners	-	4379	•					4439*	
Though I have repeatedly vifited all the County gaols, and almofl all the other prifons ; yet									
as there are fome few of the corporation prifons which I					did	not fee.	I have added fixty more		
prifoners to the number in 1779,	and thirty		in 1782;		fo that probably.			we have nearly the	
average number of perfons confined at one time in the prifons of this kingdom.									
Ifubjoin the Numbers, confined in the London Prifons in					^*1  00  Cm	, which are as follows.			
						Debtors.		Felons Petty	
						Men.	Worn,	» Sc c.	Offenders.
London Bridewell	-					O	0	0	38
Borough Compter						25	3	0	2
Clerkenwell	-					O	0	79	O
Bridewell						2	4	0	185
Fleet	-					18 7	3	0	O
King’s Bench	-					557	25	0	O
Marlhalfea	-					65	6	0	O
Newgate	-					IOI	12	224	O
New Ludgate	-					H	1	0	O
Poultry Compter						3°	0	19	O
Savoy	-		-			0	0	0	56
Tothill-Fields Bridewell			-			4	2	0	86
Wood-ftreet Compter			-			34	0	36	0
In the Hulks	-		-			0	0	*94	0
						1019	56	552	367

INDEX

Digitized by v^ooQle

1

N

D

E

X

TO THE

A P P E

A.

Aberdeen, 154.

Abingdon, 221.

Acle, 202.

Acquitted prifoners detained for fees, 157.

not detained for fees, 149. A& of parliament, Englijb and lrijh compared, 158.

Aix-la-Chapelle, 95.

Allowance to galley-flaves, 65, 77, 79, 82,

107, 120, 126. prifoners, 1, 3, 8, n, 12, 16,

«7> 25» 27> 3'» 37. +7> S3» 56> 58*

84. 93. 94. «©i> *i2> »*3. 1 »4> 123-PruJJian flaves, 60.

Tufcan Haves, 69.

Alms-houfe at Florence, 69.

Naples, 79.

Vienna, 63.

Aloft, 103.

Amiens, 122.

Amfterdam, 8.

Anglefty, 263.

Antwerp, 101.

Apertures, in the deling for letting out foul air, 115,205.

Aflaflinations, frequent in 7/*/y, 80.

Afiize, judges at, fix days, 148.

Augjburg, 89.

Ayljham, 202.

■*yr> 147.

N D I X.

B.

Badajoz, IlO.

Bakers, punifhment of, 64.

Bala, 266.

Banbury, 223.

Baftille, 129.

Baths, improper ufe of, 258.

Battel, 190.

Bayreuth, 93.

Hettor, his charity, 226.

Beccaria, his remark on executions, 80. Bedding necelfary, 65.

Bedfordjhire, 196.	%

Bellem, 107.

Bergues, 133.

Bcrkjhire, 220.

Berlin, 56.

2?rr*, 87.

Berwick, 254.

Bicetre, 125.

Blackftone, Sir William, quoted, 131,

Bologna, 67.

Bordeaux, 131.

Bowen, Martha, her will, 267.

Bofton, 217.

Bounty to prifoners of war, 142, 143, 145. Bradford, 250.

Bread, aflize of, 15, 22, 40, 59, 64, 88, 98, 121, 160.

Breconjhire, 268.

Breda, 18.

Bremen,

1

Digitized by k^ooole

I

N

D

E

X,

Bremen, 23.

Brejlau, 55.

Bridewells, not fupported by their work, 13, 14, 60, 92, 104.

Bruges, 103.

Brunfwick, 22.

B ruffe Is, 97.

Buckinghamfhire, 193.

Buckingham, 195.

Burgos, 119.

C.

Calais, 134.

Camhridgejhire, 198.

Campomanes, Count, his kind afliftance, 121. Canterbury city bridewell, 186.

Cardiff, 272.

Cardiganshire, 266.

Carmarthenshire,

Carnarvonshire, 265.

Ceflio bonorum, procefs of, 147.

Chamberry, 86.

Chapel, decent attendance at, 3, 25.

in houfes of corredlion, 60.

Chaplain to each galley, 79.

inftru&s the prifoners, 4, 71, 89.

reads regulations, 102. '

refides in the prifon, 58, 68, 84, 93,

95 > 97> 23!-Charitable focieties, 66, 74, 86, 116.

Charter fchools, account of, 161.

Cheffire, 259.

Churches, afylums, 80, 110, 120.

Civita-vecchia, 77.

Clothes to be worn in prifon, 11, 21, 30, 47, 70, 88, 98, 100, 113, 189. of felons, ought to be buried, 191. Clothing to galley-flaves, 77.

Collar, iron, on Haves, 60, 61.

Cologn, 93.

Combinations prevented, 2.

Commiflioners of fick and wounded, their attention, 146.

Condemned, liberal allowance to, 74, 96. Confinement, terms of, 65, 70.

Confumption, fuppofed contagious, 78, 115. Convent at Peterjburg, 44.

Convi&s, attention to, 106.

Copenhagen, 29.

Cornwall, 240.

CronSadt, 47.

Cumberland, 254.

D.

Deal, 188.

Deaths at Amfierdam, 9.

De Betfloi's munificence, 44.

Debtors alimented, 1, 8, 16, 57, 67, 95, 97. fewer, caufe of, 174. not confined when they have no effc&s, 95-

unruly, room for, 256.

Denbighjhire, 263.

Denbigh, 264.

Denmark, 28.

Derbyffire, 213.

Deventer, 17.

Devonffire, 238.

Divine fervice at Rotterdam, 3.

Dolgelly, 266.

Dorfetjhire, 237.

Dort, 18.

Drefden, 61.

Dublin, 155.

Dumfries, 15 3.

Dungeon funk lower, 259.

Dungeons to force confeflion, 18.

horrid, 62, 90, 91, 96, 201, 208, 209, 224, 259, 262.

Dunkirk, 132.

Durham, 252.

E.

Eden, Mr. quoted, 224, 279.

Edinburgh, 149.

Employment

Digitized b\ v^ooQle

I

N

D

E

X.

Employment of prifoners, 2,10,25, 31,50, 61, 90, 103, 113, 198, 217, 223, 253. in cleaning llreets, 83, 87. in linen cloth manufa&ory, 84,99. in grinding corn, 61.

fpe&acle glafies, 91,92. in making lace, 92, 99, 101. in working on marble, 93. in picking oakum, 14, 173, 174, 259.

on paper-hangings, 98. in polifhing plate-glafles, 125. pounding Hone, 95.

tile-lherds, 249. attending filk-worms, 60, 61. fawing, 54, 62, 78, 242. fpinning. See, 6, 13,16,21,23, 38, 60, 63, 87, 88, 98, 120, 152. in various trades, 7, 83, 88, 92, 99, 108, 114. weaving coarfe carpeting, 18,21.

facking for the Eajl India Company, 18. weaving gauze, 84. woollen manufa&ory, 90,94,1 14. of galley-flaves, 29, 69, 78, 79, 8i, 82.

necefiary, 87.

none in bridewells, 181, 184,191, 193, 226, 237, 265, 266. Efcapes, expedient to prevent, 123.

punifhed, 70, 79, 84, 120. not punilhed, 87, 246.

EJfex, 182.

Executions, better if lefs frequent, 80.

not frequent, 9, 16, 22, 23, 41, 95, 96, 148. number of, at Amjlerdam, 9.

in London and Middlefea*, 279. in Scotland, 148, 278. in Tufcany, 71. foon after lcntence, 148.

Evcra, 109.

F.

Fernan Nunez, Count, his kind afliftance, 121. Fire, precautions again!!, 19, 53, 64, 103, 115, 153, 154, 170, 188. Firing, necefiity of, 58, 196.

Firmian, Count de, his kind afliftance, 84. Flanders, 97.

Flint(hire, 262.

Florence, 67.

Fothergill. Dr. on work for prifoners, 93. France, 122.

Franc fort, 95.

Frey burg, 87.

Friars, their hofpitals, 55, 64, 68, 80, 85, 90, in, 115, 127. Fumigation, Dr. Lind's method of, 166*

G.

Galleys, none fent to under twenty, 77. Galley-Haves, 66, 77, 81, 126.

expence of, 78.

Gaming prohibited, 81, 243.

Gaoler, care in choice of, 124.

or keeper, rules for, 10, 16, 17, 70,

!52* !53> *54> 243> 269. Gaoler’s falary, 3, 16, 189.

Gaolers falaries in France, 125.

Gaol*fever at Cambridge, 199. at Exeter, 239.

not found in Italy or Ruffla, 79, 51* remarks concerning, 165.

Gaols, new, commended, 188, 241.

Geneva, 86.

Genoa, 81.

Germany, 20, 56, 89.

Ghent, 99.

Glamorganjhire, 271.

G lajgoiv, 152.

Glocejlerjhire, 231.

Gorgon a, 87.

Gouda, 6.

Gratz, 64.

Greig’s, Admiral, account of Haves, 47.

Hampfliire,



Digitized by kjOOQle

INDEX.

H.

Hampjhire, 233.

Hamburg, 23.

Ha timer, 263.

Hanover, 21.

Harburg, 25.

Harlem, 7.

Harwich, 184.

Heberdett, Dr. on wet rooms, 19.

He refordjhire, 229.

Hertfordjhire, 180.

Holland, i.

Hort, Sir John, his kind afliltance, 121. Hofpitals, at Amjlcrdam, 14.

Badajoz, IIO.

Berlin, 59.

Bologna, 67.

Brcfau, 56.

Bruges, 104.

Brujfels, 98.

Burgos, 119.

Copenhagen, 32.

Cronjladt, 48.

Edinburgh, 15 I.

Florence, 68.

Genoa, 82.

Ghent, 99.

Hamburg, 28.

Harlem, 7.

Lille, 105.

Lijbon, 108.

Madrid, 115.

Milan, 85.

Mofcoav, 50.

Naples, 80.

Paris, 126.

P eterjburg,43.

Rome, 76.

5. Michele at Rome, 75.

Stockholm, 39.

Talavera, ill.

Toledo, ill.

Turin, 86.

Hofpitals, at Valladolid, 118.

Warfaw, 54. for convalefcents, 64, 69, 77, 127. children, 24, 82. flaves, 66, 71, 80, 82, 106, 107. lunatics, 15, 82, 86, 127. orphans, 15, 35, 59, 85 103, 115, 121, 152. obfervations on, 167. loftinefs of, 81.

Hot provifions every day in houfes of correction, 14, 93, 94, 113.

Hotel de la Force, new, 123.

Houfes of correction, not to be expelled to maintain themfelves, 92, 104.

Hulks on the Thames, 163.

Huntingdonshire, 198.

I.

Idlenefs, bad effeCts of, 87, 193.

Infection, precautions againft, 165.

Infirmary, for galley-flaves on (bore, 66, 78,

82.

of aprifon, fpacious, 72, 107, 112, Inquifition prifons, 74, 117.

InfpeCtors care, 3, \o, 12, 17, 82, 89. Invernefs, 134.

Ireland, 135.

Iron bedileads, 67,68, 103, 111,115, 200, 263. Iron-grate doors, 63, 67, 188.

Irons ufed in bridewells, 202, 246.

not ufed, 5, 66, 67, 72, 97.

Italy, 66.

Jedburgh, 147.

K.

Keeper murdered, 222.

Keepers falaries, 3, 16.

Kendrick, Jehu, his legacy, 172.

Kent, 185.

Kettering, 219.

Kiddcrminjler, 22J.

Kilmainham ,

Digitized by

I

N

D

E

X.

Kilmainham, 157.

King’s benefaClion at Salijbury, 236.

bounty in Cornwall, 240.

Knoot, punilhment of, 41.

L.

Lancajhire, 256.

Laubach, 64.

Leghorn, 69.

Leicejlerjhire, 211.

Ley deny 6.

Licences in gaols, bad effeCfcs of, 37, 155, 160, 222, 231, 252, 267.

Liege, 96.

Z/7/*, 104.

Ltncolnjhire, 216.

Linen, clean, to prifoners once a week, 58,

83, 102, 132.

Lijbon, 106.

London, 168.

Lucca, 81.

Lukau, 61.

Lunatics kept with prifoners, 156, 199, 201, 216, 237, 251, 253. not to go in common with prifoners, 156.

Lyons, plate of hofpital, 131.

M.

Madrid, III.

Magdeburg, 60.

Malefactors children educated, 9.

Mann, Sir Horace, his kind afliltance, 69.

Mats to fleep on, 2, 185.

Mead, Dr. on peftilential contagion, 19. Meafurements, minutenefs of, apology for* 58. Merionethshire, 265.

Middleburg, 18.

Milan, 83.

Mildenhall, 207.

Monmouth, 231.

Monmouth/hire, 230.

Montgomery/hire, 264.

Moore, Dr. quoted, 73, no.

Mofcow, 48.

Munich, 90.

N.

Nantwich, 262.

Naples, 78.

Newport Pagnel, 194.

Norfolk, 200.

Hofpital,

Northamptonshire, 217.

Northumberland, 254.

Nottinghamshire, 214.

Number of inhabitants at Amferdam, 9.

at Naples, 78.

Nurenburg, 91.

O.

Oakum, picking, a healthy employment, 191. Oath, form of adminiltering, 36, 147. Ofnabrug, 20.

Of end, 104.

Oundle, 219.

Oxfordjhire, 222.

P

Padua, 67.

Pamplona, 119.	*

Paris, 122.

Pembrokeshire, 266.

Perjury uncommon, 147.

Perth, 147.

Peterfiurg, 41.

Phyfician, obfervation good of, 166.

Plymouth royal hofpital, 240.

Poland, 53.

Police good, 59.

Portugal, 105.

P ran gins, Baron *&, his prifon, 87.

Prague, 62.

Prayers daily in houfes of correction, 11,26, 59. Prifon for boys, 75.

Prifons

Digitized by LjOOQle

r n d

Prifons burnt by rioters, 169, 170, 177, 191. foreign arched, 19, 64, 73. , permiflion to vifit at dated times, 90. Prifoncrs, American, -at Plymouth, 146.

Forton, ibid.

Pembroke, ib. regulations for, 138, 146'. Prifoners difeharged in open court, 149. en Penjion, 97.

few in Scotland, caufcs of, 148. numerous in Ireland, 136. , refradory puniihed, 2, 11, 17, 26, 27, 70, 97, 102, 119. fick, care of, 72, 78, 82, 85, 107, 115, 121, I23. rcleafed, 199.

.	fupplied	from	county	infirmary,

226.

tried out of irons, 149.

Prifoners of war at Ardres, 133.

Belfaft, 144.

Bcrgues, 133.

Bourbourg, ibid.

Brijlol, 136.

Calais, I 34.

Carlijle, 140.

Chejler, 141.

Deal, 139.

Dublin, 144.

Dunkirk, 132.

Edinburgh, 143.

Fetlmouth, ibid.

Fort on, 138.

Hull, 142.

Kilkenny, 145.

Lincoln, 142.

Liverpool, 141.

Pembroke, 140.

Plymouth, I 35.

Rotterdam, 6.

- £	ShrC’-vJlury,	142.

IVincheJler, 137.

Yarmouth, 143. parole, fecurity of, 134.

E X.

Prifoners of war, regulations for, 132, 276.

fick, in military hofpitals, 132, 135-in naval hofpital, 139. infpedor of, proper, 141. Profit of work, one feventh to keeper, 3.

to prifoners, 60, 63, 6;, 70, 78* 125. one third to prifoners, 62, 83. one fifth to ditto, 99. all to ditto, 63.

Public diverfions taxed, 13, 121.

Punilhment fecond time of confinement, 57.

cl

Quafs, manner of making, 49.

Quinze Vingts hofpital, 128.

R.

Radnorshire, 268.

Rafp-houfe at Amjlerdam, 10.

Rotterdam, 2.

Ratijbon, 91.

Recruiting from prifons, danger of, 157. Regents of prifons, privileges of, 10.

room for in prifons, 101. Regulations, foreign, hung up, 66, 81, 82.

in the chapel, 103. at the prifon at Rome, 73. tables of, 11, 24, 26, 32, 93, 94, 113.

RcnJJlurg, 29,

Rome, 72.

Romney, 187.

Rotterdam, 1.

Rules, new, in King’s Bench, 176.

or bounds, exteniive, 177.

Russia, 40.

new code of laws quoted, 41.

RuJjian botanic magazine, description of, 52. Rutlandshire, 217.

Rye, 190.

San

Digitized by kjOOQie

I

N

D

E

X.

S.

San Fernando prifon, 113.

St. Omers, 132.

Scbaffbaufen, 88.

Schools, parilh, in Scotland, 148.

Schwabach, 92.

Scotland, 147,

Scurvy, a diforder frequent in prifons, 39,

125.

Secrete chambers defcribed, 83.

Separation, according to crimes, 13, 16, 87. Shropjhire, 227.

Silesia, 55.

Slaves, employment of, 22, 25, 29, 31, 47, 60, 61, 62, 65, 69, 77, 81, 83, 87, 107, 113-humanity to, 65.

fick, great attention to, 71, 72, 78, 79, 107, 121. Tufcan, lie on ftiore, 69.

Smallpox in prifons, 185, 231.

Somerfetjhire, 245.

Southavark, 176.

Spain, 109.

Spandau, 60.

Spin-houfe at Amjlerdam, 12.

Harlem, 7.

Utrecht, 16. how fupported, 13.

Spirituous liquors permitted in prifons in Scotland, 15 5. in Irelandy 160. not permitted, 11,17,113. obfervation on, 29, 160. Squalor carceris, fevere maxim, 155.

Stable, improperly placed, 200.

Stadt-houfe prifon at Amjlerdam, 8.

4	Rotterdam, 1.

Utrecht, 16.

Staffordjhire, 226.

Staircafe, remarkable,. 76.

State prifoners, 61, 73.

Stirling, 147.

CLq

Stockholm, 36.

garnilli taken, 38. Stone of difgrace, 67. Suffolk, 205.

Surrey, 191.

Suffex, 188.

Swanjey, 272.

Sweden, 36. Switzerland, 86.

T.

Table of fees, Englijh, 171, 178, 194, 196, 199, 203, 206, 209, 214, 218, 220, 227, 242, 243, 260,.271. Scotch, 149, 152.

Talavera, III.

Tennis-court, improper in gaols, 267. Thumb-fcrews, fent by magillrates, 207. Toledo, in.

Torture, abolilhed, 36, 57. drefs for, 101. room defcribed, 90. rooms, 21, 67, 73, 86, 88, 89, 90,

96* 97> 99> ,I2* fuffered, 10, 20, 21, 95.

Tower, 168.

Triejle9 64.

Troughs, convenient in gaols, 112.

Tubs, improper for gaol baths, 211, 225. Turin, 85.

Turner, Jonathan, his legacy, 252.

Tufcany, number of prifoners in, 71.

7W*, 48.

U.

Unhealthinefs, caufe of, 65. Utrecht, 16.

V.

Valladolid, 117.

Varniih-boards, good in hofpitals, 68, 103.

Venice,

Digitized by kjOOQle

I

D

E

X.

tfj

Venice, 66.

Verbetcrhuizens, contrary to public jultice, 12, 17, 97, 101, 122.

Verts, or mantles for punilhment, 28, 58. Vienna, 62.

Vifitants, none admitted on Sunday, 89.

W.

Wall, diftant from the prifon, 68, 74, 83, 176, 189.

WaJJifigbam, 202.

Warfaw, 53.

bread cheap, 55.

Warwickshire, 208.

Water, cold, effect of in gaol-fever, 181.

inrtances where not accertible, 181, 1S2, 194, 195, 197, 202, 210, 219, 221, 223, 224, 229, 231, 238, 247, 253, 266, 267.

Watts, Richard, his charity, 187.

Weights and fcales, proper in prifons, 164,

189, 190, 259.

Wejiminjler, 176.

Weft/norland,, 255.

Wcjlon, annuity left by a lady, 193.

Weft - Wycomb, 195.

White-wafhing in foreign houfes of correction, 2, 8, 63. benefit of, 151. claufes in ad for, difregarded, 183, 255, 263.

~ C

Wiltjhire, 236.

Windows of gaoler, towards felons prifon, 57-

Witches, dungeons for, 89, 91.

Women and men, not feparated, 139, 173, 180, 182, 212, 224, 226, 227, 231, 234, 236, 238, 254, 259, 260, 264. ironed in foreign prifons, 62.

gaoler fined, 200. fn houfes of correction cleanly, 2, 4,

3°> 39> I13-

Woolwich, the conviCts there, 163.

Worcefter cartle, gaol-fever prevailing in, 224.

one caufe of, ibid.

Worcefterjhire, 224.

Work-houfe at Amfterdam, 13.

commended, 7, 25, 63, 207, 234, 251.

Work-houfes, obfervation on the children of, 235-

Wurtzburg, 94.

Wyfchnei Wolot/chok, 48.

Y.

Tor he. Sir Jofeph, kindnefs of, 19.

Yorkshire, 247.

Z.

Zurich, 88.

Zwolle, 13.

THE	END.

Digitized by ^.ooQle

DIRECTIONS to the BOOK-BINDER.

The Platts are to be inferted as follows :

. 4.	Amlterdam, Houfe of Corrections	-	-
5-	Zwolle, Houfe of Correction,	-	-
6.	Utrecht, Peft-houfe,	-	-
3-	Breda, Houfe of Correction,	-	-
7*	Spanifh Veil,	-	-
8.	Peterfburg, Houfe of Education,	-	-
9-	Mofcow, Prifon,	-	-
10.	Botanic Magazine,	-	-
11.	Rome, Front of the Prifon,	-	-
12.	Houfe of Correction,	-	-
i3-	Milan, Houfe of Correction,	-	-

14 & 15. Bern, Employment of Criminals, two plates,

17.	Madrid, Prifon,

18.	Baftille,	-

19.	Lyons, HoteUDieu,

2i. Plymouth, Hofpital,

Page to face 14.

16.

17* 18. 28. 44.

49-

52.

72.

76. 84. face 87.

116. 129. I3i-240*

Digitized by

Google
