THE

STATE

OF THE

PRISONS

IN

ENGLAND and WALES,

WITH

PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS,

AND AN ACCOUNT OF SOME

FOREIGN PRISONS and HOSPITALS.

By JOHN HOWARD F.R.S.

Ah little think the gay -----

Whom pleasure, power, and affluence surround.

How many pine in want, and dungeon-glooms;

Shut from the common air.

THOMSON.

THE THIRD EDITION.

WARRINGTON,

PRINTED BY WILLIAM EYRES;

AND SOLD BY T. CADELL, J. JOHNSON, AND C. DILLY, IN LONDON.

M DCC LXXXIV.

PARUM EST

COERCERE IMPROBOS

POENA

NISI PROBOS EFFICIAS

DISCIPLINA.

TO

THE HONOURABLE

THE HOUSE OF COMMONS,

IN GRATITUDE FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT

WHICH THEY HAVE GIVEN

TO THE DESIGN,

AND

FOR THE HONOUR

THEY HAVE CONFERRED

ON THE AUTHOR,

THIS BOOK

IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED

BY THEIR

MOST OBEDIENT SERVANT,

JOHN HOWARD.

Cardington,

Bedfordshire,

April 5th, 1777.

CONTENTS.

Introduction - 1.

Sect. I.

General View of Distress in Prisons - 4.

Sect. II.

Bad Customs in Prisons - 12.

Sect. III.

Proposed Improvements in the Structure and Management of Prisons - 19.

Sect. IV.

An Account of Foreign Prisons and Hospitals - 44.

Sect. V.

Prisoners of War in England, &c. - 184.

Sect. VI.

Scotch and Irish Prisons - 195.

Sect. VII.

A particular Account of English Prisons - 210.

Hulks on the Thames - 465.

Remarks on the Gaol-Fever - 467.

Conclusion - 469.

Tables - 470.

INTRODUCTION.

THE distress of prisoners, of which there are few who have not some imperfect idea, came more immediately under my notice when I was sheriff of the county of Bedford;* and the circumstance which excited me to activity in their behalf was, the seeing, some — who by the verdict of juries were declared not guilty, some — on whom the grand jury did not find such an appearance of guilt as subjected them to trial; and some — whose prosecutors did not appear against them; — after having been confined for months, dragged back to gaol, and locked up again till they should pay sundry fees to the gaoler, the clerk of assize, &c.

In order to redress this hardship, I applied to the justices of the county for a salary to the gaoler in lieu of his fees. The bench were properly affected with the grievance, and willing to grant the relief desired: but they wanted a precedent for charging the county with the expence. I therefore rode into several neighbouring counties in search of one; but I soon learned that the same injustice was practised in them; and looking into the prisons, I beheld scenes of calamity, which I grew daily more and more anxious to alleviate. In order therefore to gain a more perfect knowledge of the particulars and extent of it, by various and accurate observation, I visited most of the county gaols in England.

Seeing in two or three of them some poor creatures whose aspect was singularly deplorable, and asking the cause of it, the answer was, “they were lately brought from the bridewells.“ This started a fresh subject of inquiry. I resolved to inspect the bridewells: and for that purpose travelled again into the counties where I had been; and, indeed, into all the rest; examining houses of correction, city and town gaols. I beheld in many of them, as well as in the county gaols, a complication of distress;

* In 1773.

INTRODUCTION.

but my attention was principally fixed by the gaol-fever and the small-pox, which I saw prevailing to the destruction of multitudes, not only of felons in their dungeons, but of debtors also.

The gaol-fever is no new subject of complaint. Stow, in his Survey, mentions*, that “in the year 1414, the gaolers of Newgate and Ludgate dyed, and prisoners in Newgate to the number of sixty-four.” And speaking of the King's Bench prison†, says, that in the six years preceding the year 1579, one hundred prisoners died there: and twelve between Michaelmas and March of the last mentioned year, “through a certain contagion called the sickness of the house;” and I shall presently have occasion, among the fatal effects of this distemper propagated from prisons, and infecting many abroad, to mention another ancient instance of that sort also. These effects are now so notorious, that what terrifies most of us from looking into prisons, is the gaol-distemper so frequent in them.

Upon this subject I was examined in the House of Commons in March 1774: when I had the honour of their thanks. Soon after that, Mr. Popham, member for Taunton, repeated the humane attempt which had miscarried a few years before; and brought in a bill for the relief of prisoners who should be acquitted — respecting their fees; and another bill for preserving the health of prisoners, and preventing the gaol-distemper. They both passed, that sessions: these two acts I had printed in a different character, and sent them to the keeper of every county gaol in England. By those acts, the tear was wiped from many an eye; and the legislature had for them “the blessing of many that were ready to perish.”

The great honour done me by the House has excited the curiosity of some to inquire what facts I had collected. This is one reason of the present publication: but it is not the only, nor yet the principal one. There are still remaining, many disorders that ought to be rectified: prisoners suffer great hardships, from which I am desirous that they should be set free: the gaol-fever is not, as I am persuaded it may be, totally eradicated. These are my motives for printing this book. I think it will shew plainly, that much is yet to be done for the regulation of prisons; and I am not without hope, that the legislature will finish what was so laudably begun.

I was called to the first part of my talk by my office as sheriff. To the pursuit of it I was prompted by the sorrows of the sufferers, and love to my country. The work grew upon me insensibly. I could not enjoy my ease and leisure in the neglect of an opportunity offered me by Providence of attempting the relief of the miserable. The attention of parliament to the subject, led me to conclude that some additional labour would not be lost; and I extended my plan. The difficulty I found in searching out evidence of fraud and cruelty in various articles, together with other real sources of distress, obliged me to repeat my visits, and travel over the kingdom more than once: and after all, I suspect that many frauds have been concealed from me; and

* Vol. I. p. 19.

† Vol. II. p. 18.

---

INTRODUCTION.

that sometimes the interest of my informants prevailed over their veracity. Besides, as I had in my first journies gathered, from fails and experience, proofs of the mischievous effects of the want of cleanliness and fresh air, I had in my latter visits these strong arguments to enforce my perauaaions; and, in conaequence, some gaolers grew at last more mindful and complying, for the fake, not only of their prisoners, but of themselves and their own families.

It was not, I own, without some apprehensions of danger, that I first visited the prisons; and I guarded myself by smelling to vinegar, while I was in those places, and changing my apparel afterwards. This I did constantly and carefully when I began; but by degrees I grew less attentive to these precautions, and have long since entirely omitted them.* On account of the alteration made by the ail for preferring the health of prisoners, one may now look into many a. prison without gaining an idea of the condition it was in a few years ago. I wish the reformation to be not for the present only, but lasting. If the motive for amendment has any where been merely temporary, there is no doubt but the effect will cease with the cause: those who from such inducement have obeyed, will in future follow the example of Others who have disregarded the law; and prisons that have been amended, will relapse into their former state.

As to what is dill wrong, I set down matter of fail without amplification; which would in the end rather impede than promote the object of mv wishes; that is, the correction of what is really amiss. ,

The journies were not undertaken for the traveller's amusement; and the collections are not published for general entertainment; but for the perusal of those who have it in their power to give redress to the sufferers.

The writer begs- his reader to excuse the frequent egotisms; which he did not know how to avoid, without using circumlocutions that might have been more disgusting.

I have been frequently afleed what precautions I use, to preserve myself from infection in the prisons and hospitals which I visit. [ here answer, next to the free goodness and mercy of the Author of my being, temperance and cleanliness are my preservatives. Trailing in Divine Providence, and believing myself in the way of my duty, I visit the moil noxious cells; and while thus employed,- “ / fear n* evil.”—I never enter an hospital or prison befsore breakfail* and in an offensive room I seldom draw my breath deeply.

B 2

SECTION

SECTION I.

GENERAL VIEW OF DISTRESS IN PRISONS.

THERE are priibns, into which whoever looks will, at first fight of the people confined, be convinced, that there is some great error in the management of them: their fallow meagre countenances declare, without words, that they are very miserable. Many who went in healthy, are in a few months changed to emaciated dejected objects. Some are seen pining under diseases, “Jick, and in prison-,” expiring on the floors, in loathsome cells, of pestilential fevers, and the confluent finall-pox: victims, I mult not say to the cruelty, but I will lay to the inattention, of sheriffs, and gendemen in the commission of the peace.

The cause of this diitrefs is, that many prisons are scantily supplied, and Ibme almost totally deititute of the necessaries of life.

There are several bridewells (to begin with them) in which prisoners have no Food. allowance of Food at all. In some, the keeper farms what little is allowed them: and where he engages to supply each prisoner with one or two pennyworth of bread a day, I have known this Ihrunk to half, sometimes less than half the quantity, cut or broken from his own loaf.

It will perhaps be afleed, does not their work maintain them ? for every one knows that those offenders are committed to bard labour. The answer to that question, though true, will hardly be believed. There are few bridewells in which any work is done, or can be done. The prisoners have neither tools, nor materials of any kind: but spend their rime in Doth, profaneness and debauchery, to a degree which, in some of those houses that I have seen, is extremely shocking.

Some keepers of these houses, who have represented to the magistrates the wants of their prisoners, and desired for them necessary food, have been silenced with these inconsiderate words. Let them work or Jlarve. When those gentlemen know the former is impossible, do they not by that thoughtless sentence, inevitably doom poor creatures to the latter

1 have

Sect. I.

DISTRESS IN PRISONS.

5

I have asked some keepers, since the late act for preserving the health of prisoners, why no care is taken of their lick: and hare been answered, that the magistrates tell them the act dees net extend to bridewells.*

In consequence of this, at the quarter sessions you fee prisoners, covered (hardly covered) with rags; almost familhed; and sick of diseases, which the discharged spread where they go; and with which tltofe who are sent to the county-gaols infeft these prisons.

The fame complaint, want ef food, is-to be found in many county gaols. In above half these, debtors have no bread; although it is granted to the highwayman, the house-breaker, and the murderer; and medical assistance, which is provided for the latter, is withheld from the former. In many of these gaols, debtors who Would Work are not permitted to have any tools, left they should furnish felons with them for escape or Other mischief. I have often seen these prisoners eating their water-soup (bread boiled in mere water) and heard them say, “ We ate locked up and almost starved to death-”

As to the relief provided for debtors by the benevolent aft, 3 2d of George 11^, (commonly called the lords aft, because it originated in their house) I did not find in all England and Wales (except the counties of Middlesex and Surrey) twelve debtors who had obtained from their creditors the four pence a day, to which they had a right by that act. The means of procuring it were out of their reach. In one of my journies I found near six hundred prisoners, whose debts were under twenty pounds each: some of them did not owe above three or four pounds: and the expence of fueing for the aliment is in many places equal to the small debts; for which some of these prisoners had been confined several months. -

At Carlisle but one debtor of the forty-nine whom I saw there in 1774, had obtained his groats: and the gaoler told me, that during the time he had held that office, which was fourteen years, no more than four or five had received it; and that they were soon discharged by their creditors neglecting to pay it. No one debtor had the aliment in York castle, Devon, Cheshire, Kent, and many other counties. The truth is, some debtors are the most pitiable objects in our gaols.

To their wanting necessary food, I mult add not only the demands of gaolers, &c. for fees; but also the extortion of bailiffs. These detain in their houses, (properly enough denominated spunging-houses) at an enormous expence, prisoners who have money. I know there is a legal provision against this oppression but the mode of obtaining redress (like that of recovering the groats) is attended with difficulty: and the abuse continues. The rapine of these extortioners needs some more effectual and

If the late act does not include bridewells, it is required, by an act 7th James I. Cap. IV. that *' the mailers and governors of..-houses of correction shall have some fit allowance—for the relieving of such as shall happen to be weak and sick in their custody.”

easy

6

GENE*AL VIEW OF

ealy check: no bailiff should be suffered to keep a public house; the mischiefs occasioned by their so doing, are complained of in many parts of the kingdom.*

Here I beg leave to mention the hard case of prisoners confined on exchequer pro-ceffes; and those from the ecclesiastical courts: the latter are excluded from the privilege of bail; and the former, generally, from the benefit of insolvent acts.

Felons have in some gaols two pennyworth of bread a day; in some three halfpennyworth; in some a pennyworth; in some none: the particulars will be seen hereafter in their proper places. I often weighed the bread in different prisons, and found the penny loaf seven ounces and a half to eight Ounces, the other loaves in proportion. It is probable that when this allowance was fixed by its value, near double the quantity that the money will now purchase, might be bought for it: y yet the allowance continues unaltered: and it is not uncommon to fee the whole purchase, especially of the smaller Turns, eaten at breakfast; which is sometimes the case when they receive their pittance but once in two days: and then on the following day they must fail.

This allowance being so far short of the cravings of nature, and in some prisons lessened by farming to the gaoler, many criminals are half starved: such of them as at their commitment were in health, come out almost famished, scarce able to move, and for weeks incapable of any labour.

Many prisons have no Water. This defect is frequent in bridewells, and town gaols. In the felons courts of some county-gaols there is no water: in some places where there is water, prisoners are always locked up within doors, and have no more than the keeper or his servants think fit to bring the m: in oqe place they were limited to three pints a day each: a scanty provision for drink and cleanliness!

Ata. And as to Air, which is no 1efs necessary than either of the two preceding articles,

and given us by Providence quite gratis, without any care or labour of our own; yet, as if the bounteous goodness of Heaven excired our envy, methods are contrived to rob prisoners of this genuine cordial of life, as Dr. Hales very properly calls it: I mean by preventing that circulation and change of the salutiferous fluid, w ithout which animals cannot live and thrive. It is well known that air which has performed its office in the lungs, is feculent and noxious. Writers upon the subject shew, that a hogshead of air will last a man only an hour: but those who do not choose to confute

Bv the statute jrd George II. it is enacted, that “ N"o sheriff, bailiff, Sc.---Hiail convey any person “ arrefied—to any public victualling or other drinking-house—without the content of the person so “ arrefied." Now if the bailiff hiofelf keeps a public house, this seems to preclude the debtor’s choice; he mofi go to a public house, or directly to gaol. '

t In 1557, a penny loaf of wheat bread weighed twenty-six ounces. In 178a, the weight of a tvxpmej white loaf, at Leaden was eighteen ounces; at EJinlurgb, nineteen ounces and a half j at Dahlia, sixteen ounces; in September 1783, at Landau, one pound three ounces; and the 4th of Auguff 178;, in Dahlia, only eleven ounces three drachma.

philosophers;

Sect. 1.

DISTRESS IN PRISONS.

7

philosophers; may judge from a notorious fast. In 1756, at Calcutta in Bengal, out of a hundred and seventy persons who were confined in a hole there one night, a hundred and fifty-four were taken out dead. The few survivors ascribed the mortality to their want of fresh air; and called the place Hell in miniature.

Air which has been breathed, is made poiibnous to a more intense degree, by the effluvia from the lick, and what else in prisons is offensive. My reader will judge of its malignity, when I allure him, that my clothes were in my first journies so offensive, that in a post-chaise I COUld not bear the windows drawn tip; and was therefore obliged to travel commonly on horseback.- The leaves of my memorandum-book were ofcen so tainted, that I could not use it till after spreading it an hour or two before the fire: and even my antidote, a vial of vinegar, has, after using it in a few prisons, become intolerably disagreeable. I did not wonder that in those journies many gaolers made excuses; and did not go with me into the felons wards.

I learn from a letter to Sir Robert Ladbroke, printed in 1771, page 11, that “ Dr. Hales, Sir John Pringle, and others have observed, that air, corrupted and putrified, is of such a subtile and powerful nature, as to rot and dissolve heart of oak; “ and that the walls of buildings have been impregnated with this poisonous matter “ for years together/’

From hence any one may judge of the probability there is against the health, anil life, of prisoners crowded in elofe rooms, cells, and subterraneous dungeons, for fourteen or fifteen hours out of the four and twenty. In some of those caverns the door is very damp: in others' there is sometimes an inch or two of water: and the straw, or bedding is laid an such floors; seldom on barrack-bedsteads. Where prisoners are not kept in under-ground cells, they are often confined to their rooms, because there is no court belonging to the prison, which is the case in many city and town goals; or because the walls round the yard are ruinous, or too low for safety: or because the gaoler has the ground for his own ule. Prisoners confined in this manner, are generally unhealthy. Some gaols have no Scows or vaults; and in those that have, if they be not properly attended to, they are, even to a visitant, offensive beyond exprelfion; how noxious then to people constantly confined in those prisons. f

One cause why the rooms in some prisons are so elofe, is the window-tax which

Sec also the Pbil'Jcpbicat Tra»Ja3icnt, Vol. XLVIII. Part 1. page 42.

j- An act made in Ireland the 3d year of his present Majesty, “ for better preventing the feverities, &c.*’ has the following clause: “ Whereas many infections disorders are daily produced by the " confinement of numbers in elofe prisons, whereunto there is no back-yard adjoining, and the lives ‘ of his Majesty’s subjects are endangered by the bringing of prisoners into public streets for air; be it 1 ‘ enacted---t!i?.t every grand jury at the assizes or quarter fessions—may be enabled, and they are “ hereby required and directed, to eontraft either by lease, or to pnrehafe a piece of gronnd next “ adjoining the gaol, or as near as conveniently can be had thereto, and cause to be erected necessary ,r teufes, and a wall sufficient for the security of the said prisonctE.”

Sm Ess.

the

3

GENERAL VIEW OF

Eesdinc.

Mt*£ \LS.

Lxss ATXCS.

C. aOI-FEVER.

the gaolers hare to pay: this tempts them to flop the windows, and stifle their prisoners.*

In many gaols, and in most bridewells, there is no allowance of Bedding or straw for prisoners to Deep on; and if by any means they get a little, it is not changed for months together, so that it is ofienfive and almost worn to dust. Some lie upon rags, others upon the bare doors. When I have complained of this to the keepers, their justificarion has been, “ The county allows no straw; the prisoners have none but at my cost. ”

The evils mentioned hitherto affect the health and life of prisoners. 1 have now to complain of what is pernicious to their Mokals; and that is, the confining all forts of prisoners together: debtors and felons, men and women, the young beginner and the old offender; and with all these, in some counties, such as are guilty of misdemeanors only; who should have been committed to bridewell to be corrected, by diligence and labour; but for want of food, and the means of procuring it in those prisons, are in pity lent to such county gaols as afford these offenders prison-allowance.

Few prisons separate men and women in the day-time. In some counties the gaol is also the bridewell: in others those prisons are contiguous, and the court-yard common. There the petty offender is committed for instruction to the most profligate. In some gaols you lee (and who can fee it without sorrow) boys of twelve or fourteen eagerly listening to the stories told by practised and experienced criminals, of their adventures, i'ucceffes, stratagems, and eicapes.

I most here add, that in some few gaols are confined idiots and Lunatics. These serve for sport to idle vilitants at assizes, and other times of general resort. Many of the bridewells are crowded and offensive, because the rooms which were designed for prisoners are occupied by the insane.| Where these are not kept separate, they disturb and terrify other prisoners. No care is taken of them, although it is probable that by medicines, and proper regimen, some of them might be restored to their senses, and to usefulness in life.

I am ready to think, that none who give credit to what is contained in the foregoing pages, will wonder at the havock made by the Gaol-fever. From my own observations in 1773, 1774 and 1775, I was fully convinced that many more prisoners were destroyed by it, than were put to death by all the public executions in the

This is also the case in many work-houses and farm-houses, where the poor and the laboorer are lodged in rooms that haTe no light, nor fresh air: which may be the canso of our peasants not having the healthy rnddy complexions one ufod to fee so common twenty or thirty years ago. The difference has oftea struck me in my various joumies.

-* See Irish Act, the 3d of George III. p. 47S. where such persons are required to be kept separate.

kingdom.

Sect. I.

DISTRESS IN PRISONS.

9

kingdom. This frequent effeffc of confinement in prison seems generally understood, and (hews how full of emphacicab meaning is the curie of a severe creditor, who pronounces his debtor’s doom to- rot in gaol. I believe I have learned the full import of this sentence, from the vast numbers who, to my certain knowledge, and some of them before my eyes, have periihed by the gaol-fever.

But the mischief is not confined to prisons. Not to mention now the number of Jailers, and of families in America, that have been infefted by transports;—multitudes caught the distemper by going to their relatives and acquaintance in the gaols: many others from prisoners discharged; and not a few in the courts of judicature.

In Baker’s Chronicle, page ^SZ, that historian mentioning the assize held in Oxford cattle i J77 (called from its fatal consequence the black office) informs us, that'" all “ who were present died within forty hours: the lord chief baron, the sheriff, and “ about three hundred more.” Lord chancellor Bacon ascribes this to a disease brought into court by the prisoners; and Dr. Mead is of the fame opinion.

The first of theft two authors Lord Bacon, observes, that, ,c the most pernicious “ infection next the plague, is the smell of a jail j when the prisoners have been “ long and close and nattily kept: whereof me have bad, in our time, experience twice or “ thrice , when both the judges that fat upon the jail, and numbers of those who “ attended the business, or were present, lickened and died."f

At the Lent assize in Taunton, 1730, some prisoners who were brought thither from Ivelchester gaol, infected the court; and lord chief baron Pengelly j Sir James Sheppard, sergeant; Joint Piget, Esq. sheriff, and some hundreds besides, died of the gaol-distemper. At Axminster, a little town in Devonshire, a prisoner discharged from Exeter gaol in 1755, infefted his family with that disease; of which two of them died; and many others in that town afterwards.—The numbers that were carried off by the fame malady in London in 17JO, two judges, the lord mayor, one

I have in my poitession a large copper-plate, first pubtiihed in 1772* by Sir Stephen Tbetdcre JcnJfen, shewing the number of malefactors executed in London for the twenty-three preceding years; and the' crimes for which they Suffered. I will give an abridgment of it in a table at the end of the book. In it will be seen, that the total number of executions in London for those twenty-three years, war 678; the annual average is between 29 and 30. I leave to others the difeuffion of the questions, whether those executions were too numerous ? whether all the crimes for which they were inflicted, were deserving of death?. An ingenious writer, Mr. Edent Principles of Penal Larw> page 306, observes that *c the accumulation of sanguinary laws is the word distemper of a Hate. Let it not be supposed, that << the extirpation of mankind is the chief object of legislation. A nd it may be left to any one to judge, whether, including debtors and petty offenders, the nomber of those that died in the several London prisons of the gaol-fever, does not exceed the number of those that were executed annually during that time. I have not the number of executions in all the counties, but am well assured it falls still much shorter of the number that perished in prisons.

f Natural History, Exp. 914. See also PUt's History of Oxfordihire, p. 25.

C alderman.

IO

GENERAL VIEW OF

Viciotri

Examples.

alderman, and many of inferior rank, are -too well known to need the mentioning farther particulars.

Sir John Pringle observes, that “jails have often been the cause of malignant leversand he informs us, that in the late rebellion in Scotland, above two hundred men of one regiment were infefted with the jail-fever, by some deserters brought from priions in England.

Dr. Lind, physician to the royal hospital at Haflar, near Portsmouth, shewed me in one of the wards a number of sailors ill of the gaol-fever, brought on board their ship by a man who had been discharged from a prison in London. The ship was laid up on the occaiioc. That gentleman, in his Effaj on the Health of Seamen, aliens, that “ The lcurce of infection to our armies and fleets are undoubtedly the jails; we can “ often trace the importers of it directly from them.—It often proves fatal in impref-" ling men on the hasty equipment of a fleet, f—The first English fleet sent last war “ to America, loft by it above two thousand men.” In another place he allures us, that “ the feeds of infection were carried from the guard-ships into our (quadrons— “ and the mortality, thence occasioned, was greater than by all other diseases or “ means of death put together.” J

It were easy to multiply instances of this mischief; but those which have been mentioned are, I presume, sufficient to shew, even if no mercy were due to prisoners, that the gaol-distemper is a national concern of no small importance.

The general prevalence and spread of wickedness in prisons, and abroad by the discharged prisoners, will now be as ealily accounted for, as the propagation of dileale. It is often said, “ A prison pays no debts; ” I am sure it may be added, that a prison mends no morals. Sir John Fielding observes, that “ a criminal “ discharged—generally by the next sessions, after the execution of his comrades, “becomes the head of a gang of his own railing:”—improved, no doubt, in flcill by the company he kept in gaol. And petty offenders who are committed to bridewell for a year or two, and spend that time, not in hard labour, but in idleness and wicked company, or are sent for that time to county gaols, generally grow delperate, and come out fitted for the perpetration of any villany.— Half the robberies committed in and about London, are planned in the prisons, by that dreadful afiemblage of criminals, and the number of idle people who vifxt them.— How contrary this to the intention of our laws with regard to petty offenders; which certainly is to correct and reform them ! Instead of which, their confinement doth notoriously promote and increase the very vices it was ddigned to supprels. Multitudes of young creatures, committed for some trifling offence, are totally ruined there. I make no scruple to affirm, that if it were the wilh and aim of magistrates to effect the destruction present and future of young delinquents, they

Observations on the Diseases of the Army, fegei 47, 296.

t Pagt 3°T-

t Peg! J.

could

Sect. I.

DISTRESS IN PRISONS.

li

could not devise a more effectual method, than to confine them so long in our prisons, those feats and seminaries (as they have been very properly called) of idleUefs and every vice.

Shall these irregularities, the sources of misery, disease, and wickedness, be endured in a nation celebrated for good sense and humanity; and who from these principles, do treat one fort of prisoners with tenderness and generosity ? I mean prisoners of war. These have provision in plenty; some to spare and fell to the ioldiers on guard;* we frequently saw their stated allowance hung up for their inspection. Some prisons have large areas for them to walk in; and at night every man had a hammock to himself. It is the farthelt thing in the world from my wish to deprive captives of any one of these benefits—I am only desirous of seeing the fame humanity shewn to our own countrymen in distress; lo that a confident and uniform practice may prove our benevolence to be a firm and deady principle; and that those who are censorious may find no occasion for aferibing our kind usage of foreigners to a less amiable motive.

Here it will be said, prisoners of war are not felons, nor yet debtors; and government is sometimes, at the end of a war, reimbursed the expence of maintaining the m. This latter I believe is fast; and the former is true without diipute: we do not look upon foreign enemies, nor they upon us,f as either debtors or felons: we cut one another to pieces in battle, but when that is over we grow cool and compassionate. I grant there is a material difference in the circumstances of foreign and domedic

I am now speaking of the prafiice the war before lait. The daily allowance, to fix prisoners was, nine pounds of bread—four pounds and a half of beef—three pints of pease, four days in a week—fix quarts of beer,—On Friday they had not the beef; but a pound and a half of butter inltead of it.— On board the men of war, indeed, they were upon short allowance.

11 must not be understood here to mean a compliment to the French. How they then treated English prisoners of war, I knew by experience in 1756; when a Lisbon packet (the Hanover) in which I went passenger, in order to make the tour of Portugal, was taken by a French privateer. Before we reached Brert, 1 i'uffered the extremity of third, not having for above forty hours one drop of water; nor hardly a morsel of food. In the cafile at Brest, I lay fix nights upon lltaw: and observing how cruelly my countrymen were used there, and at Morlaix, whither 1 was carried next; during the two months I was at Carhaix upon parole, I corresponded with the English prisoners at Brest, Morlaix, and Dinnan: at the lait of those towns were several of our ship’s crew, and my servant. 1 had sufficient evidence of their being treated with such barbarity, that many hundreds had periihed; and that thirty-six were buried in a hole at Dinnan in one day. When I came to England, Hill on parole, I made known to the commissioners of lick and wounded teamen, the sundry particulars: which gained their attention, and thanks. Remonfirance was made to the French court: our sailors had redress; and those that were in the three prisons mentioned above, were brought home in the first cartel-ships.— A Lady from Ireland, who married in France, had bequeathed in trull with the magistrates of St. Malo’s, sundry charities; one of which was a penny a day to every English prifisner of war in Dinnan. This was duly paid; and saved the lives of many brave and useful men.—Perhaps, what I Jmffered on this occasion, increased my sympathy with the unhappy people, whose calc is the subject of this book.

C 2 prisoners.

BAD CUSTOMS.

prisoners, but there is none in their nature. Debtors and felons, as well as hostile foreigners, are men, and by- men they ought to be treated as men.

Those gentlemen who, when they are told of the misery which our prisoners fulfer, content themselves with saying. Let them take care to keep out, prefaced perhaps, with an angry prayer; seem not duly sensible of the favour of Providence which distinguishes them from, the sufferers: they do not remember that we are required to imitate our gracious Heavenly Parent, who is kind to the unthankful, and to the evil: they also forget the vicissitudes of human affairs , the unexpected changes to which all men are liable: and that those whose circumstances are affluent, may in time be reduced to indigence, and become debtors and prisoners. And as to criminality, it is possible, that a man who has often shuddered at hearing the account of a murder, may on a sudden temptation commit that very crime. Let him that thinks be Jlandeth take heed left he fall, and commifcrate those that are fallen.

But it may be said, enough of the declamatory kind has been written by Others. Much it is true, has been written: and I beg leave to transcribe almost verbatim a few lines from a celebrated author, which may be thought to come under that description. After representing the sufferings of prisoners, he goes on to this purpose, “ The misery suffered in gaols is not half their evil; they are filled with every fort “ of corruption that poverty and wickedneis can generate: with all the shameless '* and profligate enormities that can be produced by the impudence of ignominy, “ the rage of want, and the malignity of despair. In a prison the check of the public eye is removed; and the power of the law is spent. There are few fears, “ there arc no bluihes. The lewd inflame the more model!; the audacious harden “ the timid. Every one fortifies himself as he can again!! his own remaining fenfibility; endeavouring to practise on others the arts that are pradiftd on himself; “ and to gain the applause of his worst associates by imitating their manners. ”

Besides the grievances already mentioned; there are several had customs in gaols, and relating to them, which aggravate the distress of prisoners. I shall enumerate these distinftly, yet concisely.

SECTION II.

BAD CUSTOMS IN PRISONS.

A CRUEL custom obtains in most of our gaols, which is that of the prisoners demanding of a new comer Gamifk, footing, or (as it is called in fomc London gaols) chummage. “ Pay.or strip,” are the fatal words. I say fatal, for they are fb to some; who having no money, are obliged to give up part of their scanty apparel;

and

Garnish.

Sect. II.

BAD CUST^OMS. 13

and then if they have no bedding or straw to deep on, contract diseases, which I have known to prove mortal.*

In many gaols, to the garnish paid by the new comer, those who were there before make an addition; and great part of the following night is often spent in riot and drunkenness. The gaoler or tapiler finding his account* in this practice, generally answers questions concerning it with relinftance. Of the garnish which I have let down to sundry prisons, I had my information from prisoners who paid it. But I am aware that the sum is lometimes varied by lets of succeeding prisoners, and the different circumstances of a new comer. In ibme gaols, if a felon can pay the debtors garnish (which is commonly more than that of the felons) he is entitled to partake of the garnish paid afterwards by new-come debtors. In a few places, this demand has been lately waved; in two or three, strictly prohibited by the magistrates.

Gaming in various forms is very frequent: cards, dice, Ikittles, mifiilippi and Gamikg. portobello-cables, billiards, fives, tennis, &c. In the country the three first are mod common; and especially cards. There is scarce a county gaol but is furnished with them: and one can l’eldom go in without seeing jSrifooers at play. In London, all the forts that I have named were till lately in ufc. I am not an enemy to diverting exercise: yet the riot, brawling, and profaneness, that are the usual consequences of their play; the circumstances of debtors gaming away the property of their creditors, which I know they have done in some prisons to a considerable amount; accomplishing themselves in the frauds of gamblers, who, if they be not themselves prisoners, are lure to haunt where gaming is prafticed; hindering their fellow-prisoners from walking in the courts while they play, of which inconvenience I have heard them complain: these seem to me cogent reasons for prohibiting all kinds of gaming within the walls of a prison.

Loading prisoners with heavy Irani, which make their walking, and even lying Iroks. down to ileep, difficult and painful, is another custom which 1 cannot but condemn.

In some county gaols and even bridewells the women do not escape this severity: but in London they do: and therefore it is not necessary in the country, f The practice mull be mere tyranny: unless it proceed from avarice; which I rather suspedl; because county gaolers do sometimes grant diipenfations, and indulge their prisoners.

” In the year 1730, Nicholas Bennet, Joseph Robinlhn, John Head and George Taverner, were indisted at the Old Bailey for robbing John Berrisford of two half-guineas, two lixpences, and two *‘ halfpence, in New Priion under the pretence of garnish, which fast being plainly proved, they <( were all found guilty of an assault and robbery; and to deter others from the infamous and inhuman practice of taking the money, and if they had none, of dripping poor prisoners that were upon any *‘ account committed to prison, lb that often-times they have perished for want of cloathing and “ necessaries, they received sentence of death.” Burtons New Niew of London, page 468.

f Lord Loughborough, Lent al&ze 1782, at Thetford laid a fine of £20 oh the gaoler of Norwich cadle, for putting irons on a woman.

men

14

BAD CUSTOMS.

men as well as women, with what they call “ the choice of irons, ” if they will pay for it.

The author of A Letter to Sir Robert Ladbroke on Prisons (particularly on Newgate, which was then to be rebuilt) cites in page 79, the opinion of Lord Coke, Horn's Mirror efjufi'ue, &c. against this opprefSon; and adds afterwards, “ The learned editor of “ Hale's LRftorj of the pleas of the crown likewise declares, that fetters ought not to “ be used, unless there is just reason to fear an escape, as where the prisoner is unruly, “ or makes an attempt to that purpose; otherwise, notwichltanding the common “ practice of gaolers, it leans altogether unwarrantable, and contrary to the mildness “ and humanity of the laws of England, by which gaolers are forbid to put their “ prisoners to any pain or torment. ”

The Gentlemen of the Gaol-committee, who distinguished themselves by an accurate and zealous inquiry into the abuses practiced by gaolers; in their Report concerning the Fleet prison, 20th March 1728, after mentioning a petition presented to the judges by one who had been put in irons by the wardens, informs us, that the judges reprimanded the wardens, and declared, that “ a gaoler could not answer the ironing of a man before he was found guilty of a crime.”—To the plea which gaolers use in defence of this practice, that “ It is necessary for safe custody, ” an answer may be given in the words of lord chief justice King (afterwards Lord chancellor) to the wardens of the fame prison, when he forbade dungeons, which they had made use of That judge declared, “ they might raise their walls higher, &c.” See the Report of the fame Committee. To what lord King suggested of raising the walls, one might presume to add—The number of turnkeys should be increased in proportion to the number of prisoners.—If the daring character of our felons should seem, after all, to make it necessary to confine them in irons, it would be right, at least, to bring them inro court without irons, unless they have escaped, or attempted it before their trial, -f-

This Committee is celebrated by Thsmfen, in his poem entitled Winter, 340, Ac. pr. edit. 1738.

-----Can I forget the generous few.

Who, touch'd with human woe, redrefiive lought Into the horrors of the gloomy jail r L'npitied, and unheard, where nailery moans;

Where acknefs pines-----

Hail Patriot Band ! who, scorning secret scorn.

When Indice, and when Merc)' led the way,

Dragg’d the detected mongers into light.

Wrench’d from their hand Oppression’s iron rod.

Mach dill untooch’d remains-----

Mach 15 the Patriot’s weeding hand requir’d.

t It is the law of the land, and certainly ever hath been so, that a prisoner ought not at any time “ to be charged with fetters; nnlefs the jailer be contained to have reconrfe to them by the actual ‘ necefity of safe custody. ” Principle! of Penal Lerzc, p. x8~.

The

Sect. II.

BAD CUSTOMS.

The Marquis Beccaria, in his EJfay on Crimes and Punishments, page 7 5, observes that “ Imprisonment, being only the means of securing the person of the accused,

“ until he be tried—ought—to be attended with as little severity as possible.”—

The distreis occasioned by chains is increased by

Varying the towns where quarter-sessions and allizes are held: so that prisoners have Vaayinc to walk in irons ten or fifteen, miles to their trial: and sometimes to towns that have Towns. no prisonj where numbers of both fcxes are Ihut up together for many days and nights in one room. This occasions such confufton and distress, and such lhrieks and outcries, as can be better conceived than described. Surely prisoners ought to be conveyed in carts; or else committed at first to the town where the sessions or allizes are to be held. And in that town a proper prison ought to be built.

Gaol-delivery is in foine counties but once a year. What reparation can be made to c.aoi-a poor creature for the misery he has suffered, and the corruption of his morals, by Deliveay. confinement in a prison near twelve months before a trial, in which, perhaps he is at last declared by his country not guilty

The judicious Marquis, whom I quoted above, asserts, that “ Privation of liberty “ being a punishment, ought not to be inflicted before condemnation, but for as “ short a time as possible. ” And in cases of guilt, his doctrine is, “ The more “ immediately after the commission of a crime, a punishment is inflicted, the more “ jull and useful it will be.” This sentiment is illustrated by a variety of acute remarks in the chapter of the Advantage of immediate Punishment. My mind reverts to an admirable thought of Mr. Eden’s; Principles of Penal Law, page 330. “A very “ flight reflection, on the numberjefs unforeseen events which a day may bring forth,

“ will be sufficient to Ihew that we are all liable to the imputation of guilt; - and “ consequently all interested, not only in the protection of innocence, but in the “ assignilient to every particular offence, of the smallest punishment compatible “ with the safety of society.”

One cause of gaol-delivery being so seldom, is in some places the expence of entertaining the judges and their retinue. At Hull they used to have the assize but once in seven years. Peacock a murderer was in prison there near three years: before his trial the principal witness died; and the murderer was acquitted. They now have it once in three years.

Although acquitted prisoners are by the late act in their favour* cleared of gaolers fees; they are full subject to a similar demand made by Clerks of affrze and Clerks Ceerks of the peace; j- and detained in prison several days after their acquittal. At assize, Asiui, ic.

14th George III.

t See the Table of the Fees of the Clerks of Assize at the end of the book.

The Clerk of the Peace in one county demands as follows:

For larceny and acquitted, £\70 Whipped publicly* £1 3 4

Petty larceny, --184 Bastardv, - o 17 4

till

16

BAD CUSTOMS.

till the judges: at quarter-sessions, till the justices of peace leave the town; in order to obtain those fees, which the gentlemen say are not cancelled by the act. And yet the express words of it are. Acquitted prisoners “ shall be immediately Jet at large m open court." It is evident then, that all fees of the commitment in respect to the prisoner, are by this act totally abolished.

Since the-said act, the clerks of assize in feme circuits have started a new demand upon the gaoler, for the judge’s certificate of acquitment; viz. six shillings and eight pence for the first prisoner acquitted; and a shilling for each of the rest: or two shillings for every one. I have copies of two receipts given by the clerk of the Weftera circuit to the gaolers of Exeter -and Salisbury. 'One of them is as follows.: Received I April 1775 Mr. Sherry gaoler one pound eight shillings “ and eight pence for his certificate entitling him to his gaol fees for the county "of Devon per J. F* Clerk of the Assize."—The gaoler told me this was for twenty-three acquitted prisoners.

I was informed at Durham, that judge Gould, at the assize 1775, laid a fine of fifty pounds on the gaoler for detaining some acquitted prisoners, for the fees of the clerk of assize. But upon the intercession of the Bishop (proprietor of the gaol) the fine was remitted; and the prisoners set at large: the judge ordering the clerk of assize to explain to him in London the foundation of his demand.

One pretence for detaining acquitted prisoners is, that “ It is pollible other indictments may be laid against them before the judge leaves the town.” I call it a pretence, as the grand jury are often dismissed some days before that time, and because those who do satisfy the demands of the clerk of assize are immediately discharged. Another pretence is, the gaoler tells you he takes them back to knock off- their irons.” But this may be done in court: in London they have an engine or block, by the help of which they take off the irons with ease in a minute; the machine is brought into court, and the acquitted prisoner is immediately discharged. If, according to what I proposed, prisoners were tried out of irons, this pretext would be entirely removed.

Clerks of assize, and of the peace, ought most certainly to have a consideration for their service to the public: the thing I complain of is what I am led to by my subject, that is, the demand that is made directly or indirectly upon acquitted prisoners.*

The clerks of assize give to the judges large sums for their places. One of the present gentlemen gave for his place JTz$©o. On many acconnts these places ought not to be bcugbt of the judges. If they were only prtfemuJ, the fees might be much Io*ver.—The demand from the gaoler for a copy of the judge's calendar is dow^i; i: o: whereas hi-> Majesty’s Commissioners for inquiring into the officers and their fees 8cc. in the ffsmi Ctrcu/<, were of opinion that a demand not near so much was enormous, as we fee in Uieir report dated i& December 1755 (M. $. page 21;)

Paid by the gaoler of the County of Surry for the copy of a calendar £076

And by the gaoler of each of the other countys - - 050

* As to these too last Fees or articles, We arc of opinion that they are unreasonable and no ways “ to be jollified, ire.’*

Some

Sect. II.

NUMBER of prisoners.

*7

Some gaolers live disiant from the prison, In houses that do not belong to the county. Non-refldence is not consistent with the attention that is requiilte for securing the prisoners; and preserving good order, cleanliness, &c.—Over the door of feme of the houses of these keepers is wrote, “ Spirituous liquors fold here.”

Debtors crowd the gaols (especially those in London) with their fVvues and children. There are often by this means, ten or twelve people in a middle-sized room; increasing the danger of infection, and corrupting the morals of children. This point ought (no doubt) to be treated with tenderness. Man and wife should not be totally separated; but no women, unless prisoners, should ever be permitted to continue so much as one night in any prison; except, perhaps, when their husbands are dangeraufly ill. Yet the little probability there is of an industrious woman being of much service to her family in a prison: the number of men in the fame room; and of lewd women admitted under the name of wives j prove that this affair needs some regulation.

Some gaols are private property: in these the keepers, protefted by the proprietors, and not so subject as other gaolers to the control of magistrates, are more apt to abuse their prisoners, when a temptation offers. One of these gaols some years ago was quite out of repair, and unsafe; and the proprietor not choosing to repair ir, the gaoler to confine his prisoners took a method, that was really (hocking.* Some years before that, a prisoner in another of these gaols was tormented with thumb-screws. The grand jury took up the case, and remonstrated to the proprietor; but in vain. I had the account from a worthy friend of mine, who was upon that very jury.f

Of the complaints, which I have hitherto made only in general terms, I shall give instances in the account of particular prisons. To that account I refer, for evidence and fail.

NUMBER OF PRISONERS.

In the spring 1776, I summed up carefully the total number of prisoners in the sundry prisons. My lift was as follows:

1. In Middlesex, i. e. London and Westminster; together with three prisons in Southwark, viz. the King’s Bench, Marshalsea, and Borough-compter, 1. In the other thirty-nine counties of England, -

3. In the twelve counties of Wales,

4. In city and town-gaols, - -

Debtors. Feloui &C. Petty Offender*. Tom/.

1274 228 194 1696

752 617 4J9 1828

67 *7 -- 94

344 122 466

2437 994 653 '4084

See account of Ely gaol.

D

f Durham.

Petty

Gaolers

Non-

resident.

Wives

AND

Childrens

Gaols

Private

Property.

18

NUMBER OF PRISONERS.

Petty offenders in the Welch county gaols, blank in the third column third line, are included in the preceding number of felons &c. 27: mod: of the gaols in those counties being also the county bridewells.

Petty offenders, blank in third column fourth line, are included in the number 459 of petty offenders in the thirty-nine county gaols; and in the number 122 second column, fourth line.

All that were in the county-gaols besides debtors, I have reckoned in the lid of felons lie. although many were petty offenders and fines.

In the third column, under petty offenders are included a few felons occasionally committed to bridewells.

I have found by carefully examining sundry gaols, that, upon an average, two dependants (by which I mean wives and children*) may be assigned to each man in prison. My computation is confirmed by the account which we have from the benevolent society at the Thatched-house, March 27, 1782, as follows. Since their institudon in 177;,

Discharged debtors, - 7196

who had wives, - 43 28

and children, - 13126

Persons immediately benefited, - 24650.

We have farther confirmation by the account from the Bristol society, who in their lift published May 31, 1775, have

Persons discharged, - 73

who had wives, - 45

and children, -120

Total 238.

And I find by the account of the society for the discharge of persons imprisoned for small debts in Dublin, that a greater number of dependants are there assigned. For the number of persons discharged by the society from the institution on the 15th of May 1773, to May 1782, was - >134

Dependants on them, - - 3611

Total relieved 4745.

Each of these totals is considerably larger than the respective products of multiplication by my rule: the first exceeds by 3062, the focond by 19, and the last by 1343.—There is indeed commonly a surplus among debtors; but a deficiency among felons See. reduces the average of dependants to that which I stated.

I do nos inclode f&mst, many of whom I Jiave seen forrowfuily attending at prisons lharing in the difbn's arising from the confinement of their children.

and deeply

If

Sect. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

*9

If then to the total number in England and Wales, that is, 4084 You add twice that number of dependants, - - 8168

The number of the distressed is, - 12252.

It appears from the foregoing table of prisoners, that their number has been greatly magnified by conjedlural computations; but surely the real numbers, with those partaking of their distress, is an object worthy the farther attention of the

legislature.

It may afford some satisfaction to my readers, to fee at one view the number of prisoners in the counties of England and Wales, in 1779, and 1782. A table for this purpose shall be inserted at the end of the book.

S F. C T I O N. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT S'

IN- THE STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT OF PRISONS.

HOWEVER sanguinary the wish of an angry creditor may be when he arrests and imprisons his debtor; there is no doubt but every one who listens, not to his passions but to reason, mull: know and will own, that it is a flagrant crime to take away the life of a man for debt. And as to felony, a gaol is not designed for the final punishment even of that; but for the safe cujtady of the accused to the time of trial, and of convicts till a legal sentence be executed upon them. “ Humane “ treatment debtors have a claim to; nor can we confillently with any good “ principle, either of morals or government, refuse the fame to persons accused, “ or even to the moll atrocious convicts.” Principles of Penal Law, page J2. The

so

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

laws of England do not suffer private executions. No condemned malefactor may be secretly put to death; nor murdered in a prison directly or indirectly; much less ought those to be destroyed there whose sentence does not a (Fed their life. Their destruction is not only unjust; it is inconsistent with prudence and found policy. They might, no doubt, be ulefol at home or abroad; if proper care were taken of them in prison, to keep them healthy and fit for labour. But certain it is, that many of those who survive their long confinement, are by it rendered incapable of working. Some of them by scorbutic distempers; others by their toes mortified, or quite rotted from their feet; many instances of which I have seen. Messrs. Sitpbenfn and Rmdolf of Bristol, great contractors for transport convicts, complained of this to Mr. Biggs, gaoler at Salifoury, in their letter to him Sept. 13, 1774. I will transcribe their words. “ Sore feet prove very fatal. The mortality we met with in our last ship, if repeated in this, will so forfeit us, that " we shall never take another. We loft an immenl’e sum by them; and our ship is “ detained to this moment under quarantine. ”

If one who has turned king’s evidence, or has been barely acquitted upon trial; terrified by his narrow escape, seeks for honest employment; he is commonly such a sickly miserable figure, that no one will let him to work. That, I believe, is the principal cause of his being rejected; for there are several forts of labour that require but little confidence: yet the poor acquitted prisoner shall go from door to door asking for work, in vain. Is it not to be lamented, that every (park of good -intention, instead of being cherilhed, should be thus extmgaished ? and that the penitent should by an almost irresistible necessity be driven again, though reludant, to the practice which soon brings him back to his former mansion; and ihortens a wretched life, thfat might have been, that fain would have been, an useful one

In order to redress these various evils, the first thing to be taken into consideration is the prifurt itjelf. Many county-gaols and other prisons are so decayed and ruinous, or, for other reasons, so totally unfit for the purpose, that new ones mull be built in their Head. Others are very incommodious, but may be improved upon the ground about them, which is occupied by the keeper, or not used at all. Some need little more than a thorough repair. In order to give what little assistance I can to those who must build a new county gaol, I will take the liberty to fugged what hath occurred to me upon this head, in hopes that some more skilful hand will undertake the generous and benevolent talk of carrying to perfection a scheme, of which I can only draw the outlines. But first I will say a word of the

SJTUATION.

'Y»// 4/ ^u/u/^j/sy j,/ i// </j»j s/// y tsos/sctt/c/u^.y '/^YAl y/// .4 y~, S'

Sect. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

21

SITUATION.

A County Gaol, and indeed every prison, should be built on a spot that is airy, and if possible near a river, or brook. I have commonly found prisons situated near a river, the cleaned and most healthy. They generally have not (they' could not well have) subterraneous dungeons, which have been lo fatal to thousands: and by their nearness to running water, another evil, almost as noxious, is prevented, that is the stench of sewers.

I said a gaol Ibould be near a dream; but I mud annex this caution, that it be not so near as that either the house or yard shall be within the reach of floods. This circumdance was so little thought of at Appleby in Wedmorland, when their new gaol was Jirfi building, that I saw the walls marked from nine inches to three feet high by floods.

If it be not practicable to build near a dream; then an eminence should be chosen: for as the walls round a prison mud be so high as greatly to obstruct a free

circulation of air, this inconvenience should be lessened by a rising ground. And the prison should not be furtounded by other buildings; nor built in the middle of a town or city.

P L A N.

THE annexed engraving represents such a plan for a prison as, according to my ideas, unites the greated advantages with regard to security, health, and order.

By the aflidance of the references, it will explain itself better than can be done by a verbal description. I shall only subjoin a few general remarks on some particulars in the structure.

That part of the building which is detached from the walls, and contains the men-felons ward, may be square, or rectangular, raised on Arcades, that it may be more Abcades. airy, and leave under it a dry walk in wet weather. These wards over arcades are also bed for safety, for I have found that escapes have been most commonly effected by undermining cells and dungeons. When I went into Horlham gaol with the keeper, we saw a heap of Hones- and rubbish. The felons had been for two or three days undermining the foundation of their room; and a general escape was intended that night. We were but just in time to prevent it; for it was almost night when we went in Our lives were at their mercy: but (thank God) they did not attempt to murder us, and rulh out.—If felons should find any other means to break out of this raised ward, they will still be flopped by the wall of the court, which is

the ,

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

the principal securiry; and the walls of the wards need not then be of that great thickness they are generally built, whereby the access of light and air is impeded. Ever)' rooin should be vaulted; for I have known many poor creatures burnt to death, as at Halilead, &c. who would have been saved if such a precaution had been used. The ilaircafes of ail prisons should be stone.

1 wi!h to have so many fiaail reems or cabins that each criminal may fletp atone. These rooms to be ten feet high to the crown of the arch, and have double doors, one of them iron-latticed, for the circulation of air. If it be difficult to prevent their being together in the day-time: they should by all means be lcparated at night.* Solitude and lilence are favourable to reflection; and may possibly lead them to repentance. Privacy and hours of thoughtfulness are necessary for those who must soon leave the world; (yet how contrary to this is our practice 1 Keepers have assured me, that they have made £$ a day after the condemnation of their prifor.ers.)—In the Old Newgate there were fifteen cells for persons in this flotation, which are fcill left Handing, and are annexed to the new building. The like provision for such as return to society cannot be Iefs needful. Bishop Butler, one of the writers cited in the note, affirms that it is much more so, “ since it must be “ acknowledged, of greater consequence in a religious, as well as civil respect, how “ persons live than how they die.”

The reparation I am pleading for, tfpecially at night, would prevent cfcapes, or make them very difficult: for that is the time in which they are generally planned, and effected. This' also would prevent their robbing one another in the night. Another reason for reparation is, that it would free gaolers from a difficulty of which I have heard them complain: they hardly know where to keep criminals admitted to be evidence for the king: these would be murdered by their accomplices if put among them; and in more than one prison, I have seen them, for that realon, put in the women’s ward.

V.'here there are opposite windows they mould have fnuttersj but these should be open all day. In the men-fclons ward the windows mould be iix feet from the floor; there should be no gills; nor should the prisoners be allowed to stop them with straw. See.

I he Il'cmcr.-folcns ward should be quite dlftinct from that of the men , I and the young criminals from old and hardened offenders. Each of thcle three classes should

SC- the importance ef tho'iprirar ;c r ilreoply urged in z Ltner Sir Rchtrt LnJhrele, printed for O'.-.er, 17-1.— are aho a SyC.'.i/ Sir—in cf l:r'n Biixler preached before the rnnr’flrntes of London, A:-nil lath. 17:0. particularly page zo, &c. Ana Mr. Hanzoafi 8:h, roth, and aid Letters in his book entitled The Dtfedi of Police the Caoje ef Imouroirj, Sc c.

t By an act made in Ireland, 5 j of his prefen: Majesty, it is enacted, “ That in ail gaols hereafter :o be buiir, there may be diilioct apartments for the men and women; and that all gaolers, whose gaols will at prefcat admit of lack a diitia.'.ion, may be obliged to separate and keep apart the “ Cra'.rear A -.or. "

also

Sect. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

*3

also have their day-room or kitchen with a fire-place; and their court and offices all separate.

Every court IhoulcT be paved with flags or flat stones for the more convenient waihing it j and have a good Pump, or water laid in; both if possible: and the pump and pipes should be repaired as soon as they need it s otherwise the gaols will soon be offensive and unwholesome: as I have always found them to be in such cases. A small stream constantly running in the court is very desirable. In a room or Ihed near the pump or pipe, there should be a commodious Bath* with steps (as there is in some county hospitals) to walh prisoners that come in dirty, and to induce them afterwards to the frequent use of it. f It should be filled every morning, and let off in the evening through the sewers into the drains. There should also be a copper in the Ihed, to heat a quantity of water sufficient to warm that in the bath j for washing those that are sickly. There should likewise be an Oven: nothing so effectually destroys vermin in clothes and bedding, nor purifies them so thoroughly when tainted with infection, as being a few hours in an oven moderately heated. J

The Infirmary or sick wards should be in the mo ft airy part of the court, quite detached from the rest of the gaol, and raised on arcades. These rooms should never be without crib-beds and bedding. In the middle of the floor of each room there should be a grate of twelve or fourteen indies square, for a current of air; || covered with a shutter or hatch at night. The fame contrivance might also be convenient in the other wards. Besides the grate, it may be necessary to have in the wards of the infirmary, band-ventilators to freshen them every day. This machine is of excellent use when most wanted, and when the wind or fail-ventilator is of no service, that is, in calm weather. Dr. Hales (on the subject, page 12) (hews that it will supply seventy-five tons of air in a minute. But on farther oblervation, I am persuaded that ventilators are of little use in those gaols, where there are no dungeons; for if they have courts, and the rooms are a proper size, and have apertures, and are kept clean; and also lime-whited twice a year, there will be no danger of infectious disorders.

14th Georg* HI. Cap. XLIII.

f I might mention as an evidence of the advantage of Baths in piifons, that I have known instances where persons supposed to be dead of the gaol-fever, and brought out for burial; on being washed with cold water, have shewn signs of life, and soon after recovered. Even persons with the small-pox have fc*. nd advantage by the cold bath. Sec some remarkable instances in the appendix to Dr. tPatfon's At count of a Series of Experiments*

t See Dr. hind's EJftty on the Health of Seamen, p. 320 and 336.

II Dr. Lettfom*s successful method has proved the benefit of fresh air in putrid fevers. See his Medical Memoirs, /. 19, 57, 58, 62, &c. A putrid fever was lately in thepcor-house at Yarmouth, but by the airioefs of the situation was so mild, that many of the patients walked out with the spots on them.

The

Pump.

Bath.

Oven.

Infir-

mary.

Venti-

lators.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

The sewers or vaults of all prisons {hould be in the courts, and not in the passages, and (like those in the colleges) close boarded between the feats up to the cieling, the boards projecting ten inches before each feat.

The infirmary and sheds will not render the court unsafe, provided the walls have parapets, or ftnall cixveux de frise.

Sefaki- Debtors and felons should have wards totally separate: the peace, the cleanliness, Ttos or tj,e health and morals of debtors cannot be secured otherwise. The Ad aid and

D*to*s

up 23d Charles II. Chapter XX. requires this separation at night; that debtors may

Frtoss. not ke disturbed by the curies and other profane language of felons: “ Be it enacted,

—That they shall be put, kept, and lodged separate and apart one from another, “ in distinct rooms. ” These words do perhaps in the ftrid construdion imply no more than nocturnal separation. But surely it is a far greater mischief for debtors to be annoyed and corrupted by the wicked conversation of felons all day long, than to be disturbed by it in the night-rime. I am not deflgning to infer from hence, nor yet from the character of the Gentlemen who composed that parliament,

that the ad should be construed according to my view of the argument; or to what I conjecture was their intention. I know it is wrong to explain laws by such a vague principle as the supposed spirit of them. But it seems to me necessary that there should be a total separation: for where there is but one court, the lower class of debtors join with the felons in their diversions of fives, &c. and often become equally profligate: as at Worcester, Glocester, Salisbury, Aylesbury, Bedford, Iplwich, Bury, Leicester, &c. These different forts of prisoners are indeed generally separated at night. I do not recoiled more than one or two gaols where they lodge together, viz. the Borough-compter, Clerkenwell bridewell, the Devizes and St. Albans. I mult now add Tothillfields bridewell, where debtors are confined, since Westminster gatehouse is taken down. Constant separation is desirable. The gaol will determined by that means be kept cleaner: and if the small-pox, or the gaol-fever, should infeft one ward, the other 2t a distance may be free from it. This would also remove the objettion that is now made against permitting debtors to work: that is, the danger of their fumilhing felons with tools for mischief, or escape.

Wot 1- In the debtors ward there should be a day-room or kitchen; also a large -work-flop

%*°T- for such as are willing to work. Some few gaols have the latter; and in them I have seen balker-makert, shoe-makers, &c. employed in their several trades; pre-l’crying their habit of industry; contributing to the support of their families, and lightening the burthen that by their imprisonment falls on the respective parishes. Here I would ohlerve, that wherever the windows ar* glazed there should be case-ments 5 for 1 have found the debtors rooms, and passages of many town and city gaols, very offensive for want of apertures.

Prisoners indi3ed for felony should not be compelled to work. But I have heard many of them wilhing the y might be permitted to earn something for their more

comfortable

Sect. III.-

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

2J

comfortable support. In some few gaols they have this privilege, as at Exeter, Norwich, Ipswich, &c.*

I had said in my first edition, that Women-debtors should have a- ward, a court, a pump, &c. to themselves; and no communication should be allowed between the two {exes: but observing that there are so few women-debtors in prison (the number of whom may be seen in the table) I leave it to the consideration of the justices, whether a room or two in the gaoler’s house may not be as-convenient as a separate ward.

The Ward far mat-debtors should also be over arcades, and placed on one fide of the gaoler’s house. This house should be in or near the middle of the gaol, with windows to the felons and the debtors court. This would be a check on the prisoners to keep them in order j and would engage the gaoler to be attentive to cieanliness and constant walhing, to prevent his own apartments from being offensive.

A Chapel is necessary in a gaol. I have chosen for it what seems to me a proper lituation. It should have a gallery for debtors or women j for the latter should be out of fight of all the other prisoners; and the rest may be separated below. Bibles and prayer-books should be chained at convenient distances on each fide-: chose who tear or otherwise damage them should be punished.

(

REGULATIONS.

WITHOUT a due attention to the ceconomy and government of a prison, it is evident that no contrivance of llruchire can secure it from being the abode of wickedness, disease, and misery; I shall therefore offer a few hints for the better regulation of a gaol.

The first care must be to find a good man for a gaoler; one that is honest, active, and humane. Such was Abel Dagge, who was formerly keeper of Brillol Newgate. I regretted his death, and revere his memory. And such is George Smith, keeper of Tothill-fields bridewell.

This officer mult be sober himself, that he may, by example, as well as authority, restrain drunkenness, and other vices in his prison. To remove a strong temptation to the contrary, it is highly requisite that no gaoler, turnkey, or other servant be

The debtors at York, Lincoln, Norwich, Ipswich, Chelmsford, &c. employ themselves in knitting and weaving purses, garters, nets, laces, tcc. This is an ealy and amuling employment, and might be established in any prison, even among felons. For the art may be learned in a week’s time, and no dangerous instruments are necessary. But then they matt have proper rooms and courts for their work.

E fullered

WoMEK-

Debtoes.

Debtors

Wars.

Chavez.

Gaoler.

26

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

T.r. fnffered to hold the Tap; or to have any connexion, concern, or interest whatever in the sale of liquors of any kind. Gaolers who hold, or let, the tap, find their account in not only conniving at, but promoting drunkenness and midnight revels, io that most of our gaols are riotous ale-houses and brothels. What profligate and debauched company of both sexes, do we fee let into our gaols, that the tap may be kept running! Even condemned criminals are sometimes heated with liquor till they become outrageous, as Lewis was, who was executed at Leicester in 1782. Betides this, the gaoler’s interest in the sale of liquors, may prompt him to be partial in his behaviour to his prisoners; to treat at least with neglect, those who are poor and have nothing to spend, which is the case of far the greater number: while he thall caress dithonest debtors, who rake Ihcltcr in a prison, in order to live there in riot upon the property of their creditors. I am persuaded there would be fewer debtors in prison if there were no taps, and they were restrained from riot and drunkenness.

I know that by the statute of 3id George II. a debtor has a right to send out of the gaol for liquor and other necessaries.* This is a very judicious provision; and very beneficial to prisoners, where they have the free use of it.j- But some keepers there are, who find ways to restrain this privilege, for the profits of their tap: whereas-if they were prohibited from all concern in the sale of liquor, this would not only remove that check, and restore to prisoners the enjoyment of the liberty they are entitled to; but would allb be the means offuppreffing much intemperance; and perhaps of abolishing garnish, as well as clubs or night associations.

That it is necessary to deprive gaolers of all profits arising from the tap, I am convinced, not by mere (peculation, but by what I have learned from conversation with gaolers themselves. I alked two of them, whom I found candid and intelligent, What they thought would be the most likely means of effefHng a “ thorough reformation in gaols ?” The answer I had from both, was to this purpose, " Let no licences be granted for felling beer or wine in gaols: let it be made some “ other way worth our while to keep them.”

Gaolers should have salaries proportioned to the trull and trouble; since no office, if faithfully and humanely administered, better deserves an adequate encouragement: yet not so much as to raise them above attention to their duty, and the daily in-ipe&ion of their gaols.

The Gaol-Committee, which I have mentioned before, in their report of the Marshalsea prison, 14th May 1729, after enumerating many mischiefs which they'

Wine is not a necessary, therefore I could wiii it were under the fame restriction as spiritnous liquors jn all prisons.

t “ At his free will and pleafare, to fend for, or to hare brought to him'—at feasonable times in the d2y-time, any beer, ale, victuals, or any other necessary food.*’

found

Sect. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

27

found had been occaGoned by the gaoler’s holding or letting the tap, draw the following concluGon; “ This lhews the inconveniency of the keepers having the “ advantage of the tap-house, Gnce to advance the rent thereof, and to consume “ the liquors there vended, they not only encourage riot and drunkenness, but also “ prevent the needy prisoner from being supplied by his friends with the meer “ necessaries of life, in order to increase an exorbitant gain to-their tenants.”

When I was in Ireland (January 1775) f°und not without some surprise, that no liquors were permitted to be sold by gaolers in any of the prisons which I then viGted. Upon inquiry, I learned that there is an act against it, made in the third year of his prefenc Majesty.*

No prisoner should be a turnkey.—It is the gaoler’s duty to inspect the wards himself every day, that he may fee they are clean, and not to leave this to servants.f He {hould open and unltop the windows, and order the bedding out to be aired, and the cribs to be taken out and washed, otherwise they will gather dirt, and answer no salutary end. The magistrates of Glasgow J have expressly ordered that " The “ gaoler every morning and evening, at the opening of, and before the {hutting “ up the prison, {hall personally visit every room and place therein.”

He must encourage and promote cleanliness. For this reason an old or infirm man {hould not be a gaoler: when that is the case, all is commonly dirty.-—He /hould be compassionate to the Gck.—If he distributes the allowance, he must do justice to the COUnty, Or City, and to his prisoners, by giving to the latter their full stated quantity.

I have said before, a gaoler {hould not live at a distance from his prison. || He should not only reftde on the (pot, but be constantly at home. Prisoners generally take advantage of his absence.—For this reason, no keeper of a prison (bould be a

The preamble runs thus, “ Whereas many frauds and abates have been committed by gaolers* “ exacting exorbitant fees, brewing of drink, and baking of bread, which they oblige their prisoners << to take from them at their own rates —Be it enabled — that no gaoler or any person in trull for him, shall brew or bake in the gaol—or in any place—for sale, or keep any Ihop for the telling of bread, 4< or beer, or ale, or other liquors, under the penalty of five pounds for every such offence.*'

f In my first joumies many county gaolers excused themselves from going with me into the felons ward. In York castle (in 1774) the felons told roe once and again that the gaoler had not been in their ward for months. I would not have quoted a report from felons, if the turnkey, who was present, had not confirmed their testimony.

I I ought not here to omit my grateful acknowledgment of the politenefr and civility of these Gentlemen, who, on my visit to the place in January 1775, did me the honour of presenting me with the freedom of the city, in a manner truly hospitable and obliging.

U The bad consequences of a contrary police I have often teen and lamented; particularly at Dublin in the old and new gaol.

E 2

Sheriff’s

aS

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

Sflctirr's

OpriCER.

Chaplain.

Sheriff’s efficer. Such arc very often abroad: and some of them have acknowledged to me, that their bufidcfs as officers was incompatible with their duty as gaolers.

I had the pleasure to find a Chaplain appointed to mod: of the county gaols; in consequence of the act made the 13th of his present Majesty. When this office is vacant, it behoves magistrates not to take the first clergyman who offers his service, without regarding his real character. They should choose one who is in principle a Christian: who will not content himself with officiating in public; but will converse with the prisoners; admonish the profligate; exhort the thoughtless; comfort the lick; and make known to the condemned, that mercy which is revealed in the Gejpel.

In the Life of Bernard Gilpin, page 173, the writer, speaking of his labours, informs us, that wherever he came, he used to visit all the jails and places of confinement; “ few in the kingdom having at that time any appointed minister.” And by his affectionate add refs “ he is said to have reformed many very abandoned persons in those places."*

In some prisons where there is a chaplain appointed, no worship is fixed for Sunday: in some where that day is fixed, the chaplain, choosing his hours, comes sometimes too soon in the morning, sometimes between morning and evening service, at the prisoners dinner-time. In some there is no fixed day at all; consequently (as I have too often found) the service is totally omitted.—It would be proper to have sermon and prayers once, at leaf!, on the Lord’s day :j- and prayers two fixed days in the week besides. And if a chapter of the New Testament were read daily by one of the prisoners to the rest, or by the gaoler, before the distribution of prison allowance, the time would not be mispent. The reader, if a prisoner, might be allowed a small weekly pension.—The gaoler should not, as some do, hinder any prisoner from attending divine service. He ought to remove every hindrance. And, on Sunday especially, no visitants should be admitted during that time. Visitants who are there, should go out or attend. The chapel bell should ring ten minutes before divine service. Upon asking at more places than one, “ Why there were so few prisoners at prayers?” I have been answered, “They are drinking with their friends.” I have heard some worthy clergymen lament the little success attending their labours in prisons, which they attributed to the sale of liquors, and the want of a proper separation of the sexes. The gaoler should be constant at chapel with

In the reign of Queen Mery, this faithful minister of the Gospel was to have been a sacrifice. Bnt in his journey from Durham to London, where he expected to fnffer, his leg was broken by a fall from his horie: and by that circ am fiance Providence laved him from the fiery trial; for the bigotted Queen died before his recovery. In the seat reign he was promoted to the rich living of Houghton in Northumberland: and it was there he laboured, as is laid above.

t for on Sundays I have often seen debtors and others lying on their beds in the day-time; which I am perfoaded would cot hare been the case, if there had been divine fen-ice in the chapel.

his

Sect. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

29

his prisoners; and set a good example for them to follow. The chaplain who' officiates in the gaol may also officiate at the bridewell, where the distance will allow; and preach once a Sunday in each prison.*

It perhaps will be said, that I propose a great deal of duty , to these gentlemen. The act just recited allows a sum not exceeding fifty founds a year for their services. Many counties have fixed that salary; but I should hope that clergymen might be found who would act from a much nobler motive, a regard to the most important interests of their fellow-creatures.

The late act for frejerving the health of prisoners requires that an experienced Surgeon or Apothecary be appointed to every gaol: a man of repute in his profession. His business is, in the first place, to order the immediate removal of the sick, to the infirmary; and fee that they have proper bedding and attendance. Their irons should be taken off; and they should have, not only medicines, but also diet suitable to their condition. He must diligently and daily visit them himself; not leaving them to journeymen and apprentices. He should constantly inculcate the necessity of cleanliness and fresh air; and the danger of crowding prisoners together: and he should recommend, what he cannot enforce. I need not add, that according to the act, he must report to the justices at each quarter-sessions, a state of the health of the prisoners under his care, f

At Newgate there are commonly about two hundred prisoners. Here the danger to them, and to the City from them, is great. To this capital prison in the metropolis, the magistrates would, in my opinion, do well to appoint a pbyfidan, a Jurgeon, and apothecary. One of the two latter to visit each ward in the prison every day. The two Compters are near enough to be taken care of by the fame gentlemen; and they need to be visited as constantly. This attention would, in all probability, prevent the spread of any infectious disease in those gaols; and silence county gaolers, who, when their prisons are infefted, tell you (as I have often heard them) ,c The distemper was brought from Newgate, by prisoners removed from thence by habeas corpus. ”

No prisoner should be subject to any demand of Fees. The gaoler should have a salary in lieu of them: and so should the turnkeys; their wages should not be included in the gaoler's salary: and not only their pay, but the number of them

In the book of Common Prayer in Ireland, there is very properly inserted, A form of prayer for the viGtation of prisoners, treated upon by the Archbishops and Bishops, and the rest of the “ clergy of Ireland, and agreed upon by her raajesty’s license in their synod, holden at Dublin, in the year 1711.”

f In some foreign countries an officer of rank is obliged frequently to visit the prisons, with a surgeon. He ha3 a list of the prisoners, and fees each of them, and makes a report to the regency of their health, and the care that is taken of them.

Surgeon

Fees.

necessary

3°

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

Free V. A ft p

Ct£AS-

USEiS.

necessary for each prison, should be determined by the magistrates. Neither of those articles {hould be left to the interested appointment of a gaoler. If fees be not abolilbed, I am fur? they {hould be reduced; and so {hould the chamber-rents for master-lide debtors. In this matter (of the chambers) another regulation is also needful; that is, no middle-sized room {hould have more beds than two. The bedding and other furniture {hould be specified as to articles and value.

For commm-Jide debtors there {hould be a ward entirely free: they {hould not be subject to any demand of rent; as in many prisons they are. These prisoners {hould cither be alimented by their creditors without expence and delay j or have from the county the fame allowance of every kind as felons: food, bedding, and medicine.

In order to Cleanliness; than which scarce any thing in the whole ceconomy of a gaol is of more importance, the cieling and walls of every ward and room {hould be well fcrapcd j and then waihed with the bed stone-lime taken hot from the kiln, and flaked in boiling water and size, and used during the strong effer-vefcence;* at lead twice a year; jud after the Lent and Summer assize. Each ward and room {hould be swept, and wafbed every day, by the respective inhabitants; and sometimes with hot vinegar. Idle gaolers affect to excuse their negligence in this respedi, by pretending that daily walhing would make the rooms damp, and endanger the health of prisoners. This is mere pretence. I know the effect is directly contrary. There is not in England a prison more healthy, considering the number of prisoners, than Tothiilfields bridewell; where the rooms are waihed every day. The prisoners do the work by turns: and the healthiness of the prison is a demondration, that no inconvenience, but great benefit is the consequence.f In Newgate, the prisoner who sweeps the ward has a double allowance

This is called lime-white, although whiting is not an ingredient in it. Nothing is more cffeflual to destroy vermin, purify the air, and prevent infection. White-wafting is not only proper for cleanliness, bat attempts to escape are more ealily discovered in white than in dirty walls.

t From the general practice of foreigners in building their prisons near the water, it seems, that they had no'apprehensions of bad conferences arising from such a lituation; bat they were convinced of the neceSiry of cleanliness, and of the bad effects of oifenfive drains. Dr. lltbtrdtn has expressed his fentimenis en this subject in the Medical TraafaBient, faget 521, 5x4. “ In England few make

“ any doubt of the great danger attending wet rooms.—Is this opinion founded upon experience, or “ is it 3 prejudice, which has been fullered to grow up and get lbength merely for want of being ‘1 examined? If «t inquire into the arguments in favour of this notion, we stall hardly find any other, than the random conjectures of the fiefc about the cause of their illness; or than their artfully fubfiituting this origin of it instead of some other, which they arc nnwilling to own.—The air from *' rivers and from the sea is probably more replcnilbed with vapors, than inland countries cleared of *1 their woods; yet the most celebrated of antient physicians recommended the bank of a running “ river for the utu2iion of a house, on account of its peculiar heaithinefs; and many invalids are lent *' by ;be modern physicians to the sea fide, only for the benefit of the sea air.”

of

Sect. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

of bread.—Every prisoner should be obliged to wash his hands and face before he comes for his daily allowance; and to keep himself as neat as circumstances will admit. I have said before, there should be plenty of water in a prison and need not add now, that prisoners should constantly have free and easy access to it. Nothing can be more unreasonable than the pretences used among us to justify inattention and negligence. I cannot help taking this occahon to add the following authorities on this subject. All unprejudiced persons must acknowledge the absolute necessity of firejb air and cleanliness to preserve and promote health. To this purpose Dr. Mead writes, in his Discour/e concerning Pestilential Contagion, page 41, &c. gdedit. 1720. " Nothing approaches so near to the first original of contagion, as air pent up,

“ loaded with damps, and corrupted with the filthineis that proceeds from animal " bodies. Our common prisons afford us an instance of this, in which very few ,c escape, what they call the gaol-fever, which is always attended with a degree of “ malignity in proportion to the closeness and /tench of the place. And it would “ certainly very well become the wisdom of the government, as well with regard “ to the health of the town, as in companion to the prisoners, to take care, that all " bou/es of confinement, should be kept as airy and clean, as is consistent with the use, “ to which they are designed.”—And that “ as nastiness is a great fburce of infection, “ so cleanliness is the greatest preservative.”

Sir John Pringle, in his Anniversary Discourse at the Royal Society, on the subject of Captain Cook’s successful care of the ship’s crew in his voyage round the world, and the medal deservedly adjudged to him on that account, has the following passage at page 26. “ It is well known how much cleanliness is conducive to health; but it

“ is not lb obvious how much it also tends to good order and other virtues. That “ diligent officer was perfuaded—that such men as he could induce to be more “ cleanly than they were disposed to be Qf themselves, became at the same time " more sober, more orderly, and more attentive to their duty.” This remark is confirmed by an observation in the Spectator, No. 631. “ Several vices, destructive

“ both to mind and body, are inconsistent with the habit of cleanliness.”

Every prisoner who comes to gaol dirty, should be washed in the cold or warm bath; and his clothes should be put into the oven, in a sack on a pair of iron dogs. He should be provided with coarse walhing clothes to wear while his own are thus purifying: clothes should be kept ready in the gaol for this purpose.* Each prisoner should have a clean shirt twice a week. There should be in each ward a towel on a roller clean every day. Pails, mops, brooms, soap, vinegar, and fuel, should

It would be better if criminals wore to wear a kind of prism-uniform during the whole of their confinement, as I have seen practised at many foreign prisons. Among other good effects, this would make them more liable to be discovered on escaping. On the other hand, they should be tried in their mm chtthes, for the obvious reason that they may be more easily recognized by the witnesses.

be

J*

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

be supplied by the cnmty or town: otherwise gaols will never be -kept clean and wholesome.

No liable, hogcote or dunghill should be foffered in the court nor any fowls kept there, which I have often seen not only in the courts, but also in the rooms of many prisons. No gaoler should keep more than one dog, and none should be kept by any prisoner whatever. Sweepings, allies, &c. should be taken away twice Bedding, a week. If the Bedding is straw, it should be put in coarse canvass; if it is not so enclosed, it ought to be changed every week. Each bed should have a blanket and coarse coverlet, and not be laid on the floor, but on a crib-bedstead, which should be moveable for wa/hing the room. This would prevent infection by cutaneous disorders, which are common in prisons.—Sir John Pringle observes, page 51, ct There being no straw at Fort-Auguftus9 the men were ordered to cut the heath for €t bedding; and it was observable, that such as were tnoft careful in providing ee themselves with a due quantity, and renewing it often, were least sickly. ” May

As fumigation may sometimes be necessary in the rooms of prisons. I here give some extraS* from the account with which the ingenious Dr. Lind favoured me. of his successful method of purifying infected ships. Charcoal fires should he lighted in the morning, and allowed to remain till evening, and half a pound of brimstone thrown upon each; their faoke in the mean time being closely confined. They may he made in iron pots. This fumigation should be repeated every day for a fbrtnight. Every evening after the fumigation, the ports and hatchways should be opened, and the “ inside of the flap waihed with warm vinegar; and after the last fumigation, before the men retorn “ to the Slip, the decks should be thoroughly scraped and cleaned. If the infection has been very “ violent, the parts of the ship moll exposed to it may also be white-washed. Every thing ragged and " dirty should be destroyed, as also the clothes and bedding of such as brought the infection into the *' ship. the bedding of such as hare died of the fever, and unless the infection has been very mild, the bedding of such as have had the fever though recovered. The remaining clothes and bedding should be purified by being cxpofcJ twice a week to the steams of the brimstone and charcoal; or when the “ brimstone might be fopposed to injure the clothes, they may be hung up in a close place— *« exposed to the smoke of tobacco Arrived on charcoal fires. Linens, and such articles as will admit of being we:, should, after the first fumigation, be steeped lor several hours in cold water or leys, be well waihed, and then dried in the open air. If, during the fortnight of this fomigation, any * person is taken ill of the fever, the fortnight should again commence from the day on which such '* person leaves the ship. Strict attention should be paid to the deanliness of the men both in their persons 2nd apparel; such as are iluggifli and dirty should be made to bathe and clean themselves; '* and 3 fxuEcient quantity of flops should be iiTucd, that every man may have a change of clothes.9'

i have obferred in prisons abroad a very cheap and pleasant fumigation, which surprisingly corrects toe offenSvencfs of the bad air. I suppose it is the fame as is used in Roman catholic churches, viz. juniper berries thrown upon burning coals in a chafing-dish.

f The aS of parliament in Ireland, which I mentioned in a former oote, orders that No gaoler * or any person employed by him, shall prefame on any account to keep in the said gaols, or the * yard, or the houies adjoining thereto, and provided-for the ofe of such prisoners, any hogs, cows, * or other cattle, under the penalty of forty fktllings for such hog, cow, or other beast kept in the - laid gaol or prifoa.”

not

Sect. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

33

not one great caule of the unheakhinefs of our prisoners be, the want of proper bedding, which obliges them to fie in their clothes ? How different did the prisoners appear at Trieste from many that I have seen in Prussia and at Vienna'.

I was struck with the fame good appearance of the women prisoners at several of the spin-houses in Holland. This reminds me of what I heard an old general say,

“ That he always found his men subject to illness and diseases when they lay in " camps, not from dampness, but from lying in their clothes and the went of proper “ bedding; fox at the same time all his officers had been quite healthy and well.’’ Whatever be the cause of this difference, whether a more free perspiration in bed, taking off bandages, or ventilation of the clothes, I am fully convinced of the fail.

Prisoners should not remain in the day-time in the rooms in which they deep; they should have a common ward, day-room or kitchen, and an allowance of firing. They should also be made to get up early, and be called over—to their bread—and prayers. This would divert them, prevent them from deeping immoderately, and be conducive to health. The doors of all the wards should be open at fix in summer, and (even in winter.—Debtors should be locked up in their rooms at ten at night as in France and other foreign countries.

Those who drink only water, and have no nutritious liquor, ought to have at least a pound and Half of good household bread every day. The bread should be one day old, and then honestly weighed to them. If once a week (suppole qn Sunday) some of the coarser pieces of beef were boiled in the copper, and half a pound of the meat without bone given to each prisoner, with a quart of the broth, tilis Sunday dinner might be made an encouragement to peaceable and orderly behaviour: the turbulent and refractory should not have it. Such an allowance might help to remove a bad custom that obtains too generally, the pretence of refrelhing prisoners with better food and drink on Sunday; upon which many are admitted into the gaols, and keep the prisoners from chapel.

I date the allowance in weight, not money, because of the variable price. Besides that quantity of bread, each prisoner should have a penny a day in money for cheese, butter, potatoes, pease, turnips: or he should have an honed pennyworth of one of those articles.

Here, as in the tap, I mud infid upon it as highly necessary, that every gaoler, bridewell-keeper, turnkey, &c. be excluded from all concern in the prisoners allowance j from all profit arising directly or indirectly from the sale of their bread, or other food. Whoever didributes it, should be free from ail temptation to fraud: and be subject to a strong check. Scales and weights should be in all prisons, that the prisoners may fee that they- have their allowance. The whole allowance of prisoners should never be given them in money.—In Ireland, the minister of the parish where the gaol is, orders the felons bread j' and keeps (should keep) the account of it: for he is allowed by act of parliament the jd of Geo. III. Chap. XXVIII. a sum not exceeding ten pounds a year for the trouble.

F

Food.

The

34

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

No

Ciy 4R»ELS.

Dosa*

Tioys.

Licacizs.

T mi or

Fits, &c.

The reader will plainly lee, that I am not an advocate for an extravagant and frofitfe allowance to prisoners. I plead only for necessaries, in such a moderate quantity, as may support health and strength for labour. The law allows the poor debtor who is detained in prison, two shillings and four pence a week* (I wilh it were more easily obtained); and the government allowance to assize convicts under sentence of transportation is a little more, viz. two shillings and six pence, which the Iheriflf charges to government in his bill of cravings, presented at the expiration of his office.—And I believe upon the average price of bread, potatoes, &c. the allowance I have mentioned does not exceed those sums. I presume it may be thought rather incongruous to allow prisoners before trial (on which some of them may be found not guiltyJ less than is given to those that are convicted.

No fighting should be suffered in a gaol: no quarreling, or abusive language; nor the frequent occasion of them, gaming. If any one be injured, let him complain to the keeper, who mull hear both parties face to face, decide the matter, and punish the aggrefior by closer confinement. Faults that deserve more severe animadversion, should be referred for the cognizance of the magistrates, or an inspector.

Money sent, collected, or bequeathed, should be distributed by the magistrates impartially. Some of it might be laid out in tools, &c. for such debtors as will work.

The mention of Legacies reminds me of the need there is of a list of them painted legibly on a board , which should be hung up so as to be read by the prisoners. Very few gaols have such a table: and for want of it many legacies have been entirely loft; and the charitable intention of the testators frustrated. Yet care of legacies is expressly required by the act 3 ad George II. “ And it is farther enacted “ that it be given in charge to every grand jury impanelled and sworn, to make “ inquiry concerning the lame.”

In the like conspicuous manner should be hung up in every gaol an authentic Table of fees, till they all are abolished. This also is expressly required by the same act. Yet in many gaols it is totally disregarded, and they have no such table, and prisoners are exposed to the imposition of keepers.

In the act 24th George II. which prohibits the use of spirituous liquors in prisons or work-houses, it is expressly required, that every gaoler, keeper, mailer, &c. shall procure one or more copies of the three claufesy which contain the several articles of the prohibition, to be printed or fairly written, and hung up in one of the mod

public

53d Gftrgt It.

y In die prohibiting clauses, a fine of one hundred pounds is laid upon any gaoler, keeper, mailer, fcc. who shall fell, nfe, lend, or give away any such liquors; or knowingly permit them to be sold, nfied. dec. in the honfe; except they be prescribed by a regular pifyfician, Surgeon, or apothecary, to be cfed medicinally.—And a fine of ten pounds to twenty pounds, cr any time not exceeding three months imprifooment, for any person who shall bring such Iiqnors into the honfe. One moiety of these fines, as well as of that mentioned above, to the informer: the other moiety of each of the ttvo smaller Sees to the peiibnen; or, in the work-hoefe, to the poor.

I hare

Sect. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

public places of the prison or work-house, and renewed as occasion requires, under the penalty of forty shillings for every default.

There should also be a table of the diet or allowance to priibners: for want of which I have known them defrauded of a considerable part of their food: the whole of which is no where more than sufficient. The fame table should exhibit the particulars of bedding, draw, &c.

The act for preserving the health of prisoners requires that it be painted on a board, &c; not merely written or printed on paper, because that is more perishable, and liable to be torn. I have observed that those prisons were the cleaned in which the act was conspicuously hung up. The rules for cleanliness, and orders against garnish, gaming, drunkenness, quarreling, profaneness and obfeenity, should also be visibly exhibited; with the penalties for each of those crimes. The penalties should be fixed by the magistrates, or by law.—The table should also shew the hours of opening and (hutting the several wards; and of attending public worship. Besides setting down these hours in a table, notice should be given of them by a bell, as in the dock-yards. I have known prisoners absent from chapel, who said they would have been there, but did not know the service was performing.

It is expressly required by the act 32d Geo. II. that Rules and orders made, signed, and confirmed, as the table of fees, be drawn up for every prison, and hung up conjpicuous in it for the inspection of prisoners. f Yet in many prilbns neither tables of fees nor orders are to be seen; the latter in very few. Regulations relative to cleanliness and order, are as necessary for debtors as for felons j the want of them have often been lamented by keepers.

An Alarm bell would be extremely proper in every prison, in order to summon aflUtance in case of any insurrection, or general escape. The very idea of such a thing would greatly contribute to prevent the projecting of such schemes.

1 have not seen the clauses hung up in any nvori-bovfc. I shall in the sequel mark the numerous prisons ih.it have the fame deleft: X could also have mentioned prisons in which, notwithstanding the r.tl, spirituous liquors are freely used: I could even name gaolers who find ways to evade the act, and do themselves fell such liquors to their prisoners; and I have known the clauses against spirituous liquors hung up till the keepers had licences, after which they were no more seen. — I have seen so much of the bad effects of spirituous liquors, that X am persuaded a total prohibition of them would be greatly conducive to the health and morals of the community.—Dr. M‘Farlaat in his inquiries <M* ctming the Poor, page 30, fays, “ There is no vice that has ruined a greater number of tredefmen, or brought more families to misery, than this habit of drinking spiritous liquors.”

I mention this circumstance, that may seem trifling, as I know the disposition of prisoners to dcltrov the printed copies of the clauses against spirituous liquors.

t “ Be it also enabled—That the judges and justices of aflize—(hall, at all affizes—make inquiry “ whether such table of fees, and rules and orders^—are hung up and remain publick—and shall inform “ themselves—and supply and redrefs—and shall expressly give in charge to every grand jury impanelled and sworn before them respectively, to make inquiries concerning the fame. ’r

F 2

Finally;

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

I?? ‘PEC

Finally; The care of a prison is too important to be left wholly to a gaoler; paid indeed for his attendance, but often tempted by his passions, or interest, to fail in his duty. To every prison there should be an InJpcRor appointed; either by his colleagues in the magistracy, or by parliament.* Sheriffs and magistrates have indeed this power already; and prisons arc their immediate care. But some sheriffs excuse themselves from attention to this part of their duty, on account of the lhort duration, expence, and trouble of their office: and these gentlemen, as well as gentlemen in the commission of the peace, have no doubt been fearful of the consequence of looking into prisons. But the danger from such inspection is in great meafore abated: and it may be expected that sheriffs will now engage in this business; and that among justices, and town magistrates, there may always be found one man generous enough to undertake this important service. Or if the constant trouble be thought too much for one person, it may proceed by annual, quarterly, or monthly rotation. The inspector should make his visit once in a week, changing his days. He should take with him a memorandum of all the rules, and inquire into the observance or neglect of them. He should (as is done in some of our hospitals) look into every room, to fee if it be clean, &c. He should speak with every prisoner; hear all complaints; and immediately correct what he finds manifestly wrong: what he doubts of, he may refer to his brethren in office, at their next meeting.—A good gaoler will be pleased with this scrutiny: it will do him honour, and confirm him in his station: in case of a less worthy gaoler, the examination is more needful, in order to his being reprimanded; and, if he be incorrigible, he should be, discharged. This honourable delegate should have no salary: he should engage from the noble motive of doing justice to prisoners, and service to his country.—The great Dr. Tong fays “ If half the misery that is felt by some, were seen by others, it would (hock them with horror.” And the author of felemacbus makes this delicate remark, “ The prosperous turn away their eyes from the miserable, not through insensibility, but because the fight is an interruption of their gaiety.” If such motives prevail with those who think themselves under no obligation to shew pity to prisoners; finely magistrates should act upon a more righteous principle, and consider what is due from them.

I have often inquired of gaolers, whether the sheriffs, justices, or town-magistrates insped their gaols ? Many of the oldest have answered, “ None of those gentlemen ever looked into the dungeons, or even the wards of my gaol.” Others have laid, “ Those gentlemen think that if they came into my gaol, they should loon be in

The Vagrant 2ft i-th Gorge II. requires that two justices visit the houses of correction «» twice, or " ofteuer if need be, in every year; and to examine into the estate and management thereof, and to 'report, Src.” And that the joftices at anarter-lessions impose fines and penalties on the governors or matters who do not keep their prisoners to hard labour, and pnniih and con-eft them according to the directions of the warrants, Sec.

their

//.

/// X,-

B

Sect. III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

37

their graves.” Others, “ The justices think the inside of my house too dole for them; they satisfy themselves with viewing the outside.” Now if magistrates continue thus negligent of their duty, a general thorough reformation of our prisons mud; be despaired of What has been already obtained will soon be lofty and all will fink again into the former dreadful condition.

BRIDEWELLS.

If our bridewells be not more properly conducted, sending prisoners from them to county-gaols will defeat all the care of the most attentive gaolers, and the whole intention of the act for preserving the health of prisoners. And when offenders are discharged, they will spread disease and vice wherever they go: and instead of being amended, become an aggravated evil to society.

It is a shocking thing to destroy in prison the morals, the health, and (as is often done) the lives of those whom the law consigns only to hard labour and correction.—

One is charged with bastardy; another is abusive in a drunken quarrel: a young creature, who perhaps was never taught a moral lelfon, is guilty of some petty theft:—fend them to bridewell for a year, or two, which they mull: waste in idleness, hunger, dirt, and with companions much improved by such education.—If that prison be not lecure, fend them into still worse company j that of abandoned felons in the county-gaol. What is this but devoting them to destruction ? Many may date the total loss of every principle of honour and virtue, from their confinement in these schools of wickednels.

Every county and town that has a bridewell should be careful to fee, 'first of all, that it be suitable to the purpose. In many places the county-gaol is allb a bridewell.

But this prison^ought to be quite separate from the gaol: at least not within the same walls: nor should even the court-yard be common to both. The building mull be proportioned to the general number of delinquents. None of the rooms for confinement should be lower than the ground-floor; rather a llory above it.

Each Wark-rom should have a thorough-fare for air: but the opposite windows Work

need not be equal; the back windows half the size of those in front, and fix feet R0JM

from the floor.* Few or none of the windows should have glass; only blinds, similar to what are used in distilleries; f or lhutters, and these should be open

In all large rooms, where there are numbers of people, provision should be made for letting out the vitiated air at the top of them. ' See Dr. Pritjiley*i Experiments, &c. page 2St.

f See Plate II. J-etter A.

several

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

several hours in the day. The rooms, where the windows are not glazed, should have fire-places. The windows should be by no means towards the street, that spirituous liquors or files, &c. may not be conveyed to the prisoners. In the court-yard (for . such is necessary in every prison *) there should be a pump, or fame other provision for water in plenty. And prisoners should be permitted to walk about, when they have done working.

Wcit. For in work they ought, mol certainly, to be employed. This is indispensibjy requisite. Not one should be idle, that is not lick.'f Where the prisoners are numerous, there should be several work-rooms; and but few prisoners in one room. Thole who work by compulsion are more likely to be seduced to idleness in large companies, than when they are more solitary.—The keeper should be a mailer of Ibrne manufacture; J a man of activity, 1 prudence, and temper. And he should keep his prisoners at work ten hours a day; meal-times included.

For women, especially those that have children with them, and sometimes at the breast, there should be a chimney in one or two rooms: and in winter they should be allowed firing. I have known infants llarved to death for want of this. § In

some

By an act yth James I. Cap- IV. it is required that there be in ever)' county one Of IdOfC fit “ and convenient boafe or houses of correction, with convenient backside thereunto adjoining—Every 44 ju.lice of peace within every coanty—where such hoafe and backside shall not be erected or provided,’1 (within about two years) 44 /hall forfeit for his said neglect, five pounds of lawful Engli/h money; one moiety to the informer, the other towards crofting, building, &c. the /aid hoafe and backside.—And an act made in Ireland the loth and nth of Charles I. requires the fame, under the like penalty for neglect.

f Many are committed to bridewell to lire in idleness. Some warrants do not order them to labour. Magi&rates /kouid consider that prisoners confined for one or two years arc entirely rained; not only as to morals, but as to their capacity for labour; for. I have known some on going to work, immediately fall into a decline.

j The acts cited is a preceding note require that houses of correction have mills, tarns, cards, 44 and such-like necessary implements, to set rogues or other idle persons on work.*' And the act 17th Gcrrgs II. quoted in a former note, requires that the joilices at their quarter-sessions '* take effectual care that the houses of correftion—be duly fitted up, farnished, and supplied with sufficient implements, material5, and furniture, for keeping, relieving, setting to work, employing, and correcting all idle and disorderly perfoos, rogues, vagabonds, &c.”

jj It was remarked that a galrr should not be an old or infirm person; the fame cantion is requisite with regard to the keeper of a bridnxttt; since such an one would neither be able to keep the prisoners properly at work, nor to prevent their making their escape at the time of locking up, as I knew to happen at Prefion in Lancashire, and other places.

$ Not baring fuSciently infilled on the necessary of an allowance of firing in gaols, I take occasion here to obferVe, that this is aot only what humanity demands in our climate, but that it is efientiat to the preservation of the health of prisoners, by promoting the circulation of air, and preventing those mortifications of the feet to which they are so liable. 1 well know*, that the want of firing

joined

Sect. II!.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

39

some prisons where firing is allowed, the smoke has no vent but at the doors and windows.—There should be a separate room or two for faulty apprentices, as at Tothill-fields, Clerkenwell, St. George’s Fields, &c.* And two airy rooms for the lick: with medical relief. Men and women should be here entirely separated, as well as in gaols, to prevent the debauchery and vice so generally practised in our prisons. They should have work-shops, as well as night-rooms, separate. j-—There should be baths, and an oven, for the fame purposes as in the gaols.—In some county bridewells there are from ten to twenty prisoners, and in Tothill-fields and Clerkenwell many more. Great care should be taken to prevent infection 5 to keep the house clean, and well aired: and invariably to adhere to strict rules of sobriety and diligence, in order to correct the faults of prisoners, and make them for the future useful to society. Gentle discipline is commonly more efficacious than severity j which should not be exercised but on such as will not be amended by lenity. These should be punished by solitary confinement on bread and water, for a time proportioned to their fault. J Endeavours should be used to persuade the offender that he is corrected only

joined to (canty provision, has been the cause of great mortality in our prisons during the winter. In one of these houses three prisoners were starvcd to death, only one halfpenny being found on them all. I waited on the coroner (who from the humanity of our laws mull be applied to in such a case) and he acquainted me, that the verdict brought in was by the viftation of God, Otbcrwife, the keeper would have been liable to a prosecution for felony, and might have -been hanged $ whereas, the fault lay with the justices, who had ordered an allowance not sufficient to support nature.

Boys confined for correction should always be separate from other prisoners, and indeed from one another. A -kind and tender monitor should often fee them, and without tiring their attention, convcrfc with them as a parent or a friend.

f In all prisons, it would be an excellent improvement to have crib beds for each person, like those at Haflar, and the royal hospital at Plymouth. (See Plate II. B.) Thcfc may be made of call iron, without sides, nearly as cheap as of oak. The beds or cradles at Plymouth are fourteen inches from the floor: three feet one inch high at the head, and two feet three inches at the feet: fix feet two inches long, and three feet one inch wide in the clear. The boards on the sides (three feet eight inches long) Aide in an inch groove. A medicine box hangs by two hooks at the back of each cradle, which is necessary only in infirmaries. To these cradles are hair mattresses, bedding, &c. If offenders have only loose straw, though with a coverlet, they mull lie in their clothes, and of necessity be dirty and sickly objects. Therefore proper bedding is necessary. Without this, how can habits of cleanliness be produced and promoted in young creatures r or what disposition can such have for work

% The notion, that convicts are ungovernable, is certainly erroneous. There is a mode of managing fom« of the most desperate, with case to yourself, and advantage to them. Many of them are shrewd and sensible: manage them with ealmnefs, yet with steadiness: fiicw them that you have humanity, and that you aim to make them useful members of society: let them fee and hear the rules and orders of the prison, and be convinced that they arc not defrauded in their provisions or clothes by contractors or gaolers. When they are sick, let them be treated with tendernef*. Such conduit would prevent mutiny in prisons, and attempts to escape $ which I am fully persuaded arc often owing to prisoners being made desperate, by the inhumanity and ill usage of their keepers.

for

4°

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

for his own good.—The keeper Humid, by all means, reside in the house. He should not be suffered to farm any part of the allowance: nor to fell liquor, or any thing else.

1 have often observed, that bridewells are cleaner and quieter where keepers have no licence. He should have no fees,* but a salary proportioned to the trust, that he may not be obliged to follow any business out of the house.—The whole management should be frequently examined, in the same manner as that of a gaol, and by the fame fort of inspectors.—In the house there should be a room for the magistrates, as there is in foreign houses of correction, similar to the governors room in hospitals, and in the houses of industry in Suffolk and Norfolk. The courts of justice fat in the prisons in- Scotland formerly; and this is still the case in some of the towns. This would be attended with many advantages. Mr. Henry Fielding remarks, that

The sufferings of the poor are indeed less observed than their mifdceds j not from “ any want of companion, but because they are less known; and this is the true “ reason why we so often hear them mentioned with abhorrence, and so seldom “ with pity.”

I have before said, that I am no advocate for luxury in prisons; for I would have n-> meat diet for criminals in houses of correction, or at most, only on Sundays. Yet I would plead, that they should have a pound and half of good household bread a uav, and a quart of good beer: besides twice a day a quart of warm soup made from pease, rice, milk or barley. For -a change they might sometimes have turnips, carrots, or potatoes. It may be said, this diet will starve those who work in houses cf correction: but I am persuaded of the contrary; by what I have seen abroad, in the galleys, in the houses of correction, and among the most robud labourers. Though I am sensible that persons confined, whose minds arc depressed, need more nourishmen: than such as are at liberty.

I know' not any reason why an house of correction may not be conducted with as much regularity, as any other house where the family is equally numerous. Some foreign bridewells are so conducted.— Let the sober and diligent be distinguished by some preference in their diet, or lodging; or by fliorrening the term of their confinement: and giving them, when discharged, a good character. This last will be a strong incitement to good behaviour. —The hours of rising, of reading a chapter in the Bible, of prayers, of meals, of work, &c. should all be fixed by the magistrates, and notice of them given by a bell. A Chaplain is necessary here in every view.—To reform prisoners, or to make them better as to their morals, should always be the leading view in every house of correction, and their earnings should only be a Jccmdary object. As rational and immortal beings we owe this to them; nor

Many young creatures, when their term is expired, ere detained in prison, others ilript of a remaining handkerchief, apton, or petticoat. Such necessaries have I seen left with the keepers till thty could bring their fees.

can

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

4*

tan any criminality of theirs justify our neglect in this particular. The last recited author fays, “ Religion will, I am satisfied, have a strong influence in correcting “ the morals of men; and I am no less perfyaded, that it is religion alone which “ can effectually accomplish- so great and so desirable a work. ”

Some have supposed that the profit of the work in a house of correction might support the expence of the houie. But however it may appear in speculation, in practice it is always found otherwise. The difference is great between involuntary labour and that which is performed from choice. In the best regulated houses of correction in Holland, taxes are fixed for their support. But though a bridewell cannot support itself, yet under proper regulation, it would contribute in feme measure towards its own maintenance. An exaCt account should be kept of the profit of the work; and all of it applied to common benefit; not left to the disposal of keepers: for some of them, in the few bridewells where work.is done, keep to themselves a sixth part, (bme half, and some the whole of the prisoners earnings; giving them only the short county-allowance, and sometimes but part of that. When I said all the earnings should go to common stock, I meant it of the dated hours for working. Those who will employ themselves in extra-hours, should have the profit to themselves. And it would be an encouragement to diligence in the Rated hours, to give them some porcion of the profit of these all'o; or employ them in beating hemp, and spinning, and weaving linen for their own use: for clean linen they should have every week. With regular ceconomy, prisoners would be better nourished, and fitter for labour, than they now are; and yet the county not burthened with much, if any, additional expence. But a building fit for the intention they ought to provide.

The charge of this, as well as of a proper gaol, will, no doubt, be complained of But if that be weighed against the benefit which will accrue to the public, it will be found but light. Besides, that ought not to be allowed as a valid objection, the occasion of which should have been removed long ago. Why have some prisons been differed to become ruinous, so that many rooms in them are unsafe, and prisoners arc crowded together in the few that remain; or, for the smallest offences are loaded with irons to prevent their escape ? Why were not the walls of the courts repaired in time, that prisoners might with safety be allowed the proper ufc

Mr. Thomat Firmin, a citizen of London in the last century, employed about ttvo thousand poor, by which he loft jfaoo a year, though good quantities of commodities were taken off by the kindness of several persons, at the price they colt him to spin and weave. In particular, the East India and Guinea companies gave him encouragement to make their allabas cloths, and coarse canvass for pepper bags, which before they bought from foreign countries. * For seven or eight years together “ he loft two pence in a shilling by all the work of his poor: but he was content; for he would say, “ two pence given them by loss in their work, was twice so much saved to the public, in that it took “ them off from beggary, or theft. ” Firmin’s lift, (ago 33 & 34.

G

of

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

+-

of them ? Money, to the amount of thousands, is not with-held when Shire-halls and Town-halls are wanted: (these we fee grand and elegant edifices.) Why should it be spared when rhe morals and lives of multitudes are at (take; and when it is impossible the design of the legislature should be answered without it ? I mean, amending the manners of petty offenders; preventing the spread of diseases, and the increase of felonies. That the two latter, instead of being prevented, are promoted by the present irregularity of bridewells, is notorious.* Prcscription founded on culpable negligence should not be admitted in bar of a demand, which every principle of equity, humanity, and utility conspires to enforce.

I could wilh, that no persons might suffer capitally but for murder—for setting houses on fire—for house-breaking, attended with acts of cruelty. The highwayman—the footpad—the habitual thief, and people of this clan; should end their days in a penitentiary house, rather than on the gallows. “ That many cart-loads of our fellowcreatures are once in six weeks carried to slaughter, is a dreadful consideration; and '* this is greatly heightened by refleding, that, with proper care and proper regula-, “ tions, much the greater part of rhefe wretches might have been made not only

“ happy in themselves, but very useful members of society, which they now so “ greatly dishonour in the fight of all Christendom.”-(-

The management of bridewells is now a matter of more than ordinary concern, since offenders are at present committed to them for terms so long as two or three jean. Most of these persons would probably have been sentenced to traafportation, when that mode of punishment was mote general.

Tiaxs- j bad taken feme pains to make inquiries concerning the state of ’franfports, with ro*TS' regard to whom many cruelties and impositions were commonly practised, and whose condition was in many respeds equally contrary to humanity and good policy: I flattered myself that I had discovered means of remedying these evils in a considerable degree, and of disburthening the counties of a heavy expence with which they were charged; and was preparing to lay them before the public, when a new turn

was given to the matter by the late act of parliament.^

The benevolent Marquis Btcceria closes his 31ft chapter with this maxim. “ The potiishment “ of a crime cannot be just, (that is necessary) if the laws have not endeavoured to prevent that

Ctime by the bfS means which times and circamffances woold allow.'*

f H. fielding't Enquiry, sage ult.

g 16th of George III. Cap. XLIII. An act to aothorife, for a limited time, the punishment by bard labour of Offenders who, for certain crimes, are or shall become liable to be transported to any of his Majesty's colonies and plantations.* Mr. Eden has observed that “ The numbers of “ perfims for whom ibme mode of retraint and punishment in lieu of transportation muff be provided, * may be climated at one thousand annually.* See the Preface to his Draught of a Bill, 1778. If the impolitic mode of transfertatien be again adopted, the cruelty should not be aggravated by confining coarifts a long time before they are feat off.

Since

Sect. III.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

43

Since this has taken place, I suppress what I had written j* and will only give, at the end of my book, a list of the numbers delivered from Newgate for transportation in the course of three years. This will Ihew, in a very alarming light, the danger there may be in future of crowding our prisons, so as to produce the most destructive consequences.

I cannot conclude this section, without attempting to obviate some objections that may occur to the improvements proposed in it. It may be said, that from the many conveniences suggested in the structure of prisons, and the removal of those hardships which rendered them so terrible, the dread of being confined in them will in great measure be taken off, and the lower classes of people will find them more comfortable places of residence than their own houses. But let it be considered in the first place, that although I have indeed recommended such attention in the construdion and management as may free them from the diseafes and bardships under which they have laboured, I have proposed nothing to give them an air of elegance or fleafantne/s. On the contrary, I have censured the plan of some modern gaols as too shewy and splendid; and nothing abroad struck me more with regard to these buildings, than the perfect plainness and fmplictty of their appearance. Then, with respefl to the more humane treatment of the prisoners in the articles of food, lodging, and the like, I venture to assert, that if to it be joined such drift regulations in preventing all dissipation and riotous amusement, as I have inculcated, confinement in a prii'on, though it may ccafe to be destructive to health and morals, will not fail to be sufficiently irksome and disagreeable, especially to the idle and profligate.

The Penitentiary houses directed by a late act of parliament, may, under proper management, be made to answer very useful purposes. ' Much, however, will depend upon their proper regulation. I do not pretend to be qualified for drawing up a perfect system of this difficult business j but in order to assist persons of superior abilities in their rcsearches on this subject, I have added, at the end of the volume, a table of such general heads and particulars as seem to me most deserving of attention.

On the whole, I perfectly concnr in opinion with a learned writer, who has aflerced that every ‘ ‘ effect of banishment, as praflifed in England, is often beneficial to the criminal, and always injurious ‘ ‘ to the community.*' Principle! of PenalXtrcv, p. 33.

Ga

SECTION

44

FOREIGN PRISONS.

SECTION IV.

AN ACCOUNT OF FOREIGN PRISONS AND HOSPITALS.

1 DESIGNED to pufalish the account of our prisons in the spring 1775, after I

returned from Scotland and Ireland. But conjecturing that iomething useful to my purpose might be collected abroad; 1 laid aside my papers, and travelled into France, Flanders, Holland, and Germany. I flattered mylelf that my labour was not quite fruitless; and repeated my viiit to these countries, and went also to Switzerland, in 1776.

In the concluGon of ray first edition, I made a promile, if the legislature should seriously engage in the reformation of our prisons, to take a third journey, through the Pruifian and A.uftrian dominions, and the free cities of Germany. This I ac-compliflied in 1778, and likewise extended my tour through Italy, and revisited some of the countries I had before seen in pursuit of my object. These observations were published in a second edition in 1780. But before the publication of another edition, I wished to acquire some further knowledge on the subject. For this purpose in 17S1 I again revisited Holland, and some cities in Germany. I visited also the capitals of Denmark, Sweden, Russia and Poland; and in 1783 some cities in Portugal and Spain, and returned through France, Flanders and Holland. The substance of all theft travels is now thrown into one narrative.—I have only to add, that, fully sensible of the imperfection that must attend the cursory furvev of a traveller, it was my study to remedy that defect by confining my attention to the one object of my pursuit, during the whole of my joumies abroad.

HOLLAND.

Prisons in the United Provinces are so quiet, and most of them so clean, that a visitor can hardly believe he is in a gaol. They are commonly (except the ralp-houses) white-washed once or twice a year: and prisoners obforved to me how re-freflung it was to come into the rooms after they had been so thoroughly cleaned.

A physician

Sect. IV.

HOLLAND.

4 5

A physician and surgeon is appointed to every prison; and prisonere are in general healthy.

In most of the prisons for criminals there are so many rooms that each prisoner is kept separate. They never go out of their rooms: each has a bedstead, straw mat, and coverlet. But there are few criminals, except those in the ra/p-houses and /pin-bott/es. Of late, in'all the seven provinces, seldom more executions in a year than from four to fix. One reason of this, I believe, is the awful solemnity of executions, which are performed in presence of the magistrates, with great order and seriousness, and great effect on the spedtators. I did not fee the process in Holland; but it was particularly described to me, and was similar to what I had been witness of in another place abroad.

The common method of execution for unpremeditated murder, is decollation by a broad sword. Robberies are generally punished by the halter. For the more atrocious crimes, such as premeditated murder &c. the malefacftor is broken on the wheel i or rather on a cross laid flat upon the scaffold. But a description of the manner of this execution, which is finished by a coup de grace on the breast, would not be agreeable to any of my readers.

Debtors also are but few. The magistrates do not approve of confining in idleness any that may be usefully employed. And when one is imprisoned, the creditor mull: pay the gaoler for his maintenance, from five and a half to eighteen stivers a day, according to the debtor’s former condition in life. The aliment mult be paid every week': in default whereof, the gaoler gives eight days notice j and if within that time, the money, or security for it, be not brought, the debtor is dil'charged.

Another reason is, that the situation is very disgraceful. But, perhaps, the principal cause that debtors, as well as capital offenders, are few, is the great care that is taken to train up the children of the poor, and indeed of all others, to industry. No debtors have their wives and children living with them in prison: but occasional visits in the day-time are not forbidden. You do not hear in the streets as you pass by a prison, what I have been rallied for abroad, the cry of poor hungry Jtarving debtors.

The States do not transport conviAs: but men are put to labour in the ra/p-bou/es, and women to proper work in the spin-btmfes: upon this profelfed maxim, Make them diligent^ and they will be honest. The rasping logwood, which was formerly the principal work done by the male conviAs, is now in many places performed at the mills, much cheaper: and the Dutch, finding woollen manufactures more profitable, have lately set up several of them in those houses of correction. In some, the work of the robust prisoners does not only support themi but they have a little extra-time to earn somewhat for their better living in prison, or for their benefit afterwards.

Great care is taken to give them moral and religious instruction, and reform their manners, for their own and the public good. The chaplain (such there is in every

house

FOREIGN PRISONS.

R o 7 t r o. 'J

house of correction) does not only perform public worship, but' privately instrufts the prisoners, catechises them every week, &c. and I am well informed, that many come out sober and honell.* Some have even ehofen to continue and work in the house after their discharge.

Offenders are fcntenced to theft houses, according to their crimes, for ftven, ten, fifteen, twenty, and even to ninety-nine years: but, to prevent despair, seldom for life. As an encouragement to sobriety and industry, those who distinguish themselves by such behaviour, are discharged before the expiration of their term. And the prisoner who gives information of an intended escape is greatly favoured in this respect: his term is shortened, and sometimes he gains his liberty. A little before the election of new magistrares, those who are in office inspecl theft prisons; and inquire of the keeper which prisoners, of those who have been confined a few years, have been diligent and orderly; and of the minister, which of them have been moll attentive to public and private instructions. According to the accounts, they abridge the appointed time of punishment: lo that fourteen years will foiiltcilTtes be reduced to eight or ten; and twelve years to six or seven. This practice is in

every view wife and beneficial. Indeed, I have some reason to think that criminals are often doomed to a longer term, with an intention to make such deductions upon their amendment.

I was informed that the produce of the work does not maintain these houses: though the men that are robuik earn from eight to ten stivers a day; and healthy women by spinning ccc. from four to fix. But some earn less; and thofr that are infirm, very little: none however are quite idle, unless sick. This is surely excellent policy; for besides guarding against the pernicious eft eels of idleness in a prison, and breaking criminals to habits of industry, if work so constant dees not support the houses, how much heavier would be the public burthen, maintaining the numerous offenders in theft prisons, if, as in many of our bridewells, no work at ail were done there

In Holland, as well as in Germany, there are private rooms in moil of the houses of correction, in which young persons of a vicious and profligate turn are confined on the representation of their parents, till they shew signs of amendment.

At Rotterdam, in the Stadt-house prison, there were no debtors in either of the three rooms a: any of my former visits, but in 1781 there was one debtor. When

I hare heard in England that a countryman of ours, who was a prisoner In the rasp-house at Atnilerdam several years, was permitted to work at his ov.n trade, ihcc-making; and by being con-Samly kept employed, was quite cored of the vices that were the cause of his confinement. My informant added, that the prisoner reccired at his release a furplas of his earning?, which enabled him o set up his trade in London; where he Uved in credit; and at dinner commonly drank Health to hi# worthy mailers at the rasp-hoofe.n

there

Sect-. IV.

HOLLAND.

there are any, they are alimented at one fixed sum, viz. sixteen stivers a day.* There Rotte«.-are seven vaulted rooms for criminals or disorderly persons about seventeen feet by DAU' ten. One of them is called the condemned room, into which a criminal is put fourteen days before his final sentence; and immediately after the sentence, he is executed with a solemnity very striking to the common people. In three of the rooms, were three persons confined for a limited time for some small offences, and kept to bread and water. Their daily allowance was from four to five stivers, and their pitcher was filled with water three times a day;' but the other criminals had their pitcher filled once a day wth beer, and their allowance was from nine to ten stivers. There were cases with thick straw mats, and t,wo or three coverlets to each.

At my last visit there were four criminals.

In the Rajp-house, (or Spin-house as it should be called) at one of my former visits lUsr-there were thirty-eight men, and in 1781, twenty-eight men and forty women. house. Two men were rasping logwood, others, combing, spinning, and carding wool, and (a few) making fishing nets, and sorting coffee-berries. The women were (pinning wool and flax, and carding hair, or winding at a great wheel like those which at Derby are turned by water. They were clean, and appeared healthy and well. I observed the cieling was very white; and one of the regents informed me, that the room was white-washed regularly twice a year.

The men were more separated than the women into rooms (about seventeen feet long, eleven feet broad, and ten High), each of which contained only four or five prisoners. These rooms were very offenfivej the persons confined in them being taken out only once in the week. For preventing combinations, two of the men are removed every ten or fourteen days, to different companies. There were among them some Jews, whose dinner was not pork as was that of the other prisoners, but mutton, which the society of Jews in the city sent them with a slice of white bread, by permission of one of the five regents or inspectors.f

For the refractory there are dark rooms, but not dungeons: in one of these, on (hutting the door on myself, I found no dampness. My conductor observed, that the floor was raised to preserve it dry. Here they are allowed no bedding, and are kept to bread and water, which is given them at an aperture in the door. Their confinement is for fix, eight, ten, or fourteen days.

A guinea 2526. is = 11 guilders 11 divers = 231 stivers (for 20 stivers is a guilder) therefore

tliveis are to pence as 1^1 = I-!: i. c. 11 stivers is equal to a shilling.

f As I was there at one o’clock, the time of the distribution, 1 observed that the bread was all cut in dices: this prevents those contorts or frauds which sometimes happen where prisoners mess together, and the bread is given out in one loaf; as I saw on board the hulks in the Thames, where one loaf was given to fix persons.

At

48

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Rotter*

D A U

R A a P-

H 0 f i E

At the whipping-post (which is in the middle of the court, in full view of the male criminals) some of our dextrous countrymen in 1781, were dilciplined, for melting their pewter spoons and forming them into keys. The pewter was hardened with a mixture procured from an apothecary, under the pretence of its being a remedy for the rooth-ach. But the scheme was defeated by an English Jew, who for this service obtained his liberty, though he had been committed for thirty years.

The regents have a room in which they assemble once a fortnight. Their ladies assemble in another room to give directions concerning the work, linen, provisions, fitc. They also attend by rotation at dinner, and other times; and their accounts are carried to the regents.*

The keeper has a falay from the city, of four hundred florins or guilders per annum, f and also a house, victuals and drink, firing and candle, and one seventh part of the produce of all the labour of the prisoners; lb that it is his interest to fee that the work be well performed: yet as the quantum is fixed by the regents, it is not in his power to be a cruel task-master. The manner of dieting the prisoners seemed to me worthy of being inferred at length.

Being

A principal reason of the cleanliness and order in work-houses in Holland, is the attention and humanity of the Governesses: for each house has four who take the charge of inspection, and have thdr names painted in their room.

+ About £56.

X Regulation for the daily Diet, at the Rasp-house at Rotterdam.

SanJaj Dinner. Each man has a mess of boiled grout, with butter or kitchen-fluff; a piece of cheese or batter, rvith a quarter of a pound of rye bread.

Each boy, woman, or such as only work half-talk, a mess of grout, as above; a piece of cheese cr butter, with one hxth of a pound of rye bread.

----- Supper. Each maa a bowl of new milk boiled with barley or Sour, with apiece of cheese,

and one fourth of a pound of rye bread.

£ach boy, woman, or such as only do half-talk, the bowl of sweet milk as above, but no bread or cheese.

Uutday Breakfast. Each man half a pound of rye bread with cheese or butter.

Each boy, woman, or half-talked, one fourth of a pound of rye bread with batter or cheese.

A. S. Breahfn?: rsugb the ’iveei, is the fame 'as above.

.....- Dinner. Each man ljplf a pound or*meat, or one n\th of a pound cf pork tvithout bone; half

a pound of rye bread, with a bow! of boiled carrots, cabbage or greens.

Each boy, woman, or haT-tafited, one third of a pound of meat, or one eighth of a pound of pork without bone, three eighths cf a pound of rye bread, with a bowl of boiled carrots, c: bVcge or greens.

Taefiftj Dinner. For all, boiled gray pc.ife, with one fourth of a pound of rye bread; the men have, besides, each a piece of cheese.

U'eJsr/Jsn ---— Each man a bow! of pe*fe porridge, with three eighths of a pound of rye bread and a piece of cheese.

fVtdnesday

Sect* IV.

HOLLAND.

49

Being at Rotterdam on a Sunday, I was desirous of seeing, whether there was Rotte* ftieh dissipation in their prisons, as there is in ours, on that day. The public service at the Rasp-house began at half after one o'clock. The audience consisted of house. about thirty or forty inhabitants of the town, Mr. Schumacher the presiding regent, the head-keeper and his family, and three under-keepers, beftdes the prisoners. The number of wcmen prisoners was about forty, who were separated from the rest of the congregation by a wooden palisade, and seated on benches raised one above another.

They were all clean and neat; had nothing distinguishing in their dress, but were without hats. While they stood up during prayer, they held up their aprons to cover their faces. The men were, neat, dressed in brown coats, had been lhaved, had clean shirts (which were most of them chequed), clean stockings, and wore handkerchiefs about their necks. They also were seated on raised benches, in a room out of the chape], and separated from it by an iron grate from the top of the room to the bottom, so wide that all the audience, except the female prisoners, had them full

M'tdntfday Dinner. Thitrfday —-----

FriJ&y Dinner.

Saturday

Each boy, woman, or half-taflced, a bowl of pease porridge, one fourth of a pound of rye bread- with a piece of cheese.

Each man, one third of a pound of meat, or one eighth of a pound of pork without bone; two dices of rye bread, weighing together half a pound, with a bowl of barley broth.

Hoys, or men who only do half-talk, one fourth of a pound of meat, or one twelfth of a pound of pork without bone; two dices of rye bread, weighing together three eighths of a pound, with each a bowl of barley broth.

The women, no meat or pork; each a bowl of barley broth, with three eighths of a pound of rye bread with butter or cheese.

Each man a bowl of kidney-bean porridge; three eighths of a pound of rye bread with cheese.

Each boy, woman, or half-talked, the mess of kidney-bean porridge $ one fourth of a pound of rye bread with cheese.

Each man a bowl of boiled pease, with butter and vinegar faucc; boys, women and half-talked, have the fame allowance; and all have the lame allowance of rye

bread and cheese as on the Fridays.

The conitant fupftr, on week-days, for all, is buttermilk boiled with bailey or grout till thick enough to be eaten without bread; to this, each man has one fourth of a pound of rye bread with cheese; the boys, women and half-talked, have only a mess of the buttermilk, but no bread or cheese.

Cans.

Each man ha$, during the three summer months, daily, of beer, - 2^

and during the three winter months, —-----— - if

and during the remaining six months,----- - 2

Boys, women and half-talked, for the three summer months, each, daily, if

and for the remaining nine months, 1

In the foregoing regulation for diet, no alteration is to be made, unless when fish {hall be extraordinarily cheap and plentiful, all the prisoners may be indulged with one meal, provided with the consent of a majority of the regents.

H

in

5»

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Rorrea-

BAM.

PtST-

BOVSt.

in view. The keeper’s feat adjoins to this grate, and two of his servants, who are turnkeys, fat observing their behaviour.

The chaplain, after a short prayer, preached extempore; then, the men convitts joined in singing, most of them having books. When the chaplain had prayed again, he catechised for about three quarters of an hour. It being the women's turn that Sunday, fix of them flood up, one after another, and made the responses, which the chaplain explained to them. After this he prayed, and the service concluded by singing the fifty-first Psalm. The decent behaviour and attention of the audience, evidently proved that the service, though of two hours and a half, was not tedious or disagreeable.

During the time of catechising, the head-keeper and one of his servants went our, to inspeS the empty wards, and to search whether any tools or instruments were concealed. The keeper returned to his feat in an hour. At the end of the service, the women passed by the regents feat; and when they were gone, he went into the court to fee the men go to their several wards, four or five together, that number only being let out at a time.f After they were all locked up, he went to each window, and converted with them. Many of them returned their thanks for the abridgment of their term of confinement, as this was just before the time for electing new magistrates. One or two, who had been at sea, entreated to go in any capacity to India, as is fometinies permitted. He afterwards went to the lattice of the women’s ward, and converted with them; and gave the catechumens some token of his approbation.

I cannot forbear - closing this account, without mentioning the ardent wilhes it inspired in me, that r prisons also, instead of echoing with profaneness and blasphemy, might hereafter refound with the offices of religious worship; and prove, like these, the happy means of awakening many to a sense of their duty to God and mau-X

The Pefi-bo.use across the Maes opposite Rotterdam is a spacious building in a small ifie. It is a fquaie of one hundred and fifty-four feet: has four large wards, two of which are eighty-seven by thirty, and twenty-one high. I mention this edifice, not only as it occurred to me that it would be a good plan for a house of conedion, being airy, and built round a court in which is a bason of water communicating with the Maes; but on account of the sentiments of veneration it

The feat is large enough ibr all the five regents or inspectors: hot only see is obliged to attend, and this they do by rotation.

t They were not chained, for no irons ate here used.

1 On converting with a lcnhple magistrate, his words were, “ I hare known persons who hare “ come ont of oar hoafes of conedion thoroughly reformed, and hare thanked God for their “confinement.”

inspired.

Sect. IV.

HOLLAND.

S»

inspired, when I trod on the ground under which such piles of my brave countrymen lie buried; it' having been used as a military hospital after the liege of Bergen-of-Zoom.

In 1781 I visited the few English prisoners of war in Holland, who were confined in the Admiralty at Rotterdam. A room was assigned for the officers, in which there were only two. In another room (twenty-one feet by eighteen and fifteen feet high) there were eleven sailors, who appeared healthy and well. Several had died a little time before, which, I apprehend, was in part owing to their being confined in a small room called the hospitaL, which was dirty, without a chimney, and its Tides were wood. Their allowance was eight stivers a day, a bed and coverlet, and on mod days they walked Tome hours in the court.

At Dordrecht (or Dort) the prison is in the Stadt-house. It consists of rooms up Hairs which are distinguished on the outside by strong iron-bars in the windows. In this prison there are seldom any prisoners, though the jurisdiction (or bailiwick) extends through thirty villages. There was one criminal here in November 1781. And I have been well informed, that for thirty or forty years there has been but one debtor here, and that he continued in confinement only fourteen days.

The rooms in the prison at Middleburg are spacious, lofty and clean. The three dungeons are used to force a confession; as there is no direct torture, and the criminal is not executed till the crime is confessed. The allowance to a criminal is eight stivers a day.

In the House of correction the prisoners were employed in weaving cloth or sacking for the East India company. This is more profitable than their late employment on coarle carpeting. None were in irons. No more than four persons were in any of the men’s rooms; in some there were but two. Each criminal pays three guilders at his entrance, and the fame at his discharge.

The prison at Breda is an old tower. In 1781 there were no prisoners in it except one boy, though thirteen villages, and ibme of them large, are under the jurisdiction of this city. The allowance to criminals is five stivers a day.—I was informed, that the torture-stool, in the chamber of examination, has not been used for many years.

In the new house of correction (in 1778) there were eleven men and two women prisoners; and in November 1781, fifteen men and four women. They were employed on a coarle carpeting like the Scotch carpeting, but much cheaper. The specimen I purchased cost only eleven stivers (or a {hilling) their ell, which is two feet four inches. The prisoners are always confined to their rooms, which are latticed with wood from top to bottom, and open into the passages. In this and Other iimilar houses the passages are very offensive, for the keepers will never open the windows. It would therefore be much better if the upper part of the windows were wire latticed.

Ha

Rotter-

dam.

Dort.

Middle-

burg.

Spik-

HOUSE.

Breda.

Sr ik-

HOUSE.

I here

5-

FOREIGN PRISONS.

BeEDA

Spin-

house.

Gocda.

Dectt.

I here give die plan of the house taken by the builder, who has been particularly attentive to the construction of the drains and sewers, which are of the greatest importance to the health of prisoners.

The old house of correction was burnt down about ten years since, anctseven women perished in the flames. In die conitniAiAn of the new prison, proper precautions were taken against such an accident, by laying the beams, or large joists edgeways, casing the two underfides of them with iron plates, and arching the space with brick-work.

At La Parte, the prison at Gouda, there is a small room for debtors, which the keeper informed me had not been occupied since 1761. There are many(bSagou) rooms, but all empty: lame ate assigned to those who are committed for small offences, and kept to bread and water, for which there is an allowance to each of them of three lasers a day.—In the Spm-house the prisoners were all employed in carding and fpihning wool for ltockings. On observing little towels' hanging in a room, they told me, that each of them had one clean every week. Here were some -prisoners from the Hague, and other towns which have no rasp-houses, who were admitted at a stipulated annual sum, of about a hundred and ten florins for each, besides fifteen for clothing.—Near this city is endofed a triangular gallows, with an inscription over the gate,

ReSe fadendo nemnem timeas.

The best translation of which may be the words of Scripture,

The rigbttous is bold as a lion.

At Delft over the gate of the house of correction ('.fuebt em Dol-buis) there is a repreientation of two men rasping logwood, and the.city arms, dated 1682. At my fiift visit here, were near ninety of both fezes, and in 1781, forty-seven men and thirty-six niemen. The men and women were quite separate: all neat and clean, and looked healthy. They told me their allowance was five stivers a day. All were employed on a woollen manufacture—women {pinning, carding, &c.—men weaving from coarse to very fine cloth: their talk, to earn thirty-five stivers a week. Some earn a ftnail surplus, but they have only half of it. A burgomaster, to whom I mentioned that circumstance, said it was the truth. They do not put more than eight or ten men to work in one room: for when large numbers are together, one idle person corrupts more; and there is not generally so much work done. Here also, if a prisoner has behaved well for a few years, and given proofs of amendment, the magi fixates begin to abridge the time for which he was sentenced. One whom I law very cheerful, told me the cause of his joy was, that a year had lately been taken from his term.

Near the men's court there are several rooms for x\sc-infant, but the particular description of the excellent hospital at Amsterdam will excuse my omission of others.

At

North Front. South Front. "Weft Front.

/ Pafiragts.

HI. Four/l WorA- Jlooms. i3. Great Wfaret Aoernr.

ZtxVfreng' /looms. ti7 /Ceejoers /Voom.

'/'. JCitabea. tf. Great CaurV.

&vert,

VO. JiaAeZou/e. V/.J’rtwirton Gbetm/er

V2.J>ntUtor.

H» Btunlaad fcol u^lurtilopgf tb^itbtEngtiftfoo*.

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. S3

At the Hacte I was honoured with the very polite assistance of Sir ftfepb Yorke. It A out.

A magistrate accompanied me to the prison 5 where all was quiet and in order. The fame gentleman presented me with a copy of instruStons to the sheriff of the court; a copy of rules for officers of the attorney-general 5 and with a M.S. copy on several Iheets, of forty-four rules for the management of the prison.—The gaoler is never suffered to deep out of the house, but with the express consent of the court, or the advocate &c. and when that leave is, on any special occasion, granted, he must provide a substitute approved by the court &c. This substitute is sworn to his temporary office. If any prisoner escapes, whether by the immediate Fault of the keeper, or the fault of his servants, he is to suffer the punishment that was due to the prisoner. He may not keep a tavern or alehouse: nor play at cards &c. with his prisoners: nor accept of any treat or gift from them, directly or indirectly, during their confinement or afterwards. He must keep the prison neat and clean: furnish freffi straw once a week; and in winter, coverlets. The attorney-general, or his deputy, is to foe that all this be duly performed. The keeper is to fopply prisoners with good bread, soup, and beer. Those who pay eighteen stivers a day (or what other sum the magistrates shall allow them to expend) are to have provision proportioned to that price. Vilitants are not permitted to be in the prison from eleven in the morning till two -. and are dismissed in the evening at fix in summer, and four in winter. None to be admitted on Saturday: nor in time of divine service on Sunday. Candles to be taken away at nine. The keeper to guard against accidents by fire.

The rules for officers of the high-bailiff, and of the sheriff, have an admirable effect in preferring peace, and order. There are thirty-two of them. I cannot forbear abstracting a few. No officer to stir out of town without special leave: and while in town each must always give notice where he may be found. In case of fire, they must immediately repair to the court-gate for instructions. Arrests of delinquents must be performed quietly. No officer to serve or watch instead of another. Neglect of duty through drunkenness is puriiffied with living in prison on bread and water at their own expence for three days—eight days—and at last, with discharge. They may not keep company with any persons in public houses &c. Giving ill language is punished by a fine: quarrels, at discretion of the magistrates. Not giving information of defaulters is punished with discharge. They are to guard against being guilty of ill behaviour of any fort, that no clilhonour may be cast upon the court of judicature. Each officer to have a copy of the rules, and keep it to Ihew on demand, on pain of a fine. The whole to be read to them all together by the sheriff once a month.

In the house of correBion at Leyden there were fourteen then and twenty women Leyden. all employed in spinning wool. The talk for each was thirty-two stivers a week.

The

54

FOREIGN PRISONS.

liruii

Pest-

House.

Harlem

Sfik*

HOUSE.

Hospital.

The Pe/t-bcufe near Leyden is funilar to that at Rotterdam, but more spacious. The crew of the Barker East Indiaman which was wrecked on this coast, were here confined. One of the large rooms is now fitted up with beds, See. for the reception of wounded seamen. But very injudiciously, it has been contracted by two partitions through its whole length.

At Harlem, the Spn-homfe (which is the work-house or poor-house) being old, is not lo airy and commodious'as modern buildings. Here were about thirty male and fifteen female offenders. The women were at work with the mother (as they call her) making and mending the linen of the houie. The men were weaving coarse linen, in which, at the difiance of every fix inches, there was a blue stripe, to distinguish the linen of the house, and to prevent its being in any manner disposed of elsewhere. One petion was working at a loom on flowered silk damalk, because that had been his former trade. Tailors were alib employed in the way of their profession. The room in which the women worked, and that in which they slept, were quire dean. Each bed had two persons allotted to it, and they were all allowed sheets. The poor here, as in other work-houses in Holland, were cleanly and decently clad.

In this city (as in some others) is a noble Hospital, airy and Ipacious, called the Prceveniers, in which the persons admitted are decently provided with meat, drink and lodging during their lives, and a burying-place at their decease. Persons of all ages from twenty to the moil advanced period are admitted, though it is not common for any under forty to apply for admission. At entrance, each person pays a greater or finaller sum, according to his age, as by the table in the note. A common table is provided for all who are not sick or infirm. If any, after redding some time, choose to have their victuals brought to their rooms, rather than eat in common, they mult pay for that privilege according to their age, one fifth part of the sum that would be required for admission at that age. For example—if a person of seventy years of age

Age. Sum. Age. Sam. Age. Sam.

Florins. Florins. Florins.

20 — 5000 40 — 39°° 60 — Z7OO

22 — 49°° 4- — 3800 62 — 2600

*4 — 4800 44 — 3700 64 — 25OO

16 — 4700 46 — 3?>o 66 — 235°

zS — 4600 4* — 34>* 68 — 2200

30 — 4joo S° — 3300 70 — 2100

3* — 4400 52 — 3130 7* — I95O

34 — 4300 54 — 3000 74 — 1800

36 — 4150 >6 — ' 2900 , 76 — 1700

3» — 4OJO >8 — 27JO 78 — 1600

So — IJOO

chooses

Sect.IV,

HOLLAND.

55

chooses to eat in his apartments, he mult pay one fifth of the admission money required at the age of seventy, namely, four hundred and twenty florins.

It often happens that there are not vacant places, when persons desire admission. But many secure places before a vacancy, by paying two hundred florins in advance of their entrance money; in consequence of which, their names are inscribed in a list; and the money deducted from the sum required when they enter.

Those who choose to leave the house entirely, receive, during the remainder of their lives, a certain, though very small, interest of the turn which they paid at admission.

At Amsterdam the prison is in the Stadt-house. Debtors and felons quite separate. No court. Visitants may converse with debtors at the lattices of their rooms, from nine to twelve in the forenoon. The debtor may buy an anchor of wine to deposite with the keeper (who fells liquors): he is allowed to call for a bottle of it a day, paying the keeper two stivers a bottle.—The city allows each debtor one quart of beer daily, and turf for firing.

By conversing with the debtors, I found that they were all alimented alike, the first fourteen days at eleven stivers or a shilling a day; after that time at five stivers and a half. But this is paid to the gaoler, who has great profit out of it, as appeared from the daily allowance, which I weighed several times.—Their two rooms are thoroughly cleaned and white-washed twice a year.

In this city they compute 250,000 ibuls,f about one third of those in London:

For this account I am indebted to Dr. Maclaine, the worthy minister of the English church ac the Hague.

t In the Stadt-house there is hung up to public view, a board ihewing the mortality in this city.

Deaths in 1774, - 6649. Deaths in 1779, 9%

1775* 7895. 1780, 10536.

*776> - 8982, 1781, IO889.

*777. *939- 1782, 8+45-

NI 00 - 779*-

When I was there in June 1778,

The First week, died 121. In November 1781, The First week, died 272.

Second week, - 138. Second week, . 284.

In June 1781, The First week, - 176. In June 1783, The First week, - 168.

Second week, - <59. Second week, - 193.

Sir William Petty in his Yra&s, f. 186, gives ."or the year 1683 the number of burials in Amsterdam 6245. Perhaps the above computation of the number of inhabitants in Amsterdam is too great; though, if I mistake not, Mr. Karjfeitm ellimated them at 243,000. And of late, many Jews banifticd from other countries, have made an addition to the number: but Dr. Price reckons, that they'hardly amount to 209,000. See his Oifirvatiom in Rtverfimary Payments, p, 186, 187. 3d edit.

Haulcm

HosrtTAL.

Auster-

DASS.

vet

FOREIGN PRISONS.

J6

.Amster-

dam.

yet in 1775, -! found but eighteen debtors j—in 1776, only fifteen;—in 1778, eighteen;— in June 1781 sixteen, and in November, seventeen;—and in June 1783, seventeen.

The walls of (his prison are done twenty-two inches thick; moil of the rooms

ten feet by nine and a half j each for one prisoner only; a bedstead See. The doorway twenty-two inches wide; door three inches and a half thick, and plated with iron: the condemned rooms have an iron door besides. There arc on the ground-door two rooms foy debtors, and twelve or thirteen for criminals, which open into passages seven feet wide; and below ground there are eight rooms more for criminals. The windows are double barred, and open into a passage in which there is a (bong door between every two. cells. In the condemned rooms a criminal is never left alone: two prisoners front the rasp-house are always with him to prevent his destroying himself. They rejoice at the service; for if they discharge it faithfully, their reward is an abridgment of their allotted term. The execution is generally performed within forty-eight hours after sentence. From a book containing the names ana crimes of all who have been executed at Amsterdam, from January 1693 to the end of 1766, the following fate of executions at different periods is drawn.

From 1693 to 1733 (43 years) 288. i?36 — 174S (10 jeers) 20.

1746 — 1766 (21 years) 28.

And I have been well informed, that in the eight years preceding my vific in 1783, only five criminals were executed; two of them were beheaded, one broke on the wheel, and two hanged.

The instruments of torture are (till in the magistrates room, I hope only in terrorem, for the laws in general are not sanguinary, and justice is executed, though with a fteadv, yet with a lenient hand.

In 1776, in the Stadt-house there were fix delinquents; in 1778 only five, and their offences not being capital, all the strong rooms under ground were empty. In 1781 there was none, in 1783 only two petty offenders. Their allowance is nine divers a day, for which the keeper gives them—in the morning, four dices of bread and butter—at dinner, rice soup, and two dices of bread—at supper, milk—befides about a quart of beer a day; and on Sunday three quarters of a pound of meat. He also pays for their weekly (having, and for walhing their linen. In some other provinces the allowance is the fame: in some, more. One of the magistrates, with whom

There are two places in this country, Viane and Culcnburg, (not far from Utrecht) whose ancient privileges exempt them from the jnriiaidion of Holland. In thofa places a few debtors fereen

tiemselves from anedi.

I was

Sect. IV.

HOLLAND.

57

I was converting upon the subject of English prisons, said, “ NourUh your prisoners well, and keep them in dry rooms, and they will be healthy."

The children of the malefa&on who are executed, and of those who are committed for a long term, to the ralp, or spin-house, are sent to the orphan-house, and there brought up in industry, and not left destitute vagabonds to become unhappy victims to the wickedness and folly of their parents.

At the Rasp-house over the gate, there is in has relief, a device of a man driving a waggon loaded with logvooei, drawn by lions, wild boars, and tigers, with this inscription,

Virtutis eft domare I$u<e cttuBi sevent.

Over this device, there is a representation of two men in chains, with a woman near them, holding the arms of Amsterdam in her left hand, and a whip in her right, and over her head the word Ceftiget'to. At the inner gate is (as at other rasp-houses) a representation of two men rasping logwood: which is here their principal employment. Yet regard is had, not only to their degree of guilt, but to their strength: for I saw two men winding silk. In summer 1776 there were fifty-four prisoners. In some rooms, where they also deep, there were ten or twelve men rasping an appointed talk. Others were in the warehouses, sorting and weighing; others bringing the wood to those rooms. Hours of work from fix to twelve, and from one to four. In extra-hours they make tobacco-boxes &c. which they fell to visitants, who pay two (livers to go in.

The four regents who manage the Rasp-house are appointed by the burgomasters, to whom they are accountable.-)- The gaoler or father is strictly obliged to obey all the orders of the high-bailiff, the burgomasters, and also of the regents. In no case may he, or any of his family, receive a gift from the prisoners or their friends, either before or after their enlargement. He must not entrust a servant with the keys, but must himself carefully search the convitts and their cots, or rooms, before he locks them up in the evening] at fix o’clock in summer, and at four in winter. The father

In many of the towns in Holland I purchased the different sorts of bread of various bakers, not only to fee if the police was drift in that necessary article, but also to compare the prices with those of other places, and particularly of London.

At Amsterdam, June 5, 1778, the two-stiver loaf of white bread weighed exactly t/$.—the one and half-diver loaf of befi rye bread, 1 lb. 10eas.—the black rye bread, a doit less than a diver per lb. As eleven divers is equal to one shilling, the white bread was above two pence a pound. In 1781 bread was somewhat dearer. By a lid of the assize tf bread put up at the Staduhouse, June 7, 1783; white bread was 11 oz. for two divers, and black rye bread was one diver a pound.

+ It may be proper to mention, that these regents have fmUries, bat only some privileges and honorary didin&ions; as exemption from the city watch; liberty of free entrance after one of the city gates is shut; and a deacon’s feat in the church.

I must

AusTia-

DAM.

Ras»-

HOVtB.

5*

FOREIGN PRISONS.

AnsTit*

DAM

Rasp-

H0C1E.

must never be abfeoc a night, without special permission. He is severely punished if any priibner escapes. He must register in order ail acts concerning commitments and discharges, and produce them to the regents when required. Also he must keep an exact register of the clothes, and all other things which belong to those confined.

The regents assemble in the house at four o’clock every Wednesday afternoon, to collect and examine the transactions of the preceding week. They appoint a servant to give any necessary assistance to the father, to cut the dices of bread for the prifooers; and when the father is ill, in the evening to visit and examine the cots.

In the nine lower rooms of this house, in June 1778, were confined upwards of forty prisoners; in June 1781, fifty-five; in November, sixty-five; June 6, 17 S3, fifty-one. One of these was incapable of working, his limbs having been dislocated by the torture. Each of these rooms, in which they work in the day and are locked tip at night, contains at least four persons. The fame prisoners do not continue long together, but are removed and separated once a fortnight or oftener. Few or none of them were rasping logwood, but moil of them chopping it for the two mills belonging to the house: as it was found to be too laborious for most of the prisoners, to work with fix or eight saws, which often weigh seventy or eighty pounds. The medical gentlemen, who daily visit the prison, informed the magistrates that it had been the cause of frequent ruptures.

No friends of the prisoners are permitted to visit them, without express orders from the regents, unless on Mondays: and then they must be searched, to prevent the introduction of jpmtuaus liquors, or instruments for breaking out, or any thing else forbidden: and they must retire before the time for Ihutting up. Every visitant is obliged to put two fKvers into a box intruded with the father. Refreshments may be received and given to the convicts on Tuesdays; but not on other days. Every evening, at eight o’clock, the father must fee that all things are in due order. The saws, and other heavy implements for their work, are taken from them in the evening, and returned in the morning. If a convict be guilty of breaking any thing considerable, of burning the logwood, or of neglect or disobedience, he is punished severely by whipping, or confined to bread and water in a dungeon under ground. On careful inquiry, I learned, that what has been said concerning a cellar in which such transgreflors are put to pump or drown, is a fiction.

Prayers are read morning and evening, and before and after meals, by one of the best-behaved convicts: and divine service, with a sermon, is performed in the chapel by a clergyman on Sunday mornings.

Once a year, a little before the change of the regency, the highnbailiff and magi fixates, with a secretary, attended by the inferior officers of justice, come to

I had this information from Mr. Jdm Hope, one of their very worthy magistrates; and to him I am much obliged for copies of the rules and instructions to this btuft, the spin-bwfe, and the

cr^-bcm/e.

this

Sect. IV.

HOLLAND.

this prison, in order to ctmtra& or lengthen the terms of confinement of the convicts, according to their good or bad behaviour, as represented by the regents.

The house provides for the prisoners, diet,* clothes, shoes and (lockings, with ihirts of half-bleached Flemish linen. Here is no infirmary: their labour keeps them in health: the physician, with whom 1 went the round at my last vilit, had only two patients, and those with very flight disorders.

Some persons are confined in private rooms, to which none have access, unless in the presence of a regent. Great care is enjoined the father in conveying provisions to those prisoners. With the regents leave, on Sunday mornings, some chapters of the Bible are read to them.-)-

The Spin-house was for women. This, and the work-house, were under the direction of fix regents and four governesses; who appointed two fathers and two mothers to superintend and inspect the work, the diet, and the lodging of the prisoners $ and to chastise the disobedient. ,

The work-room was a large room up (lairs, separated by a wooden baluftxade from the passage (fix feet wide) into which spectators were admitted. This room was divided by baluilrades into two, for distinguishing those who had suffered some public or corporal punishment, from others who had not been whipped, and exposed

The Diet of the convicts in the Rasp.house at Amiterdam.

Sunday Breakfast. Three slices of rye bread with butter, and a piece of dry bread fix dices thick.

(N. B. Three Jlicet weigh half a found.)

Dinner or Noon. Half a pound of beef or pork, with beans, salt and vinegar, and in winter full two pounds of salt meat.

Monday Breakfast. Six dices with butter, and a piece of bread of three dices thick.

Dinner. Gray pease with salt and vinegar.

Tuesday Breakfast. As on Monday.

Dinner. White or gray pease boiled in water with salt and sage.

Wednesday Breakfast. As on Monday.

Dinner. Boiled oats or barley with sweet milk and butter upon it.

Supper. Buttermilk, with oats or barley boiled in it.

Thursday Breakfast. Six dices of rye bread with butter, and a piece of bread as on Sunday morning.

Dinner. Stockfilh, with sweet milk and butter upon it.

Friday. As Tuesday.

Saturday Breakfast. As Tuesday.

Dinner. As Wednesday supper.

Their drink is four pints of beer daily. But on holidays, 'viz. two days at Easier, Ascenfon-day, two at Whitsuntide, three at the fair time, and two at Christmas, they have for dinner, smoked or salt meat or bacon, beans or pease, carrots or cabbage, and the three fair days they have strong beer.

f There are many of these rooms, or honfes of confinement in Holland, called Vnbeterbuisun. The regulations of some of them 1 collected; but as they are liable to abnfe, and contrary to the general notions of public juJHee, I cannot but wilh that they were nniverfally suppreded.

I 2 on

S9

Amstei*

DAM

Rasp-

house.

Spin-

HOUSE.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Inm-

»AM

S*i«-

om.

Tax.

on a scaffold. The mother was seated at a desk (where the had a full view of her family at work) with a Bible before her. As I staid longer than a common vifitanc, ewe of the prisoners went of to the mistress with the timid modesty of a suppliant, and aflted leave to osier me die plate. The leave was granted. The mistress kept what was given, dll h amounted to a film sufficient to purchase a little tea or toffee, for all to partake.

The kitchen, the dining and lodging-rooms, were on the ground-floor. In each of the three bed rooms were ten wooden cases, with a draw mattress, two coverlets, sheets, and one large pillow, for two persons. All were clean, and ihewed the attention of the regents.

In this house you might fee a number of criminals (in 1776, there were thirty-two; in 1778, forty-six; in June .78., thirty-rwo, and in November, forty) some of whom had been the most abandoned, lining in pretence of the mother, quiet and orderly at their different forts of work; spinning, plain work &c. Of the latter fort much was lent in from the city. They had the fame holidays as at the Rasp-house. Hours of work from fix to twelve, and from one to eight. 1 saw them go from work to dinner:* the keeper, or father as they called him, presided. First they fang a psalm: then they went in order down to a neat dining-room; where they feared themselves at two tables; and several dilhes of boiled barley, agreeably sweetened, were fee before diem. The father (truck with a hammer: then in profound silence all flood up; and one of diem read with propriety, a prayer about four or five minutes. Then they fin down cheerful; and each filled her bowl, from a large dish which contained enough for four of them. Then one brought on a waits, slices of bread and butter, and served each prisoner.

This house was supported by afmall annual Taxon those who fell tobacco, beer and other liquors, and one fearth fart of what was received at public exhibitions and droerfions.

At my vilit in June 1783, the prifooers were all removed into the new work-btmfe.

TkeDin of tie

Sente/ Dinner.

Slipper. Hernia/ Dimer.

Sapper. Tm/itKf Dinner.

Sapper. Wtimjd*) Dinner.

Sapper. Ybmrfdgy Dinner.

Sapper. Friday Dinner.

Sapper. SstmSp Dinner.

Sanner.

prisoners was as follows.

Cat-cabbage with meat* Battermilk.

White beans.

Sweet milk with bailey. Beans.

Battermilk.

Grey peaie.

Battermilk.

Barley.

Bread and beer.

White beans. Bitterailk.

Beans.

Battermilk.

Here

r

A:ms terdjAM,

/. PnrtrnrJ^vfor

o

r. JO^rttfs J&*om

o

.7. f//Jj>t'rf(‘rrIi<H>rt/.t 4. iV,tnrfts>vxfjr .5. JCrffftr/t'f fi. Jitikrfltvixr

Jtffhtorte*

8. Corr/tff>rv /htWcti y. Crit/tirtti/.r f<wrt

10.Bath*

11. Pump* 4 1 12. Vaato

Sect. IV.

HOLLAND.

Here (as at feme other towns in Holland) was a prison or Work-house for (lighter offences. This was called the old rasp-house, and was worthy of observation, as a well regulated house of industry. Here were confined beggars and vagabonds, who for the first time were committed for six weeks, and for the second three months i but for the third their punishment was either a longer period of confinement or banishment___Drunkards also were here confined, and such as were guilty

of petty larceny.—In a large room at one of my visits I saw forty-six women carding, lpinning and reeling; twelve weaving coarse linen or sail-cloth; thirteen making and mending linen; one employed in keeping the room clean; and the mother holding a fiate, on which were inscribed the names of the prisoners.* Some men and boys were in another large room, in which there were many looms. But most of the men were at work in the courts, boiling and picking oakum for calking the seams of ships. Among these men I counted forty or fifty women; and in 1781, there were twenty-five men and one hundred and twenty women all employed in the lame manner ;f except five or six who were mending the linen of the house.

The women’s bed-room was spacious; and I found it clean and in order, though 1 was there before ten o’clock in the forenoon.

This house was provided, with (what seems to be much wanted in the Dutch prisons) an infirmary; but it was too small and close for the purpose.

The diet of the prisoners was the fame as in the Spin-house.J Their provisions were bought in considerable quantities. The rye for bread was on the floor in an airy room, and was sweet and good. The produce of the prisoners work was applied to the maintenance of the house, and the 'deficiency was made up from the Sfin-house tax. The expence for each prisoner was full five stivers a day. Their number was generally from a hundred and fifty, to two hundred.—Thefe prisoners are removed into the New Work-house or house of correction, which at my visit in June 1783, was finished. There were four hundred prisoners. The ingenious architect Mr. Vander Hart favoured me with the plan of this elegant and commodious building.

Three father* and three mothers were appointed to superintend this house. One father had the direction of the house-keeping, and the other two overlooked the manufactory. One mother managed the kitchen $ and the office of the others was to keep the prisoners cleanly* and to take care of their bedding.

f The prisoners at the new work-house have the fame employment: here is a quick sale for oakum 5 for the Admiralty and India company find the old cords, and take the oakum when fit for nte.

t Though in the houses of correction in Holland, the prisoners have meat only on Sundays, yet the pease, beans, barley, &c. are always made into a kind of thick soup or pottage, which is very oalatable, and is served of hot at noon.

6l

Amstik

CAM.

New

Work.

House.

I mull

FOREIGN PRISONS.

6c

AaST e ' DAM Po*- Cl'. I mull not omit the Dsl-buu, an hospital for the infant, as it is the belt of the kind I ever saw, and would be a good plan for a bridewell, with the addition of working rooms. The ground plot is rectangular (eighty feet by fifty-five): the keeper's house takes up one of the (hotter fides: the other three sides have, on the ground-floor, rooms in the recess of a walk eight feet and a half wide under arcades, enclosed from the area or garden by a wall to the height of near four feet; the upper pan, to the crown of the arch, open. Each person has a separate room ten feet four inches by seven feet, and ten high, with two doors: some of the inner doors are latticed; the outer frequently stand open. Over the door is an aperture in the wall of about a foot diameter, with a (hutter.

>*, ? r- ' - tor‘f. In a small court there are twelve rooms (marked with the letters of the alphabet) for the outrageous. Each has one strong door, always (hut, with an aperture for the introduction of victuals, which are put into a clean copper bason chained on the outside. There were also apertures over the doors as in the other court. The rooms in both courts are for the poor. At all my visits I observed every thing remarkably neat and clean. Over the rooms of the first court, there are larger rooms for those whose friends can pay for them. Common visitants are not allowed to go up: but, tnjudicioujff, every one that pays four (livers is admitted below.— The windows all open to the court, none outwards. I vif:ted the ped-house, and several hospitals for the Tick; but shall only observe in general the impropriety of keeping the patients too warm, by placing their beds, with woollen curtains, in small recejfes (or cupboards) in the walls.* The women's ward in the gast-bujs, which was. formerly a church, is an exception. This is lofty and spacious, with windows opposite to one another and a (lone floor; and though full of patients, it was not in the lead offensive. In the Orpban-house at Amsterdam there were about thirteen hundred children of both sexes, June to, 17S3. The rooms for the directors and the kitchen were neat and clean; but the bed-rooms were close and unhealthy, being crowded with beds with three or four children for each bed. The infirmaries were situated on the ground-floor; and the beds in them with two or three children in each enclosed in boxes in the walls. For want of air, the work-rooms, school-rooms and refectories were so unhealthy and offensive, that the children here (as in three other orphan-houles in this city, and in the orphan-house at Rotterdam) are indeed objects of great companion. Many of the servants in these houies are old and indolent; the children miserably nasty, and mod of them troubled with scorbutic and cutaneous disorders to a great degree. On observing this to some of the directors, they replied in words that gave me pain and excited my indignation, “ It

T'n: - unhealthy mode of placing the beds, is general in the houses of the common people in 1 ('Hand.

is

Sect. IV.

HOLLAND.

is tl)e house disorder; all our children must have a leafoning.” Thus do die physicians and governors excuse the abuse of their trust. The consequence must be, that few of the children reach manhood, and that such as do, are a feeble and lickly race.

In the prison at Leeuwarden several were confined for petty offences; but there

has been no execution for fourteen years past.

At my former visit there were thirty-four men in the Rajp-house, and in November 1781 there were forty-five. A few of them were rasping logwood with an instrument composed of ten saws: others combing and spinning black wool: others spinning twine, weaving lacks, and coarse linen cloth, &c. At their leisure they make Ihoe-pegs, tobacco-stoppers, sugar-saucers of brass wire, &c. and fell them to visitants. In the Spin-house adjoining, were thirty-six women, and in November 1781, twenty-nine: all at work, preparing thread, spinning, See. except one, whom the mistress going up with me from her breakfast found idle in a warehouse; and not only chided her for it sufficiently, but entertained me with her murmurs upon the offence .1 good while after; from- whence I concluded the fault was not a very common one.

For the refractory, here are two closets, the bottoms and sides of which are pieces of wood placed edgeways, where being confined without ihoes, they must be in a painful situation.

In the prison for the Military at Groningen there were two prisoners. The gallows joins to the prison.

There is all'o here a prison for the province. On the gallows, which is placed on elevated ground at a distance from the town, a criminal was hanging (November 1781) who had been executed the year before. In this country malefactors are often thus left to hang after execution, till they drop into a well (or deep pit) underneath, which is designed for the reception of their bones.

Over the gate of the Rasp and Spin-house, there is the following inscription:

Vitiorum femina—otium labore exbmtriendum. Amo 1664.

On the ground-floor are four rooms for men. In each is an aperture two feet by three and a half into the wool-warehouse above. These were lately made by the advice of a judicious physician (Profefi'or Camper) who thought the men’s rooms not sufficiently airy, though they have opposite windows; the men sleeping as well as working in them: on which account they are ft ill somewhat offensive. Women have a work-room and a lodging-room quite separate; both of them very clean. All the prisoners were employed in spinning wool. In November 1781 there were nineteen men and thirteen women. Here is a small chapci, in which the women fit on benches: and the men have an opening in their room opposite to the pulpit.

In

Amster-

DAM

Orphan-

house.

Leeuwar-

den.

Gronin-

gen.

6+

FOREIGN PRISONS.

ZWOLLE-

VmzcFT.

orix-

pr-F.

In the prison at Zwolle in Overyflel there were no felons, nor has there been an execution there for many years.

The house of correction (Tucbt-buys) erected in 1735, 's a neat building situated on the ramparts. In November 1781 there were in it seventeen men and twenty-six women. There is an iron latticed door in the front, and over it the device of a dragon chained. This and another door open into a court, on two sides of which are rooms for the mem. In each of these I law three or four prisoners, and they all slept as well as marked in their rooms. On the other two sides are the keeper’s apartments, in which the windows are properly placed to overlook the court. The women were on the first floor in two separate work-rooms, {pinning and knitting. Nine of them who had been branded were working in a room by themselves; and they had also a -separate lodging-room. The men were spinning, except two who were weaving, and had their door open into the court.

As I examined this prison at the desire of Professor Camper, who thought it one of the best in Holland, I here give the plan of it.

At Utrecht, in 1776, no prisoners in the Stadt-house; in 1778, no debtors, and only one criminal, and his offence not capital: in 1781, no debtors; and but live offenders, two of whom were to be confined to bread and water; and in June j - ’3, only three prisoners. There has not been an execution for the city or province tilde twenty years. The allowance for debtors, the first: week, is twenty-eight stivers a day; the second week, sixteen; and every day afterwards, eight stivers. f The ftatc allows criminals thirteen stivers a day, which are paid to the gaoler. For, as he told me, “ confinement here is not meant as punishment; but only as safe * custody till trial. J After which, some who are to be punifoed by a short imprison-" ment arc sent to another prison, where they live on bread and water only. ” He said a woman who had been his prisoner, was that day sentenced to be so punished for a fortnight: but he added, “ She will have a suficient quantity; and if foe be ill, her food will be altered.”

1 went over the Sfin-boujc with Mr. Van Gcens, one of the magistrates, to whole kindness I am indebted for the following account of the instructions to the keeper. In this house, at a former visit, were thirty-seven men, and thirty-four women. They were all employed in carding and spinning wool, and knitting. The men were three in a room. The women were separated, according to their crimes.—In October -Si, there were fifty men and twenty-six women. Nine women who had been publicly whipped, had a work-room and bed-room separate from the rest. In June

See F:cfc2br Camper's alteration at Groningen, page 63.

f la the rerieterbmzfB a gradation is also obferred in the alimentary allowance.

The fame obfrrvztior. I remember wm made to me by the keeper at Nimeguen, where the aHcAiace w tea stivers. There were no prisoners.

1783,

-Plaits

Vestibule Yt.Pufsage C. Wards Vi.Beds

T^. Kitchens T. Courts

G. Gardens

Saaif off)*t.

H. Stair Cases

I. Cistern

K. Tuntps

L. Closets

gt>

Sect. IV.

HOLLAND.

65

1783, there were twenty-five men, and thirty-six women, thirty of the women in one room, and fix in another.

The overfccr or keeper has a house for the residence of himself and his family, and an annual salary of a thousand guilders from the Hates, and a hundred and thirty from the city, clear of all deductions. According to the copy of inJlruCliotts, he mull: not be absent a night out of the city, without leave from the chief officer and the regents. Pie mult, with afiistants, search every part of the cells twice a week, to fee whether any thing be done—attempted—or introduced, that is not permitted: and he mull: carefully inspect all things that are conveyed to the prisoners, that no tools, or glals, no gin or other Jirong liquors may be concealed: and he mull: himself, or one of his family, be present when any persons come to fee the house, and no more than fix visitants are to be admitted at one time. He mull fee that the provisions for the prisoners be good; and take care that the manufacturer pays the fame for their work, as he would if he employed others. He mult confine those condemned for a long term, in strong rooms separate from the rest. He may correct moderately; but if the prisoners are refractory, and deserve fevercr punishment, he mult inform the regents. By a particular permission from the magistrates, he may take in as boarders, persons of bad behaviour, at the desire of their parents, guardians or relations.—The regents only can appoint, or discharge, a servant, or turnkey.

Leewenberch Cnft-huys, in the suburbs of the city, was endowed (as appears by an inscription upon it) by a lady of that name for a pest-house, and built in 1567. I choose to give a plan and description of it, because I think it capable of being improved into a model for a good county hospital. There is an afeent of two steps into the vestibule, which has two folding-doors on both fidcs, and windows over them, and a staircase to rooms above. On the sides of an extensive passage there are four spacious wards, thirty feet high. A part of one of these has been converted into a kitchen; and in each of the other three there are twelve beds. They have galleries for opening the windows; and two flues from each chimney meet over the middle windows. Like the hospitals in Italy there are no rooms over the wards; this is a circumstance very favourable to the health of the patients. The floors consist of square bricks, and are supported by strong pillars and arches ten feet wide. From the rooms over the vestibule is the entrance to an open gallery (eight feet wide) over the passage, from which all the wards may be seen. By opening the opposite doors, this house may be always kept cool'and frclh. It is one of the driest: I ever visited. The rain-water is conducted from the roof through vaults built on the outside of the wards, to prevent them from being offensive.

At Deventer, the prison is near the river Iffel. It consists of four rooms, which were all clean and landed, but had no prisoners. When there are any, sixteen stivers a day are paid for each; which the gaoler receives, as at most other towns.

K Prisoners

Utrecht

Spin-

IIOUSK

LtEtt EX KERCH

Gast-

H V Y5.

Deventer.

66

FOREIGN PRISONS.

DirisTiK. Prisoners for capital offences are removed to the Stadt-house, where the fame allowance is continued.

I leave this country with regret, as it affords a large field for information on the important subject I have in view. I know not which to admire mod, the neatness and cleanUaefs appearing in the prisons, the industry and regular conduit of the prisoners, or the humanity and attention of the magistrates and regents.*

GERMANY.

Th e Germans, well aware of the necessity of cleanlincjs in prisons, have very judiciously chosen to build them in flotations most conducive to ic; that is, near rivers: as at Hanover, Zell, Hamburg, Berlin, Bremen, Cologn, Mentz, and many other places.

In the gaols that I first saw, there were but few prisoners, except those called, improperly, gallej-slaves. One cause of this, is a speedy trial after commitment.

The galley-slaves have every where a prison to themselves. They work on the reads, the fortifications, chalk-bills, and other public service; for four, seven, ten, fifteen, twenty years, according to their crimes: and are clothed, as well as fed, by the government. At Wefel, which belongs to the King of Prussia, there were ninety-eight of these Haves: they have two pounds of bread a day, and the value of three halfpence every day they work.

I saw but a very few under-ground dungeons in any new prisons abroad; in Germany none, except at Liege. At Lunenburg the dungeons are disused: and instead of them are built additional rooms up stairs; one for each prisoner. And in many of the gaols each criminal is alone in his room; which is more or less strong, lightsome, and airy, as the crime he is charged with is more or less atrocious.

One often fees the doors of sundry rooms marked Ethiopia, India, Italy, France, England, See. In those rooms, parents, by the authority of the magistrates, confine for a certain term dissolute children: and if they are inquired after, the answer is, they are gone to Italy, England, &c.

I do not remember any prison in Germany (nor elsewhere abroad) in which felons have not, either from the public allowance, or from charities, fbmewhat more to

I fhoald acciifc mjfcif of ingratitude, did oat I take this occasion again to exp refs my acknowledgment; to Sir Je/efi Terii; who, not only exerted himself with ardour to promote the fuceefs of my inquiries; but while I was confined at the Hague in consequence of an accident, favoured me with infiacces of kindnefi and friendship that I never can forget.

live

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

«7

live on than bread and water. In some places a person goes on market-days with a basket for prisoners: and I have seen him hring them a comfortable meal of fresh vegetables. But there are separate prisons, in which confinement for a week or two on bread and water is all the punishment for some petty offences. Perhaps, When a condemned criminal is only to live a day or two, such diet may be more proper than the indulgence with which the Germans, and other foreigners treat prisoners after sentence of death, which is commonly executed within forty-eight hours. The malefactor has then his choice of food, and wine, in a commodious- room, into which his friends are admitted; and a minister attends him during almost all his remaining hours.

I went into Germany in June 1778, by Ofnabrug and Hanover. The prison at Oskassog. Osnabrug I mould entirely omit, did I not entertain a hope, that the account of it may possibly engage the notice of an amiable Prince who is the present bishop, and so be the means of alleviating the fofferings of the miserable prisoners. The prison and the house of correction is one large building, situated in an airy part of the luburbs, near a brook. A Latin inscription over the gate implies, that it was erected “ at the public expence, in 1756, for the purpofos of public justice and utility, by confining and punishing the wicked.”—There are seventeen chambers for criminals, which have no light but by a small aperture over each door. I was happy to find here no more than one prisoner. He had been confined three years, and had survived the cruelty of the torture.* In another part of the house I found many miserable and sickly objects, men, women and children, almost all without shoes and stockings. They were spinning in different rooms, which were dirty beyond description. These rooms open into an offensive passage, which a gentleman in office in the city, to whom I was recommended, durst not enter. I inquired of the keeper concerning several particulars in the diet, &c. but the misery expressed in the countenances of the prisoners, made me totally disregard the information given me by words.

At Bremen the tower, or prison for debtors, has four rooms; but in 1776 the Bremen. magistrate who accompanied me. Dr. Hanewinkel, assured me not one of them had been occupied for above thirty years, till very lately; when one was fitted up for .1 debtor, who was confined in it a few weeks. In 1781 I found it still remained unoccupied.—Over the door of this prison is inscribed.

Hie fraudum terminus efto.

That there were few debtors, or none at all, in such towns as MentZ, CoblentZ,

Manheim, &c. may be aferibed to their being places of but little trade. In such

The mode of torture here is mote excruciating than in not other countries, and is known by the Game of the Ofnabrug torture. I doubt not but the humanity and good icnfe of his royal highness, 'till abolish it when he comes of age.

K 1

large

FOREIGN PRISONS.

68

Bunn.

flot' i E

Correction.

large trading cities as Hamburg, and Bremen, it seems owing to the little credit that is given—the expence of aliment, &c. falling on the creditor—the being separated from their families, and deprived of every kind of amusement and diversion while in prison—and the disgrace of being the re.

Debtors arc not permitted, in any German cities that I have seen, to have their wives and children living with them in prison.

In 1781 I was obliged to apply to the magistrates for permission to visit the prisons, one of the keepers having lately been confined fourteen days to bread and water, for suffering a townsman to converse with a prisoner.

The Gaol is a tower at one of the gates. In the lower part there are four strong rooms (or cellsJ about thirteen feet four inches by fix feet eight, and fix feet high. The doors are four feet ten inches high and five inches thick, with iron plates between the boards. The windows are only small apertures (fourteen inches by nine). I found a prisoner in the fame cell in which I had seen him five years before. He had made his escape, but had been retaken.—There has been no execution in this city for twenty-six years.

In another Prison down ten steps from the (beer, there are fix rooms for criminals without windows. One was fix feet nine inches by four feet and a half, and seven feet high: another was ten feet by five and a half, and fix feet high. The allowance is fix fous (3 id) a day, but there were no prisoners. In this difinal abode, one bad lately beat himself to death against the wall, which was stained with his blood.

At the Clock-tower there are several rooms for petty offenders, whose diet is only bread and water; the allowance three fous (ifd) a day. But their term of confinement is seldom longer than fix, eight, or fourteen days.

The House of correSiou situated on the Weser is indeed a house of industry; and very quiet. In 1776 there were eleven men and twenty-eight women, and in 1781, nine men and nineteen women, all at work; except a woman who had broke her leg. The stronger and less docile men rasp logwood: others weave a set talk of bair carpets. See. The keeper appoints a weaver in the house to instrudt every new comer, who generally teaches him the art in a short time.—The women’s apartments were very clean; their work is spinning cows and goats hair, knitting &c.—The diet of the men differed from that of the women only in quantity; two men were in a mess, and three women. They have meat only on Sundays and great holidays.— The keeper has 2 fa)ary, and fells nothing.—The prisoners defeend by a trap-door into the gallery of the church, where the men and women are separated, and have wooden balustrades before them.

This church belongs to an adjoining poor-house (Stat arrnen' bans) in which there is a number of clean rooms opening into passages seven feet wide, and large enough to hold four beds in each. The number of poor in these rooms was one hundred and eighty, about eighty of whom were knitting) spinning and sewing in a

large

Sect.IV.

GERMANY.

«9

large work-room. The regulations for the conduit of the house were hung up in Bremen. the refe&ory. The poor are here liberally accommodated in the decline of life j and their cheerful countenances cannot but give great pleasure to all who visit them.-—Above stairs is a neat apothecary’s (hop, and a room for the inspedors which opens into the church, and in which are inscribed the names, of the inspeBors from 1712, and of the deacons from 1698.

Not long since this city was remarkable for the number of children begging in the streets; but a Work-house has been lately established for the purpose of employ- Work

ing the m; and here, in two rooms, I saw about one hundred and seventy, from fix to l,ol'S1,

nine years of age, spinning (with small wheels) under proper matters and mistresses.

They are allowed at least twelve fous (6 id) a week, and all were clean, and seemed cheerful and happy; but were not allowed either diet or lodging in the house. The benefits arising from clearing the streets of such a nuisance have induced the inhabitants of other places, to make inquiries concerning this useful plan.

The Orders and regulations are hung up in the house, and consist of nineteen articles, from which I have made the following extracts.

ARTICLE

I. The children jnuit not come into the house without their heads combed, and their hands and

face washed. For the first neglect they are reprimanded, for the second punished.

II. Parents mull keep their children quite clean.

HI. The children jnuft obey their governors.

IV. They mull endeavour to learn well and quick.

V. Work begins in the morning from fix to eight, according to the length of the day; and in the

afternoon always at one.

VI. One hour after they have begun work they are to be called over, hear prayers, and sing a hymn.

VII. to XIII. Direct the punishment to be inflicted for not attending regularly, and their treatment

in case of sickness.

XIV. Orders the puniflunents for fwcaring, injuring others, and damaging the work.

XV. Relates to the conduct of parents who hinder their children from regular attendance, in this

house or at schonl.

XVI. Declares the peculiar attention the magistrates will give to those parents, Stc. who bring up

their children in the fear of God, and in obedience to these regulations.

XVII. to XIX. Describe the rewards to children for their attention and diligence.

The contributions to defray the expence of this useful inflitution arc voluntary; and a collection for this purpose is made from house to house, every week. No subscription is taken less than one grofehen per week; and the greatest subscription is thirty-six grofehe a week.

I fat ail afternoon with Dr. Duntze of Bremen, who told me he was :n London in 1753 and 54, with an inquisitive friend, a German. They went into Newgale to observe t.he effects of the ventilator; and were struck with an offensive smell in one of the rooms. Next day they were both indisposed. The DoAor’s complaint turned out a kind of jaundice. After a few days confinement he visited his friend, and found him excessively low; and in a short time he died with every symptom of the gaol-fever.

The

7°

foreign prisons.

Hakotek

PtIIOX.

House

OF

CcJSEC-

The Prison at Hanover was built about thirty years ago on the banks of the river Leyna; and conGfts of twenty-six rooms for confinement. The lower rooms have double doors, with large apertures over them guarded by double iron bars. These openings being opposite to the windows afford the prisoners the only fresh air they are allowed. Their beds are lblid stone, a little elevated above the floor, and higher at the head than the feet, with draw on them and two coverlets. In winter the rooms are wanned by (loves, but being too near the water, and lower than the street, they mud be unhealthy, and this appears from the countenances of the prisoners. The upper rooms are larger apartments for debtors, &c. When I visited this prison in 1776, I found in it one debtor and seven criminals; in 1778, two debtors and three criminals; and in October 1781, there were twenty-nine prisoners, many of whom had been confined a year, and others six months, without being brought to trial. Seven or eight of them were women, feme of whom had been committed with their husbands, but lodged in different rooms. The allowance to all is the fame, two marien grofehe (or 2{d.) per day. Seven of the lower rooms are for the more atrocious criminals. At my last visit I found seven prisoners (one in each room) secured by chains on their feet fattened to the walls, and irons on their wrists with a bar between, two feet long. The keeper is allowed a salary, and fells no liquor. He is old and infirm, and the prison grows evidently dirtier as he grows older.—A guard of fix soldiers and an officer is llationed here day and night, who arc relieved every morning at eight, and do duty alternately by taking two hours tneft and four repose, so that each soldier is on guard eight out of the twenty-four hours.—The various edicts for regulating this prison are put into frames, and hung in the council-chamber.

The execrable practice of torturing prisoners is here used, in a cellar where the horrid engine is kept. The rime for it is, as in other countries, abouc two o’clock in the morning. A criminal suffered the Ofnabrug torture twice about two years ago; the last time, at putting to him the third quefiiotn (the executioner having tom off the hair from his head, breast, &c.) he confessed, and was executed. On such occasions a counsellor and secretary attend, with a doctor and surgeon, an Ofnabrug executioner and sometimes the gaoler. If the criminal faints, strong salts are here applied to him, and not vinegar as in some other places.

The House of corrcBion is a new building in an airy situation, appropriated to vagrants, children and petty offenders. Here were ninety-four prisoners, fifty-eight of whom were children, clothed in a neat uniform of blue and white linfey-woolfey made in the house. The girls were all (pinning cotton and linen. The boys, in some rooms were carding, and spinning wool and linen, and making lift shoes and carpets. In one room there were fix boys (the eldest only twelve years of age) working at so many small looms for faddle girths and clothes. In two other rooms there was a number of women employed in spinning. There are also two small rooms for

harder

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

7s

harder work, such as rasping logwood and harts-horn. The coverlets of all the beds had been made in the house. Besides their own clothes, &c. the prisoners here make girths, flippers and lift carpets for sale, specimens of which I brought with me. The orders for regulating the hours of work, learning, recreation, &c. were hung up in the school-room. Both old and young Were neat and clean; and every thing in the house appeared quiet and orderly.

This institution, of only two years standing, does great honour to the founder and director Mr. burgomaster Akmann, and is the belt monument that can ever be erected for him. A good choice has been made of proper persons to prelide, and inspect j which is a circumstance of the greatest importance in such houses.*

In the town-house at Brunswick there are several rooms of confinement for citizens, but they were unoccupied.

The tower, or prison for capital offences, is over one of the gates. It consists of three rooms, but none of them had been occupied for a considerable time. There had been no execution for fourteen years.

In the prison for the slaves, the barracks were without beds. They had heavy irons, and at a former visit their countenances were unhealthy. But in October 1781, they appeared healthy and clean, and were furnished with shoes, stockings and proper clothing. The irons were fixed round their waists and shoulders, and not their legs. My visit being on Sunday, I observed that their barrows, which had all chains on the handles, were ranged on the outside of the house, ready for work the next day.

The work-house, or House of correction, stands near the river that runs through the city. In October 1781, there were here about seventy prisoners, who are always locked up. On the first and second floor the men and women sleep in boxes in the passages. In the work-rooms (it being Sunday) I was much furpriled to find them all (except some lunatics in chains) employed in carding and spinning. This accounted for the keeper’s preventing me from seeing them at chapel, by saying no person was admitted. I was however admitted after the service, and concluded from the sand on the floor at the prisoners benches, that few or none had attended. My conductor infilled on carrying a pan of charcoal through the rooms; but his fumigation could not overcome the offensiveness of this dirty house.

On one of the doors, both within and without, was hung up the following order, dated December 12, 1748. “ That decent people may inspect the house—but no

The weight of Bread In this city corresponded to the affine,

Fine n. t OZ. 10 at 1 jaarien grofebe (2 d).

Second 4 4 - a bonne grefebe (j.’d).

Third s 7 ditto. ditto.

Here, as in the PruiTtan and many other cities, there is also a standard for beef, veal, mutton, pork, &c.

<«

Hanover

House

of

Correction.

Bruns

\V ICK.

House

OF

CORREC*

TION.

more

FOREIGN PRISONS.

7i

BtUtii-

K!CK-

Zell.

Ll'SES-

ICEC.

Haisv ec.

Ha'151 A

“ more than four at a time—that they must put a florin (21. 6d.) into the bos, for “ the prisoners whose term is expired, to assist them in passing on their journey, and “ prevent them from begging or dealing.—Laftly, nothing must be given to the " keepers, or to the prisoners confined for punishment. ”

At Zell, in the electorate of Hanover, is a large work-house or house of correction.

At Luxemburg, I found the convicts employed on a different work from any I had before seen; digging stone from a large chalk-hill: others were preparing it for the kiln, grinding, lilting, packing, &c. in the warehouses. The calks are about three hundred weight. It is lent to Hamburg and other distant places, as it makes an excellent cement. Many other men were employed, but the criminals, of whom there were thirty-one, had a chain of about four pounds. Their allowance was one pound and a half of bread, and three halfpence in money: provisions much cheaper than in England.

At Harbcrc there were thirteen Haves working on the fortifications, with irons on one leg, and chains supported by girdles round their waists. Their allowance is three halfpenny worth of ammunition bread, and five farthings a day. They are guarded by soldiers, who have orders to fire on them if they attempt to escape. But, notwithstanding this, when the Elbe was frozen over (1780) five escaped to Hamburg.

In the great and opulent city of Hamburg in 1776, I visited all the prisons with every advantage, through the kindness of my friend. Senator Vogbt. In the Buttuiey the felons were all in irons. The common method of execution is decollation. The executioner (who is gaoler) shewed me the sword kept for this purpose, telling ine he had made use of it eight times. Here is no court-yard, and only one day-room on the ground-floor. Above stairs, there are fix or eight strong rooms about ten feet square. Allowance for each prisoner is four marks a week (a mark ir. 3d.). Divine service is constantiy performed on Sundays and Thursdays.—In 1781, there were only two criminals and one debtor. I saw them at chapel, and they seemed very attentive and much affected. The prison was clean: but I perceived by the countenance of the gaoler and his unwillingness to shew me again the torture-room, that he had seen my publication. For among the various engines of torture, or the

question, which I have seen in France, Italy, Germany, and other places, one of the most excruciating is kept and used in a deep cellar of this prison. It ought ro be buried ten thousand fathom deeper.* It is said the inventor was the first who differed by it the lall was a woman, a few years ago.

The Werk-und Tucbt-baus is a work-house situated near the Aider, and designed for the reception of the poor—beggars—and petty offenders. Confinement in it is not reckoned infamous. The rooms are fifteen feet wide, and have opposite windows. The inhabitants were knitting and spinning j weaving (lockings, linen, hair, and

Set the Marquis Btccaria, Chap. XVI. Of Torture.

WOOl;

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

73

wooland ralping logwood and hartshorn; (the talk of logwood to a strong man is forty-five pounds per day.) Some men and horses worked at a fulling-mill; and a Wo*lt' smith was in constant employment. At a former visit I saw in the great room about three hundred women and girls; and in 1781 the whole number in the house was about six hundred. There is kept a regular account of the earnings, of the amount of which each person receives one-fourth.

I was happy to find, at my last visit, a great alteration in the countenances of the inhabitants, and in the (late of the house, as to deanliness. It is governed by eight directors (or regents) who mull be married men. They meet every Saturday in a room appropriated to them, to examine, and give orders. There is also a room for their ladies, who meet at the same time to deliver out the women’s work; and too much cannot be said in praise of their care and attention.

In the chapel, the men have a room below, and the women above. An hour is spent in the service here every morning.

There are several dark rooms for the confinement of the refractory (thirteen feet by four feet nine inches,) over which are the names Ethiopia, India, London, &c.—

There is a spacious and convenient kitchen and bake-house. But the lick rooms both for the men and women are too small.

In the room where the regents meet are their names and arms; and also the regulations, which Mr. Van Haffel, one of the regents, was so kind as to give me, together with a hook containing an account of the inRitution, reprinted in 1766 from the original in 1622.

This book contains—infiruftions for the governors—orders for the officers of the house (such as Reward, school-maiter, task-master, clerk, ralp-maRer, turnkey, and porter)—and regulations for the management of the poor, and of such as have been committed for offences.

The Steward is to ring a bell every morning at five, (Sundays excepted) as a signal for the officers, the poor, &c. to rife and prepare for prayers. He is then to deliver the keys to the turnkey. He and his wife are to distribute the meals, and to lee that all in the house are properly infiru&ed as to moral and religious duties. They are required to efiabliih and preserve good order and harmony among the other officers. The Reward muR not permit the poor, or the wives, children and servants of the other officers, to converse with such as arc confined for offences, or to buy or fell any thing for them.

The School-maJter muR instru£t the children in religion, and encourage them, at proper times, to learn and repeat portions of Scripture.' He muR also teach them, reading, writing and accounts, and a decent behaviour to those that visit the house.

He muR take care that they attend divine service, and are orderly at it 3 and his wife, with the wives of the other officers, are required to examine the rooms, in order to guard againR mischief, and wicked contrivances, and the danger of file.

L The

74

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Hmios The Tajk-mnjlcr on Monday morning must give every person a particular talk Tor Won- the week, and on Saturday take an account of it. In giving their talks, attention

U°'"E' must be paid to the trade in which they had been employed, and to their ability

and (kill.—The taik-master is not permitted to undertake any work, either by him-fell or his wife, for his own private advantage.—His wife has the care of all the linen of the house; and to fee it regularly delivered, - &c.

The Clerk must keep an exaA account, of the receipts, and expenditure, of all the money, and materials—for work—provisions—and furniture.

The Raff-maficr and the Turnkey have the care of the criminals—to conduct them to, and from their work—to prepare their wood and tools, and to serve them with provisions. Every Saturday the ralp-maiier mull: Ice that all their rooms are iwept and thoroughly waftted. He is never to go abroad without being permitted by the steward, and delivering to him the keys. He must avoid all familiarity in convening with the criminals. The taik-master with the rasp-master, must carefully vilic the bed-rooms of the prisoners two or three times every week, and examine their bedding and straw, and every Saturday get all the rooms thoroughly cleansed.

The Porter must not suffer any of the poor to go out, without leave, and obtaining a leaden [tamp from the steward. He must stand before the doors of the bed-rooms of the criminals while they pass to their work-rooms in the morning, and also when they return in the evening.

The Poor are not allowed to be absent all night, or to bring in company. Such of them as have learned to work, and appear to be reformed and industrious, are on their humble petition to be discharged.

When prisoners are brought in, they must be examined and waihed, and if necessary, clothed. Every Saturday afternoon they are to be dilmifled from work, to clean themselves and wash their rooms, and the court: after which they are to receive clean Hurts, and every four or six weeks, clean bed linen.

Absence from prayers—swearing, curling, lying and cheating—quarrelling, or seeing others quarrel and fight without giving notice to the steward or school-master—arc punished by fine, or forfeiture. All who commit any violence, or attempt an cfcapc, together with those who abet or conceal them, are punished by a prolongation of their term of confinement, if not in some other way. Such as refafe to work, are to be punished with short allowance, or with stripes; and for a continued refusal, must be ignominioufiy expoled or put into the pillory. After an escape they are recommitted and punished; but for the second escape they are banished from the city and territory.

1 observed in the table of Set, that the poor are allowed no meat, except on the greet fejfrcals. At their meals they arc allowed rye bread, and at breakfajl butter with it. At oncer and Jnpper they are allowed peeled barley, oats or buck-wheat hot, with milk (which in that city is remarkably good). The logwood-rafpers and hemp-beaters, are allowed a double quantity of bread and butter.—The lick are

allowed

Sect. IV.

DENMARK.

7 f

allowed a better diet, confiding of white bread, beer, soup or meat, just as ordered

by the physician.

In the Spin-house, (confinement in which is accounted' tnfamoui), the men were employed in spinning, in more lightsome rooms than those of the other house. In 1776, there were seventy-three prisoners, and in 1781, fifty-two.

Here, as at some other towns, is a prison for flight offences (Roken-Kijie). The punishment to be confined for three or four days to two or three weeks, and live on bread and water only. To prevent the prisoners having any thing else, what money they bring with them is taken and lealed up; but it is returned to them when discharged.

The Hospital for the lick (formerly the pefl-htu/e) Hands in the suburbs. The wards being crowded with beds, the cielings low, and the windows kept shut in the warmest days, it may properly now be called a pefi-house.

In this city, supposed to contain ninety thousand fouls, there were but three debtors in 1776, and but one in 1781 :* and in the neighbouring town Altena, which belongs to the king of Denmark, there were but two the first time, and one the last.

DENMARK.

A x the entrance of many towns in Denmark, a whipping-post Hands conspicuous; on the top of which the figure of a man is placed, with a sword by his fide, and a whip in his right hand.f Gibbets and wheels are allb placed on eminences, on which the bodies of malefactors are sometimes left after execution, to deter others from their crimes.

I here copy a few articles from the code of municipal laws* " AtlClin citoyen ne put ni ctre

emprisonne, ni aucune peine lui infiigee fans jugement prealable dc fes pairs, ponrvu qU*il donnat <* caution & que le crime ne fut pas capital. Quiconque s’etait enfiii, s’etait mis hors de la protection “ des Ioix.

“ Les biens de la femme repondarent pour les dettes d« man, & le creancier poavait tenir aux fers “ son debiteur infolvable; nul sauf-conduit pour celui-ci.

“ Les compositions eurent lieu dans les moindres delits, mais les meurtres, les vols forces ou compliques, l’apoftafie, la forceterie, la trahison, furent punis de jnort, lorfqo’on eut saisi le ciiminel “ fur le salt. ” A. Datbe's Effei/ur PHiJloire dc Hamburg, /. 21 and 23,

t Would not some public intimations of the punishment to follow crimes be nfeful also in England ? Notwithstanding the numbers of fisherroen and loose boys about Amsterdam, the Hague, and Schevelin, their public walks and beautiful plantations remain uninjured 5 which is owing, partly to the strictness of the police, and partly to the warnings given by placartx painted on boards, and hung up in different places, with representations of whipping, cutting off hands, &c.

La

Hamburg.

Spin-

house,

Hospital.

Altena.

Criminals

7«

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Rekds-

IDIC.

OOFI5»

HAGI>.

Criminals are never put into irons before their trial, unleis when they are apprehended in the ad of murder, or some other very atrocious crime. After condemnation! application is made to parliament, which either confirms, or reveries the sentence pronounced.

Some criminals are punished by being whipped in the market-place, and banished. Some of the lower fort, as wafetiam, coachmen, &c. are punished by being led through the city in what is called the Spamjb mantli. This is a kind of heavy vest, something like a tub,' with an aperture for the head, and irons to enclose the neck. I measured one at Berlin, one foot eight inches diameter at the top, two feet eleven at the bottom, and two feet eleven inches high. In order to convey a clearer idea of it, I have repreiented it in a drawing. This mode of punishment is particularly dreaded, and is one cause that mgbt-nbbtrks arc never heard of in Copenhagen.

The place of execution is out of the City. Decollation is reckoned more honourable by the fwotd than by the axe. This is the common mode of execution; but of fame more heinous crimes the punishment is breaking on the wheel; and in executing this on fiate prisoners, it has been the practice sometimes to begin with cutting off their right hands.—After the sentence of a criminal is confirmed, he is allowed rime to prepare for death, from right to fourteen days, as the chaplain attending him thinks necessary. He is confined in a cell (or dungeon) at night, but ,js allowed to be in an upper room in the day.

Executions are rare. A great number for dnld-wutrder are condemned to work in spin-houses for life, and to be whipped annually, on the day when, and the spot where, the crime was committed. This mode of pwushment is dreaded more than death, and since it has been adopted has greatly prevented the frequency of the crime.—The punishment for grand-larceny has been, lince 1771, whipping, and slavery for life

At Rekdsbcxg in Holstein, in the guard-room at the entrance of the prison, on a flare was a list of seventy-seven Haves; sixty well, and seventeen lick. They are distinguislsed by a brown coat with red sleeves, and irons on one leg, with a chain fattened to their waists. They work on the fortifications; in summer from five to eleven, and from one to fix. Their bread was coarie and black, and seemed by the taste, to be made of buck-wheat. Be (ides an allowance of bread, they have a pay of one stiver (a penny) a day.* They lie on barrack-beds. Their countenances were more clear and healthy than those of the common people, postillions, &c. who have opportunities of procuring spirituous liquors.

At Copenhagen, the State-frifem is in the citadel. In this prison there are five

or fix rooms, about fifteen feet by fourteen, with one window, and a case (or bed)

The Danish Jbldion have the fame fort and quantity of bread, and only two Divers a day.

in

COPEN HA G E S’.

Plate j "Jit

Sect. IV.

DENMARK.

77

in each. These rooms were clean and white-washed. I observed here one prisoner, who was guarded by an officer and soldier in the room, and another at the door, though the guard-room was below. The weather being then very warm, (thermometer 770.) he was permitted to have his window open: and this is all the fresh air allowed ltate-prisoners, for they are never suffered to go out of their rooms. The king makes them an ample allowance for diet. At the time of divine service, their doors are opened, and they hear it by an oblique perforation into the church, through the thick wall opposite to the doors.

I observed chains fattened to the wall, in the dole rooms, where the Counts Struenfee and Brandt had been confined.*—Here are feme dark rooms for the punishment of soldiers, but no dungeons.

In the prison at the Stat-house (Student arrtft-bus) there were nine persons confined for crimes, and eleven for debt. The female criminals were at work in their several apartments, which I observed to be clean: but the rooms of the male criminals were dirty and offensive. The allowance granted them is three marks ('27 pence) ' a week. There are in this, prison several arched damp dungeons.—A resident chaplain reads prayers to the prisoners every day.

The Blue-tower (the prison for the bailiwick and servants of the court) consists of four small rooms, on three floors. There were in it eight men and two women: their allowance is two pence a day, with which they purchase what they please of the gaoler, who keeps a public house, and has a salary from the court. Here, as well as in the prison at the Stat-house, I could not but observe the neatness of the women, whose rooms were a contrail to those of the men.f The reason is, that the gaolers'wives inspect the apartments of their own sex, and are more attentive than their husbands.

The StoS-bause is near the ramparts. Here criminals from the garrison, and convicts from the different classes of the people, are condemned to slavery. On one fide of the court belonging to this prison, there are two rooms on the ground-door, each of which, though only ten feet high, has two tiers of barrack-beds. These rooms, being crowded, are unhealthy. Over them there are two close rooms for the lick; and also a chapel, which has no gallery, the cieling being very low. Here I saw a hundred and forty-three slaves, who were distinguished by a brown coat with red sleeves, and breeches likewise of both colours. They never put off their clothes at night j and as they have new clothes only once in two years, and those very flight, I did not wonder to find many of them almost naked. Some had light chains on one leg, some heavier chains on both legs; others had iron collars: one was

Count Strutnfu having been confined above three months, when he first came out, though in view of a terrible death, exclaimed, <* O what a blefitng is frefii air! ’*

Copen-

hagen.

Stadeks

ARREST*

HUS.

Blue*

tower.

Stoct-

H AUSE.

| The reverse is common in England.

chained

7«

FOREIGN PRISONS.

COPEN-

H«CE5

Stoct-

HAOiE.

SplN-

KOUifi.

chaiocd by his write to a wheel-barrow. These, I understood, were punishments inflicted upon those of them who had attempted to escape, &c.*

On the other fide of the court, and down ten steps, there are seven arched dungeons about fifteen feet by (even, with one window eighteen inches by twelve, in which were eleven prifboers, who lay on barrack-beds.

The distress and deipair in the pale and sickly countenances of the Haves were shocking to humanity. My first visit was on Saturday; the next day I went to the service at the chapel, where, of the few that attended, the man chained to the wheel-barrow was one. They fat together on benches, and soldiers were properly-placed at different parts of the chapel, and two with bayonets fixed, flood at the door. Service being ended, the fiaves first passed down. I then revisited their rooms, where most of them lay on barracks, dirty beyond description. At my third visit, I found the prison put into better order, and swept. The offensiveness of this prison always gave me a head-ach, such as I suffered from my first visits to the Fjiglish prisons.

These Haves work on the fortifications, and their time for working in summer, is from five to eleven, and from one to fix. Their allowance is (even pounds of black bread every five days, besides a pay of one stiver a day in winter, and in summer, when they work more hours, a stiver and half. They were attended by a guard confuting of twenty foldiets. In returning from their work, I observed that some of them were chained to one another in pairs with loose chains. These, I found, were some of the worst, who had passed under the hands of an executioner and were branded; on a Hate fifty-eight in this class j and eighty-five, of the first class.

In the Spin-bonfe there were about three or four hundred prisoners furring, carding, and lpinning wool, for the king’s manufactory in this city.f The rooms are spacious, but notwithstanding this they are dose and offensive, the windows being kept shut. In the court I saw several small rooms, with one man in each, employed in either rasping or chopping logwood. Sixty-six women were confined for life,$ and all employed in carding and spinning in one room.—Separate rooms are assigned to the lick. The surgeon told me he apprehended one woman had the gaol-fever j but this probably was a mistake, for upon examining her pulse I found it ltrong and quick.

I obferred in the windows of this and two other priions, an iron ring, of about three inches diameter, on all the bars where they cross each other at right angles, to prevent their being wrenched out.

f The king’s military cloth manufactory was boilt in 1760. It is four hundred and twenty-fire feet long, and employs from five to six hundred persons. All the wool fpnn in the several houses of correction in the Danish dominions is brought to this mannfaftory. Great quantities, especially of the finer fort tot Acted for clothes for the officers, are ipun in the honfe here described.

J See /age 76, limt u.

In

Sect. IV.

DENMARK.

79

In the Ahnindelige or great hospital, there are near a thousand poor. The length of one of the wings is two hundred and seventy-five feet. In a padage (too narrow) fix feet wide, are several rooms, in each of which about ten or twelve persons were employed, mostly in spinning worsted.* Being allowed to keep all they can earn, they purchase their own provisions, according to regulations settled by the directors.f There was’ a room or two which belonged to a manufacturer, (a Scotch gentleman) whose office it was, to give out and take in their work, and to pay for it. There being no work-rooms, the bed-rooms were crowded. The sewers are very properly detached from the rest of the house, and there is a padfage to them from

It was a hardship on the aged and infirm, to be ehtiged to spin wool, when they bad been long accustomed to Ipin flax or hemp, which is cleaner.

f This being a good, though not common mode of assisting the poor, I hero give the Table of Diet, with the regimen for the Siet, as signed by the directors, and hung up.

Regulations of the price of provisions, settled by the directors, January i, 1781.

Sunday,

Monday,

utfday. Wednesday. Thursday. Friday. Saturday.

Soap of pork, beef, or lamb, with carrots, cabbage, or other vegetables according to the season: i pot for a (killing: 4 lods of beef, or 3 lodt of pork, a Hulling.

N. B. A pot is about an English quart; a/killing, a halfpenny: a lod, half an ounce.

Grout made of Febmerjkt grain, three quarters of a pot for a (killings Iceland dried cod, with sauce and mustard, a (killing.

Pease soup, three quarters of a pot, a (killing. Beef and pork, as on Sunday.

Grout made of buck-wheat and water, three quarters of a pot, a lkilling.

Coleworts cut (mail and boiled with beef, pork. Sec. one pot for a (killing.

Gray pease prepared with vinegar and floor, three quarters of a pot, a (killing.

As on Monday.

The cook shall also keep and fell to the poor, according to the regulations, bread, beer, butter, cheese, and herrings; also Danifti brandy at eighteen (killings a pot, provided that no person purchase more than a (killing’s worth in a day.

Sunday Pinner.

Monday.

'Tuesday.

Weinesday.

Thursday.

Friday.

Saturday.

Regimen for the Sick.

Beef, mutton or Iamb soup, with roots or greens, and four lods of meat, or instead of meat, a (lice of wheaten bread with butter and bread upon it.

Grout of Febmerfke grain, with butter and sweet milk.

Water-gruel, with sugar and vinegar.

Grout of buck-wheat, with butter and milk.

As on Sunday.

Barley or rice soap, with fogar vinegar and prunes, and a dice of wheaten bread, with butter and beef upon it.

As on Monday.

In case the physician or surgeon finds it necessary to change the diet of any patient, the cook most prepare whatever is ordered, provided it does not exceed the valne of the usual regimen.—Boiling water, and water-gruel mud be always ready night and day.—Patients are allowed no other provisions but the above-mentioned, and are prohibited the use of fptrits and strong liquors.—Dinner is at eleven, and supper at fix.

Landing. Wendt. Cortfen.

every

Almin-

DCLIGE.

So

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Copi*-

HACK*.

IC t *5

Hospital.

every dory, by a gallery open on the fides; which prevents the floors from being offenfrve. The passages of the several floors open into the galleries of the chapel, which is in the centre. The chaplain has fix rooms and a kitchen. He officiates on Sundays, and has a salary of three hundred dollars a year, (a Danish dollar is 3*. <)d.) besides some perquisites; but he has no other charge to attend. A clerk officiates at eight, every morning, and is allowed two dollars a week.

Frederick'! bespital, (or the royal infirmary,) is an elegant building, and has a ipacious area, with pleasant walks for the patients. Many of the poor citizens are admitted and maintained gratis: others, on paying (even Danish marks (a mark nine-pence) a week, or if they have separate rooms, fourteen. Thirty soldiers may also be admitted, who, if single, arc obliged to give up their whole pay to the hospital, and if married, half. The patients wear the clothes of the house. Each of them has a bed to him-lelf; and their number was one hundred and forty-two men, and eighty-five women. Of these, one hundred and fifty-eight were under the care of the physician, and sixty-nine under the surgeon. Here, a proper separation is made between these two forts of patients. The wards are not crowded; and it is the custom to white-wash them once every year. If this were tariverJaUj pra&iled in their hospitals and prisons,

it would have a very beneficial effect.—The Diet table which was hung up in the wards was as follows.

FULL

Dikkei at Owe.

SaaJay. Soap with forced meat balls; veal cadets; lamb or beef steaks; pastry or padding. Bread anfbeer.

If. B. Bread amd beer or ale every day.

Monday. Bouillon-soap with pearl barley;

veal or lamb fricafee.

TttfJdtj. Broth with toasted wheaten bread and meat; ££h roafied or boiled.

Wcdmtfdmy. Booillcn-soap with rice; boiled veal* lamb or beef, with spinach, four kroat, cauliflower or carrots.

Thrrfdmj. Soap with bread damplins, or green cole; broiled meat.

Friday. Soup with greens, eggs and toasted bread; beef and horse*ndl(b.

Saturday. Rice milk; fish or steaks.

C O M M O

DivrEt of EUww.

Saaditf. Soap, three pints, with beef foot

oances, or lamb five oaoces with nee; rve bread half a poand;

beer 2 pint.

Bread aaJ bur cr ale every day.

DIET.

Somt at Severn.

Hasty pudding with batter; bread and butter with eggs; beer.

1V.B. Bread mod batter and beer every night. Water-gruel with raisins, and toasted bread.

Hasty padding with batter.

Soap of bread and beer.

Wine foop, with rice or Scotch barley.

As on Monday.

Cherry-(bap with toasted bread.

N DIET.

Seprct at Six.

Thick barley boiled in water with grits, a pint, and batter, quarter of an ounce; rye bread half a poand, with batter half an ounce; beer a pint.

Bread and baiter and beer every night.

Monday.

Sect. IV.

DENMARK.

*r

Monday* Soap and meat, with Scotch barley.

Tuesday. Soup and meat, with oat grits.

Wednesday. Soup and meat, with rice.

Thursday. Broth, with toasted bread and meat. Friday. As on Monday.

Saturday. As on Tuesday.

Water-gruel, with wheaten bread, vinegar and sugar; or cherry soup with wheaten bread and fagar.

Thick boiled barley with butter.

Water-gruel with wheaten bread, vinegar and fogar.

As on Tuesday.

Barley-soup with vinegar and fogar.

Rye flour and water hasty pudding, or, as on Tuesday.

Each patient has for break fa ft two biscuits and a pint of milk; and weekly one oance of congou tea, and half a pound of white fagar.—The fonp (halt be well supplied with vegetables according to the season.

For such patients as are confined m particular diet, die physician or surgeon, inltead of the nfual food, erden, veal-soup, cherry-fonp, barley-soup, sorrel, spinnach, asparagus, codlins, french plnms, and wheaten bread..—Broth and water-grnel is always ready for ule.

Frederick’s Hospital, ifl July, 1774.

Brain. Johamffen. Berger. Hofinan. Rotiboll. Homings. Liunge. Thulftrup.

The Marine Hospital contained one hundred and fifty-seven patients, separated from one another according to their different disorders. Their diet and regimen are the fame as in Frederick's hospital. Their beds have no curtains; and in fine weather are carried out to be beat and aired. The wards are spacious, and care is taken to keep them cleanly, by waihing them every week.

In the Hospital for the education of poor children, there were two hundred and twenty-five boys; almost all of whom had cutaneous disorders and sickly countenances. I found no proper management here, and the rooms were close and dirty. When the director shewed me the sick rooms, I told him, all the rooms were sick rooms.

In St. John's Hospital, which is the pell-house, and Hands half a mile from the city, there were about a hundred men and two hundred women. In each of two of the wards there were ten or twelve small rooms for the insane. Though the weather was warm, the windows were shut; a circumstance peculiarly bad for that fort of patients. The chaplain, who resides here in a neat house, favoured me with-his company through some of the wards. The windows, though opposite to one another, were of little use except for light. The house was clean; the floors sanded: and the beds neat.—This was formerly the military hospital which is now removed to Christian's Plegchuus, a spacious building in the city; one of the quadrangles is the great poor-house just described. It is a well regulated establishment. The regulations were drawn up by Major de Pflug, who published them in 1773, with the plans of the building: for which scarce publication I am obliged to Mr. frefehow, chaplain to the garrison.*

At Copenhagen in the beginning of July 1781, I bought four forts of triad; of the fintft I had 7 ounces for a Danish stiver (equal to 1 penny English); of the fiend fort, 10 ounces; of the third fort, 20 ounces; of the fturtb, exactly two pounds.

M

Copen-

hagen.

Marine

Hospital

Orphan-

house.

St. John’* Hospital.

SWEDEN.

83

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Stock-

holm.

SWEDEN.

Ik travelling through the country in Sweden, I observed the houses to be much cleaner than those in Denmark; and this led me to hope I should find the fame difference in the prisons; especially as I was told they were visited every Saturday by an officer from the chancery. But I was disappointed, for I found them as dirty and offensive as those in Denmark. Some of the prisons at Stockholm are near the water; the city, which Hands on seven islands, being well adapted for that situation. When I attended at the trials in the court of justice in July, the want of fresh air, in consequence of the windows being (hut, affected me so much as to make me ill a considerable time afterwards.

There are three prisons at Stockholm; one in the northern suburbs, one in the Jenthem, and the other in the city itself. Criminals while confined in these prisons, are not in irons. If the offence be capital, they are after condemnation sent to the great prison (called Smed-garden); from whence they may appeal to parliament, which mull confirm the sentence before it can be executed.

The general mode of execution is by the axe. Women are beheaded on a scaffold, which is afterwards set on fire at the four comers, and consumed with the body. The present King has humanely abolished all torture, and ordered a dark cellar applied to this purpose in the great prison, to be bricked up.

I was present four or five hours in one of the courts of justice, when many civil and criminal causes were tried. The burgomaster (with his gold chain) was leated at one end of a table, and on each fide four or five other magistrates. The manner of swearing a witness was by requiring him to put two fingers on a Bible, and to pronounce the words of the oath deliberately after the burgomaster.—In some causes only one witness was sworn; in others, several; and while one was under examination, the rest were not allowed to be present, except in trials for petty offences, when no oath was administered.—In civil causes, both plaintiffs and defendants presented memorials, and some were allowed counsel. — In a prosecution of a man for bearing his wife, I observed that one of the senior magistrates pleaded the wife’s cause, and then withdrew with the parties concerned in the prosecution. The judge, having consulted a book of laws, called them in again; and after hearing the law read and the sentence pronounced, they bowed and departed at

The gaoler told me, that agreeably to the king’s order, the door-way had been bricked up. On r.y iahiciag to fee the wall th2t 1 might be allured of the fall, I found the cellar Hill open.

different

Sect. IV.

SWEDEN.

8J

different doors. I observed in fitly disputes, a reconciliation so hearty sometimes taking place, that the contending parties lhook hands, and went off together shedding tears of joy.

In the prison called Norr Kiamnirs Ratt for the northern suburbs, (which are four times as large as the city itself) there are two justice-rooms and fix other rooms.

It had in it only three prisoners. The allowance, fix stivers (-id.) per day.

In the prison for the Joutbeni distriA Soder Ktamnars Rail, there were also fix rooms; four of which, having their windows nailed up, were very dark, dirty and offensive. Here were five prisoners almost ltifled, in consequence of receiving no air except through a small aperture in the door of each room. The other two rooms were light and airy, and are sometimes used as an infirmary.—The gaoler here, as in the other prisons, fells liquors. His room, like those I have too often seen in my own country, was full of idle people who were drinking.

In the prison for the city, called Stads Kiamnirs Ratt, the rooms were very dirty, and the windows of all, except one, were shut. The countenances of the prisoners befpokc neglect and oppression. Here were two rooms appropriated to criminals condemned for a certain term, to bread and water. In one of these rooms there were two persons, who seemed almost starved, being allowed only fix stivers worth of bread, (ad.) per day, and that fold them by an unfeeling gaoler.* Here is no chapel; nor are the prisoners ever allowed to leave their noxious cells. I observed coffins are kept ready for the dead.

The Smed-garden (to which criminals are sent after condemnation) is a brick building in an airy situation. It has a court enclosed with high planks, or palisades. Tn one of the rooms on one fide of this court, I saw two barrack-beds and three men, one of them loaded with irons. Their allowance is fix stivers per day, with which they may purchase what they please. Two stiver worth of bread weighed exactly twelve ounces.

On the other fide of the court is the chapel, and the apartments of the women, where I saw five prisoners at needle-work, but none in irons; and, I was informed, the women are never put into irons. There is a bed in the chapel; where the convict rcils till his execution, which is sometimes three weeks: two days before this, his irons are taken off.

The men are allowed to walk in the court from eight to nine, and from four to five -. the women are allowed the fame privilege, but at different times.

The Prison for debtors is in the city, and consists of two rooms on the first floor and two over them. Here were sixteen men, and one woman. The rooms being

Nor r

Ki A M k a R Ratt.

Soder

Riamnars

Ratt.

STA!>S KiAMKARS Ratt.

$ m r o -CARDEN.

Debtors

Prison.

Seeing these miserable objects thankful for a small donation of bread, I said to the gaoler, a sentence for twenty-eight days mull be very severe.” He replied, ' it is good for their health.” I can make a good conjecture of the Hate of a prison, from the countenances of the prisoners: complacency and submission appear under kind treatment, even though the apartments be bad, and the allowance scanty.

M 2

all

8+

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Stock- all open, they associate with one another as they please.* The allowance to each is

Hotu. Qx Rivets a day paid by their creditors: on default of payment they are released.

This prison being in a dole part of the city, is one of the most unhealthy. But,

I was informed, it is to be removed to a more airy lituation in the Joutbem suburbs. Stik- The Spin or Rajp-house has an inscription over the door, Stockholm* Stad Spilt house. ecb Ra/p but, In. 17 jo. It Rands on a declivity, at the extremity of the suburbs, and near a lake. The number of prisoners was a hundred and eighty; twenty or twenty-five of whom I saw in a room, Ibrting, carding, or spinning wool: every prisoner is obliged to spin two pounds and a half (equal to about three thousand ells) of yarn in a day: all that is done by any prisoners more than this, they

are paid for, at the rate of two lHvers a pound; and, as a farther reward, they

become entitled to an abridgment of their term of confinement, in proportion to their diligence.

The women’s apartments were clean; but the countenances of the men and boys were sickly, and their rooms dirty and offensive. The men were not separated from the boys as they should have been, nor the women from the girls.

The rooms employed as an infirmary were clean, and strewed with the young (hoots of the spruce fir: it had in it five lick women, and five or six convalescents.

On inquiry, I found the Jenny was a prevailing diiorder here, especially in August; which, I doubt not, is owing to dole confinement, to the want of deanlinels, and to the use of salt-fish and other salt provisions. Some precautions are used against this diiorder, for the prisoners at their admission are examined by the lurgeons; after which they are required to bathe themselves, and to continue this as a practice twice a month.

They attend prayers in the hall of the Spin-house every day; in summer, at fix in the morning and seven in the evening; and in winter, at eight and four.

A person in the office of an mfpc8cr has a convenient house here, with a salary of £50 per Jnnum, which is large for this country, and four times more than the salary of the keeper. I am persuaded of the impropriety of trolling such establishments to the care of interested men. Neither the condition of the wards, nor the appearance of the prisoners, did this inspector any credit.f Ko=pital. J visited some charitable institutions in this city; I will just mention the Hojipital for the sick. There were in it thirty-two patients. In the largest of the rooms there were only (even beds: a distinct bed was allotted to each patient, and all was clean and neat. Two of the rooms were appropriated to venereal patients.

- One advantage which ariics from the Jeferotica of prisoners is, that it prevents taking garnish: this* though a constant practice here, is not common in foreign prisons.

r We aaS look for humanity, care and attention, only in those houses where there are not resident 'n'fiSsrs with iaree falcrits, as in Holland, Hamburg, Switzerland, &c.

The

Sect. IV.

RUSSIA.

«S

The floors, as in the other hospitals and in raoft of the private houses, were strewed Stock-with the young shoots either of the spruce fir or juniper tree: having asked the reason, one of the surgeons told me, “ it was done to prevent infeAion.” I attended Mr. Akren, the principal surgeon, through the wards, and saw him dress the patients.

Three or four pupils a flitted, and four other attendants; one of whom was a woman carrying a bason of water.*

In Russia the peasants and servants are bondmen or (laves, and their lords (or Russia.. matters) may inflidl on them any corporal punishment, or banish them to Siberia, on giving notice of their offence to the police. But they are not permitted to put them to death. Should they, however, die by the severity of their punishment, the penalty of the law is ealily evaded. Inttances, notwithstanding, of great attachment of peasants to their lords, in consequence of good treatment, are not uncommon.

A gentleman was lhewn me at Petersburg, whose peasants, hearing of his intention to fell his estate, brought him all the money they had saved, and gave it him, upon condition that he should keep his land, and (till continue to be their matter.

Debtors in this country are often employed as slaves by government, and allowed twelve roubles f yearly wages, which goes towards discharging the debt.J In some cases of private debts, if any person will give sufficient security to pay twelve roubles a year as long as the slave lives, or till the debt is paid off; as also to produce the Have when he is demanded $ such person may take him out of confinement: but if he fails to produce him when demanded, is liable to pay the whole debt immediately.

There are no regular gaolers appointed in Russia, but all the prisons are guarded by the military. Little or no attention is paid to the reformation of prisoners.

RUSSIA.

The several sorts of bread in Stockholm were exactly according to the affix*.

t One hundred cofcckt is a rouble, and a rouble abont four /hillings.

X An impracticable feheme has been advanced by a late author to oblige debtors in England to *ork off their debts by their own labour. The Marquis Btccario, in his former editions of his EJfay on C.rimtt'and Punishments, had proposed some such feheme; but in the third edition he acknowledged his mistake, and confessed that he had injured the rights of humanity, and was aftiamed that he had adopted so inconsiderate an opinion.

In

36

FOREIGN PRISONS.

s- h »- In the instructions for a new Code of laws by the present Einprefs, however, a very just and humane distinction is made between prisoners of different daffes. “ One ought “ not to confine in the lame place, l. an accused person, against whom there are “ only appearances, 2. a convict, j. a criminal who is condemned to prison as a “ punishment. The accused person is only detained; the two others are imprisoned:

“ but with respect to the former of them, the prison is only a part of punishment;

“ with respect to the latter, it is the punishment itself. ”

There is no capital punishment for any crime but trealon: but the common punishment of the knoot is often dreaded more than death, and sometimes a criminal has endeavoured to bribe the executioner to kill him. This punishment seldom caules immediate death, but death is often the consequence of it.

Piters- The governor of the police at Petersburg was so kind as to fix a time for shewing

irtc' me all the instruments commonly u'fed for punishment—the axe and block—the

machine (now out of use) for breaking the arms and legs—the instrument for flitting or lacerating the noftrils—and that for marking criminals, (which is done by punctuation, and then rubbing a black powder on the wounds)—the knoot whip— ar.d another called the cat, which conlifts of a number of thongs from two to ten. F. ncct. The Knoot whip, is fixed to a wooden handle a foot long, and conlifts of several thongs about two feet in length twilled together, to the end of which is fattened a single tough thong of a foot and half, tapering towards a point, and capable of being changed by the executioner, when too much softened by the blood of the criminal.

August 10, 1781, I law two criminals, a man and a woman, suffer the punishment of the knoot. They were conducted from prison by about fifteen hussars and ten Soldiers. When they arrived at the place of punishment, the hussars formed theni-frives into a ring round the whipping-poll, the drum beat a minute or two, and then some prayers were repeated, the populace taking off their hats. The woman was taken first; and after being roughly stript to the waist, her hands and feet were bound with cords to a poll made for the purpose, a man Handing before the poll to keep the cords tight. A servant attended the executioner, and both were stout men. The servant first marked his ground, and ftmek the woman five times on the back. Every stroke seemed to penetrate deep into her flesh. But his mailer thinking him too gentle, pulhed him aside, took his place, and gave all the remaining strokes himself, which were evidently more severe. The woman received twenty-five, and the man sixty: I pressed through the hussars, and counted the number as they were chalked on a board. Both seemed but jult alive, especially the man, who yet had strength enough to receive a small donation with some signs of gracitude. They were conducted back to prison in a little waggon. I saw the woman in a very weak condition some days after, but could not find the man any more.

rnJlntSicnt iSc. Art. CLXX1.

In

Sect. IV.

RUSSIA.

«7

In the Fartrefs there are many vaulted rooms, (ome of which are now used for the confinement of deserters, and criminals of various forts, who work on the fortifications. Some were glad of the privilege of being employed in the governor’s garden, for the fake of the flour which he gave them for their labour. Others, with logs to their legs, were drawing wood out of the Neva. Thirty-five were crowded into one of the rooms, which therefore was excessively hot, having only two small apertures (ten inches by nine) for the admission of air. In another part of this building, seventy-five (laves with logs fattened to both their legs, were lodged in four rooms, which were (till more close and offensive. In a few rooms (used as barracks) some officers were confined. Every room was furnished with an oven or (tove, and most of them with barrack-beds.

In the Police prison there were in one room nine women, and in two other rooms forty-four men. In two small and low arched cellars (very hot and offensive)

I saw fifteen men, most of them in irons. In a room called the infirmary, detached from the rest of the prison, there were seven persons tick. All the prisoners subsist on voluntary contributions, collected in boxes before their grates, and at church. This is all the advantage they derive from the church near the prison, for they are never permitted to enter it, or to go out of their rooms; except on particular occasions with guards of soldiers.

In the New government prison behind the courts of justice, there are barracks for the guard near the rooms of confinement. The number of prisoners was sixty-eight, including two confined for debt, and twenty-seven male and female vagrants and petty offenders, all crowded together into one room.

In the suburbs is a Prison, confiding of several timber houses, surrounded with high palisades. In one house I saw twenty-five prisoners, in another five Or fix, all with irons on both legs. Some were out at work, and the whole number was near eighty. Many were boys of twelve or fifteen years of age. In the middle there was a kitchen, in which was an oven and many loaves of bread for the prisoners, like that for the soldiers. They seemed under close confinement, though there is a large court in which they might be allowed to walk with safety.

The Prison for Debtors consists of four vaulted rooms communicating with one another, and furnished with stoves and barrack-beds. The prisoners are never permitted to go out of their rooms. They subsist by alms received from passengers in little boxes placed before the windows; but government supplies them with wood for fuel. One told me, he had been confined for five years, for a debt of fifteen roubles; and another, four years for twenty-five roubles.

A Spin-house (or house of correction) is building in this city, situated near the river. It is an elegant, though plain building, with fifty-seven windows in front, and two galleries at the back-front supported by pillars. There is an ascent of a few steps to the first floor; all the staircases are stone (five feet wide); the rooms

are

Peters*

BORG

Fortress.

Prisons*

Debtors

Prison.

Spi n-house.

88

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Pet ei$“

BURC.

Military

Hospital.

Mabise

Hospital.

House

OF

Edvca-

TiCS.

are about thirty-three feet by twenty-three; the windows fix feet from the floor; the cielings are lofty, in the middle of which are apertures fourteen inches square; and the roof consists of thin iron flute.

I visited several hospitals in this city with pleasure, the rooms, even of the insane, being as clean as those in Holland: but I shall mention only two or three.

The hospital for fillers, and the marine hospital, form a great quadrangle, built chiefly of brick, in a morass, near the Neva. The Military hospital conGfts of twenty -eight spacious rooms, besides two or three anatomical rooms in which lectures are read. There is a chapel in the centre, but it is in a ruinous date, having been left unfiniflicd, because the builder had hanged himself in it.—At a little distance in a large area or field enclosed with wooden palisades, there are fourteen'or fifteen houses constructed of wood, about eighty feet by twenty-one; in each of which there are forty or forty-five beds or cradles, admitting one patient only. The centre house has fourteen small rooms opening into a dose passage, and very offensive.

The Admiralty or Marine Hospital has two floors. The rooms open into a gallery under arcades, and are clean and airy, having windows opposite to one another, and on one fide looking towards the Neva. Four of these rooms were occupied, and in one of them there were forty beds, each admitting Only one patient.

At the back of this hospital, in an area or garden enclosed by palisades, is a row of seven summer rooms for convalescents, each a separate building, seventy feet by twenty-six. They were clean and sweet, and strewed with the young (hoots of the spruce fir. In the centre building the re are rooms for warming water for bathing; as there were also in the military hospital. Bathing is the constant practice of the Ruffians.

This provision of summer rooms is a wife expedient peculiar to Russia, and deserves the highest commendation. By the constant succession of patients, the walls of other hospitals are contaminated; but in Russia, by lodging patients in these summer rooms, the hospitals are left to be freshened and purified.

On a rising ground at a little distance from Petersburg, and on the south fide of the river Neva, there is a stately pile of buildings, originally designed for a convent, but ever since 1764 converted by the Empress Catherine the Second, into a public establiftunent for educating the female nobility of Russia, and a limited number of the children of commoners. The deeping rooms and dining-halls in these buildings are remaikably lofty and airy, having large galleries round them; and adjoining to the buildings there are spacious gardens and lawns, which extend to the banks of the river.—The number of the children of nobility on this establishment is two hundred; and the number of the children of commoners, or peasants was, till 1770, limited to two hundred and forty: but since this year it has been increased to two hundred and eighty, by a fund provided by the munificence of general De Bttjkoi, the enlightened and liberal head and director- general of this, and all the other institutions of the fame kind established by her imperial majesty.

The

Sect. IV.

RUSSIA.

The principal regulations for conducing this institution are the following. Pete*»-

The children are admitted between five and six years of age, and continued on the establishment twelve years. They are divided into dalles according to their ages, 0F four of nobles with fifty in each class, and four of commoners with seventy in each dafs. Educ»-

—In every third year on the 21ft of April, (the birth-day of the Empress), fifty TION'

children of the nobility, and seventy of commoners are taken in, to replace the fame numbers discharged.

Before they rife every morning, the windows of the rooms are thrown open to purify them with fresh air.

The first dafs (dressed in brown, and consisting of children of the youngest ages,) rife at seven in winter, and at fix in summer.—After being washed and attending prayers, they are taken into the garden where they breakfast, and play about in the coldest weather till nine. During their first year, each of them is allowed for breakfast, a small loaf of white bread, and a glass of milk and water; but after their first year, they are allowed no other drink than water.—At nine they are called back to the house, and from this hour to eleven are employed in learning the French and Ruffian languages, and in knitting, sewing, &c. but care is taken to render all the instruction they receive agreeable, nothing being taught in this establishment by compulsion.—Twice in the week they receive lefibns in dancing; and this is a part of education common to all the daffies, and never discontinued, because reckoned conducive to health.—After eleven they return to their play in the garden, where they continue till noon, at which time they are called to dinner, which consists of soup, vegetables, &c. For fomc months at first they are allowed meat; but they are gradually weaned from it, till at last, while in this and the next class, it comes to be entirely withheld from them except in soups, in order to cure them of fomc cutaneous distempers to which at this age they are subject, and al(b to prepare them for passing with less danger through the hooping-cough, mealies and small-pox.—After dinner they return to the garden, and at four, have a repast similar to that in the morning, viz. a loaf of bread and a glass of water. Here they continue to divert themselves till at seven they are called to supper, which consists in winter of dried fruit, milk and grain; and in summer of preparations of milk, and some provisions from the garden.—It may be proper to add, that they read and write Handing, and are not allowed to fit down, except to needle-work.—In consequence of this management, and of living lo much in the air, and being used to exercise, and deanliness and a Ample diet, they are leldom known to take cold; and become capable of bearing the ievereft weather of the climate without receiving any harm, their clothing being only a lhort wadded cloak, whilst others are loaded with furs.

TheJeconi class (dressed in blue) enter it about eight years of age, and are obliged to apply more closely to writing, drawing, dancing, &c.

N

The

9®

FOREIGN PRISONS.

trtG

Hevn

or

Edvci-

TIOS.

C'aox-

STADT.

The third class (dressed in grey) enter it at eleven or twelve years of age. They rife at five, in the summer, and fix in winter; but are called to the house (after breakfasting in the garden,) an hour sooner than the children in the first and second clafies j because more time is wanted for instrufting and improving the m. They are now taught (besides drawing, dancing, turning,* needle-work, &c.) vocal and-inlhumental mufie. They are allowed a ball and concert every week; and a taste for books is inspired, determined by putting them upon copying and reciting select passages from the best authors.

The fourth dais (dressed in white) enter it at fourteen or fifteen years of age. They are taught tambour-work, house-keeping, the management of a family, &c. and initiated into history, geography and natural philosophy. In order to acquire a just elocution, and to exercise themselves in politeneis, and vocal and instrumental mufie, they occasionally give balls and little operas to company from Petersburg.

The children of the nobility arc distinguished from the children of commoners, only by wearing a finer camlet of the colours appropriated to the different dalles $ and as far as diet, exercise, regimen, &c. arc concerned, the method of managing them is the fames but the instruction given the latter, is confined to needle-work, reading, house-keeping and such other occupations and improvements as are suitable to the humbler walks of life, for which they are intended.

' The children on this foundation enjoy, as might be expected, an uncommon degree of health.—Of fifty-one children of nobility admitted in 1764, and fifty admitted in 1767, and fifty-two in 1770, none had died in 1781 j and of fifty admitted at different times, by the particular order of the Empress, between 1764 and 1780, only two had died in 1781.—Of sixty children also of tommoturs admitted in 1767, and seventy in 1770, only seven had died in 1781. But of sixty admitted in 1764, thirteen had died; in consequence, it is supposed, of having been lodged in a part of the buildings which had been just cre&ed, and therefore was not sufficiently dry.

This account I owe to the obliging information of Dr. Guthrie, physician to a military cadet corps of nobles, established at Petersburg by the Empress, and supposed the grandest institution of the kind in the world.

At Cxonstadt (or Cxowhstade) the principal station for shipping, the slaves were lodged in several rooms enclosed by palisades, and guarded by an officer with a hundred soldiers, who attend them while at work. In the rooms, there were only two, who were sick: the rest were removing the ballast Bung out of the ships. They had healthy countenances, and were robust and strong, though their diet seemed Scanty.—The following is their allowance from government. To each for diet.

I was obliged to die ladies for a very cwrim price of their ward in ivory, which was presented to me 00 my rifit to thi* liofife.

seventy-

Sect. IV.

RUSSIA.

9'

seventy-two pounds and a half (about 65 English pounds) of rye flour,* seven pounds and a half of barley or buck-wheat, and two pounds of salt, every month.—For clothing, a Sheep-(kin peltj/i} coarse cloth coat, waistcoat and breeches % woollen hat and fur cap, and a pair of drawers every two years; and every year, sixteen arjhins (about i2^ yards) of coarse linen for shirts and thin drawers; three pair of (lockings, three pair of shoes, two pair of fur gloves, and a pair of (heep-lkin cangees. Fuel also is allowed by government.j-

The number of (laves, malefactors and debtors is in general about two hundred, but in November 1781, their number was only one hundred and fifty-one, viz. (laves indebted to government and malefactors, thirty-four; debtors, and peasants. sent by their lords for crimes and misdemeanors on their estates, one hundred and seventeen.—I will say nothing of the prison, because I saw the ground marked out for a new one, which is to be erected under the superintendence of our attentive and judicious countryman Admiral Greig.

In the Hospital at Cronstadt, built by Peter the Great, and intended by him for a palace, there were many spacious rooms, all perfectly clean, with eight or ten beds in every room, each bed admitting one patient only. Two hundred and seventeen of the patients were sailors; and on their beds were marked the names of the ships to which they belonged. Books were hung up at the doors of the rooms, containing an account of the numbers of the beds, the prescriptions, diet, &c.

At a little distance from this building, there are l'even rooms for convalescents and scorbutic patients, seventy-two feet in length and twenty-three in breadth. Four of them were occupied, one of which had in it fifty-five beds, and the rest almost as many. The kitchen and bake-house were separate buildings; and the bread appeared to be wholesome and good. There was here also a room for the hot, or vapour baths, which are common in Russia, and which undoubtedly conduce greatly to the health, as well as the cleanliness of the inhabitants, j;

August 21, 1781, the number of patients in this hospital was five hundred and fifteen. Those attended by surgeons were separated from the rest, and the appearance of all of them shewed plain proofs of the care and attention paid them. An officer visits the hospital every day, and makes a report to the admiral.

The French prisoners in England have been desirous of having their allowance in flour, that they might make their own bread, as the Ruffian flare: do, who also, both here and at the fortress, make for themselves a fermented liquor called juai, two barrels of which I saw in the rooms.

+ The expence for every Have is twelve renilei a year; namely, for diet, eight reutlei and 6fty-two copech; for clothes, three nutlet and 'forty-eight eepeeh. 1 owe this account to the kindness of Admiral Greig.

t See Philefophicai TrartfatlieHi, Vol. LXVI1J. 1778.

N 2

Cnorr-

STADT.

Hospital.

At

9^

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Wrscavsi

Wolot-

scdoc.

Tm.

Moscow

Prisok.

At Wyschnzi Wolotschok the prison is in the suburbs, constructed of wood, and enclosed with palisades of thick planks. Here were sixteen prisoners employed on the public works, all but one, in irons; cwo were loaded with irons on their legs, and chained together by the neck.

In the prison at Tvei there were twenty-six prisoners. The rooms were (o offen-five, that a medical gentleman did not choose to look into more than one of them. It is a new prison, but I hope not a model for others, as has been reported. The prisoners in it, and likewise in the prison last mentioned, subsist on charitable contributions.

The great Prison at Moscow, Kalafia OJirog is in the suburbs. In the first room of a brick building the re are four wooden cages, in which were two men chained by the neck to the wall, with irons on their legs. Near this room there were several rooms for the examination and puni foment of criminals.

At the back of this building is a court sixty feet wide, with a guard-house in it and fix rooms for confinement.

The main prison, on the ourfide is two hundred and eighty feet by two hundred and forty-four. It is enclosed with strong pieces of timber sixteen or eighteen feet high. The entrance from the court just mentioned leads into a walk (twenty-four feet wide), on one fide of which there are three other courts, and four on the opposite fide of different dimrnfions. In these courts there are a number of wooden houses coniifting of one, two or three rooms5 every room having barrack-bedftcads or fixities in it, and an iron-lattice door, with another of wood. In two of the courts there are small rooms or chapels, where divine service is read. The whole number of prisoners in September 1781 was seventy-four. There is a distinct court and two rooms appropriated to women, in which were ten, but none in irons. The doors of the houses were open to allow the prisoners to walk in the courts; except the houses in the two upper courts, where, in a building occupied only by himself, I saw a Ruffian gentleman who was always locked up; and whole crime, I was informed, had been cruelly whipping his Haves.

One centinel flood at each corner of this prison, one at the centre of the front, three in the middle walk, and two at the entrance. In the walk there is the well, and a shed or but for the sale of puu,f apples and bread; and on th£ outside of the door many boxes to receive the alms of passengers; the prisoners subsisting chiefly by charitable contributions.^

I am obliged to Mr. DuHafin for a drawing of this pri/cm, and of the botanic magazine. f Qaas; this favourite liquor of the Radians, is a fort of four final! beer, in making which wild mint is oied in ft cad of hops. See Pbihfopbical Traufa3ionst Vol. LX VIII. 177®*

I The prisoners here, who are condemned to the mines in Siberia, three days before their departure go chained through the streets, crying for charity, to support them on their long journey, their allowance being final!.

At

-Tf f:

/. Guanf house

2. Rooms ji'r r-rarttinahott Arc

3. Roonis Jfrrprisoner* during r.ram 7 4- Centre hoses

S.-Entmttcc 6.77tr frnU'

/. J shed

S. The trcff Jgjnt deep

g.Jfcns court SP.ffontcns cnrirf 11 rr*>/*/e

/?. f'hope/s

G-Cftapdfeff

tt.Orrns

lj.Shrircs to sfeep upon

CZZ

, t .» s

Sect. IV.

RUSSIA.

93

At the New government in a large room on the ground-floor, there were sixty-nine prisoners, of whom fourteen were women. They were petty offenders, subsisted on charitable donations, and looked dirty and flckly. In a room up stairs I saw eight criminals with irons round their necks, chained with a heavy chain to a log. In each of the rooms a soldier flood with a drawn sword in his hand.

The Prison for debtors in this city was very dirty. In five rooms I law above a hundred miserable wretches lying on the floors, most of them half naked.— At a little distance from these rooms there were fix criminals in one of the most offensive rooms I ever entered.

The Military prison is situated in the middle of a plain at Butirki, about a mile from this city. It is a Tingle room, into which were crowded one hundred and thirty prisoners, though only twenty-nine feet by twenty-six, and not nine feet high. It is constructed of wood, surrounded with wooden palisades, and furnished with two tier of barrack-bedsteads without beds. The pale sickly countenances of the prisoners bespoke oppression and misery, and prevented the wonder I should have otherwise- felt at finding lo large a number as fifty-five in the ward appropriated to the lick, in the military hospital. A centinel was planted at each corner, and two at the door. On the outside of the palisades there was a well, and two or three buildings or barracks, in one of which were confined nine officers, but they had beds.

At the back of Catherine hospital in the invalids court, in a prison confiding only of one room, there were fifty-two men and seventeen women. The women were employed in weeding in the garden, and the men in emptying a moat at a palace about half a mile from the prison. They had no irons, but were distinguished by a black cross on the back of their clothes. They work from morning till night, except for two hours about noon, and are allowed three copecks worth of bread in a day; but salt is withheld from them by way of punishment.

One of my visits happening to be on a Sunday, I was surprised to find the prisoners all at work; some piling and planking the canal, others cutting the barberry hedges in the palace garden, and the women weeding.

At a Convent about a mile out of the city, there is a room which is used as a prison for petty offenders, in which there were two men and five women. The former were employed in Tawing wood, and the latter were at work in the palace garden. Their drink was water, and their allowance of bread four Ruffian pounds each every day.

Here is a palace unoccupied, which was used as a Lazaretto, in the time of the plague in 1772, consisting of near a hundred rooms round a court; the corridors or passages are about nine feet wide. On going over it, I could not but think it was well adapted for a healthy prison, the court being Ipacious, the situation near the river, and the rooms, of a proper size.

Moscow.

Debtors

Prison.

Militart

Prison.

Prisons.

Lazaret to.

The

FOREIGN PRISONS.

y4

MiLITAtT

HcMMTAi.

Botanic

MaCazisz.

The Military bcjpital, founded by Peter the Great, is finely situated on a riling ground near a river. On the ground-floor there are four lofty and spacious rooms , in two of which there were eighty-eight patients, the other two were repairing. Over these rooms there are two anatomical rooms, and a third room in which lectures are read four times in a week.—Adjoining is a wooden building for lunatics, consisting of twelve rooms (fifteen feet by twelve and a half) and a back room to each for a keeper. There are also several houses for the director, physician, surgeons, apothecary, See. At a little greater distance, but on a more elevated spot, there is a large quadrangular building, in which were upwards of four hundred patients, each room containing about thirty beds. In one part of this building the re were fifty-five patients from the military prison.—At my first visit the wards were dirty and offensive j but at a subsequent visit the physician favoured me with his company, and I found them much cleaner. I flung open some of the windows in one large ward, and this purified it more than all the (hoots of the spruce fir with which the rooms were ftrcwcd.*

In the garden is a building constructed of wood, for drying herbs, plants, &c. many of which grow there. It is the completed house for the purpose I ever law (eighty-one feet by twenty-eight). A variety of plants were drying on the ground-floor, and six or seven men were employed in cleaning them, and in cutting roots. The first floor was divided into two rooms, in which were many double cases, or drawers, (the upper, half as large as the under ones) painted green, with the names of the roots and herbs they contained. The room over these, was full of herbs drying on poles; and in a balcony over the portico (fix feet and a half wide) herbs, roots, and feeds are dried. All the windows or Quitters in the house, and the lids of the cases, were open. Those herbs which were dry, were as green as when they were first gathered.

On conversing with the physician, concerning the treatment of the sick when the plague was at Moscow in 177:, he raid, “ it was nearly the lame with oars in the gaol-fever, wist, bark and good broths, with as much air as possible.” The late Sir Job* Pringle, President of the Royal Society, in his difearfe at the Anniversary meeting, 30th November 1776, informs ns at pagt 16, that “ the late. '* Dr.bhotnfij, F.R.S. who had lived long in Raffia, and had been Jrcbiattr under two focceffive “ sovereigns—happening to be at Moscow when he pernfed the Obfmsations on the Jail-fever—was indneed to compare what he read in that treatise with what he Ihonld fee in the several prisons of that “ large city: bnt to his fnrprize, after vifidng them all, and finding them fall of malefa&ors (for ‘ the late empress then fullered none—to be pat to death) he could discover no fever among them, “ nor leant that any acute difiemper pec altar to jails had ever been known there.—Upon his return “ to St. Petersburg, he made the lame inquiry there, and with the fame refnlt. ”

In this ancient capital cf Raffia, I found no traces of any such prisons or dungeons as were common formerly in the cables of England, and in several foreign countries (fee Barn's Jnftiee, tender gaol and gaoler, Sere. e£s. 1780, we/. II. f. 345.) That cruel mode of confinement in many of onr prisons, has been, and bill is a principal canfe of the gaol-fever: no symptoms of which fever did I fee in Mofccra-, or in any part of Raffia. '

Paulowjii

Sect. IV.

RUSSIA.

95

Pauhrwjki hospital is situated on an airy spot about a mile from the city. The Panlowski entrance is by a flight of seven steps. It is built of wood, and only one story high, Hospital. consisting of seven rooms: the beds were linen, and not crowded, and all clean and neat.—Here is a chapel; and very near, flood a building for venereal patients; but a more convenient building for such patients is just finished, containing fix airy and spacious rooms hung with white painted linen. The apothecary lives in this hospital; and the director and two surgeons in neat houses in the spacious court belonging to it, adjoining to which there is a large garden.

Catherine hospital consists of several houses of one story; which being built round an Cathi-elegant court, and painted white, have a pleasing effect. The ascent is three feet jj *p'“ and a half.* There are in these buildings twelve rooms hung with paper and clean, with a number of beds not exceeding seven or eight in each room. A separate bed is allotted to efery patient.—Thermometers are kept in the rooms of this and other hospitals, but the heat of the air was many degrees above that which the surgeon said was the proper temperature (to degrees of Reaumur’% scale), all the windows being Ihut. There are small ventilators in the windows; but they can be of little use unless the windows are daily opened.—I was pleased to fee in every room of these hospitals a tin or pewter cijlent, over a copper bason, with towels; and wished there were the fame attention to cleanliness in all our hospitals.—At the front of this hospital are two pumps, by which, in case of fire, water may be easily raised to the top of the buildings.

Here were several rooms with beds for inoculated patients; but none of them had been occupied for feme time. Here were also separate buildings for venereal patients. Adjoining, is another court in which there are several rooms, tolerably clean, for old military invalids. Their number was about eighty, and feme of them had served as soldiers under Peter the Great.

I repeatedly visited the great Foundling hospital in this city at the particular desire of the good general De Betjkoi; but having given a description of the convent at St. Petersburg, which may be thought somewhat of a digression from my subject,

I refer my readers to Mr. Coxe’s pamphlet for an account of this hospital.j-

The foundation of this and Pauloavfil hospital being stone, and derated considerably above the level of the ground, I observed several apertures (twdve inches by seven) in the Hone work, for caofing a circulation of air under the floors. If apertures were also made in the floors, they would be conducive to the health of the patients by freshening and airing the rooms.

t The public is much obliged to Mr. Carr, for the account he has given of his examination of the prisons and hospitals in his tour through the northern parts of Europe, and for the many valuable remarks which he has made, in a pamphlet entitled, Aeetnssa of the Prisons and Hospitals in Raffia,

Sweden, and Denmark. Printed for T. Cadoll. 1781.

The tread at Petersburg and Moscow was good. In August 1781 at Peterlbarg, fine white bread,

11b. 10 02. coll eight copecks; second fort, ilb. 1402. five copecks; third fort, lib. 802. two copecks.

—In September 1781 at Moscow, the fine white, 12 02. coli three copecks; second fort, 1 lb. 5 02. three copecks; a coarse fort, 3 lb. 10 02. two copecks, or one penny English.

POLAND.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

9*

Warsaw

f 1I50KS.

Z V C 7 H -nr'.

Ilorp jtal-

POLAND.

In Warsaw, at the Town-house, in September 1781, there were twenty-six men and eight women, crowded into three rooms on the ground-floor for confining debtors; the reason of which was, that the prison was repairing. Down several steps were eight new dungeons for criminals, four on each fide a passage only fix feet wide. There was no gaoler, the prison being guarded by soldiers.

At the prison near the palace, in two rooms there were seven prisoners, five of them in irons. Allowance a good grofcbe a day, which is a little more than three halfpence.

The entrance to another prison was through a guard-room full of soldiers. In one room (twenty feet by ten) were twenty-six miserable objects, iome lick on the dirt floor. In another room, not so bad, there were four.

In the prison in the new city there were a few women confined for debt, and a man and woman for theft: their allowance one good grofche a day.

A date on the front of a prison near the Vistula informed me it was rebuilt in 1769. There were eighty-one prisoners in it, whose beds were mattresses Huffed with draw. Moil of them were employed in (awing wood and other occupations in the streets of the city for the inhabitants, who get their labour at one third less than the expence of other labourers; the public being at the same time eased of part of the expence of supporting the m.

In the suburbs is the Zugtb-bus, or spin-house, improperly so called, many of the miserable wretches seeming to have nothing to do. Some, however, were employed; and their allowance for working from fix in the morning to seven at night, with two hours rest at noon, was two grolche (3-Jd.) each per day, which went to the keeper for fading, or rather (as appeared by their looks) for fiarving the m. The lick were lying on floors of dirt, without medical or any other assistance. This gave me so unfavourable an opinion of the police of this country, that I could feel no inclination to visit the prisons in the provinces, or, (according to my constant praHice in 'other places) to revisit those in the capital.

The Great hospital (or Enfant Jefnt) has this inscription over the gate, Regifatu-lorum immertali et invifibilifoli Deo, Honor et Gloria. There were in this hospital near eight hundred grown persons and children of different ages. The rooms were all clean, and great attention seemed to be paid to the lick by the good Jifters, according to their usual practice.. Mod of the children were foundlings. Those who bring the m

put

Sect. IV.

S

I L E S I A.

97

put them into a cradle hung at the outside of one of the rooms, ringing at the Warsaw fame time a bell, in consequence of which notice, persons attending within, turn Homms. the cradle on an axis into the house, where the children are immediately taken care of As they grow up they are made to work in different ways suitable to their ages and sexes. I saw a hundred and thirty girls, all neat, working at their needles, and Tinging at the same time a hymn. At both my visits I found an attentive and affectionate Juperior in the wards: the countenances of the numerous inhabitants shewed their love and respect to’ him.

The Convent in this city belonging to the Fratres misericordia I found uncleanly; and it is the only instance of the kind to which I have been witneis in this fraternity.

In a second visit, the wards were fumigated with juniper berries on burning coals.

The Convent of St. Roque also I found close, crowded and offensive, the windows being kept (hut.

In the Hospital of St. Martin there were many sick, of both sexes.

In the Hospital of St. Lazarus appropriated to venereal patients, there were sixty-one miserable objects, in close offensive rooms. It is badly situated, and in all respects one of the worst hospitals I ever saw.

SILESIA.

In October 1781 I visited the City-prison at Brejlau, built, as the date on the front Breslau informed me, in 1689. It confilts of twenty-three arched rooms on different stories i P*1S0XS-in mod of which there is a piece of timber on the floor with a staple in it, to which criminals may be chained. I found a prisoner or two in some of the rooms, but none in irons.—Their allowance is two pounds of bread each, a day: (one hundred and twelve of their pounds are equal to one hundred English). To mod of the 100ms there are double doors, one iron-latticed within another of wood; this is a very proper contrivance where prisoners are always confined.—At the top of the daircafes trap-doors are placed for preventing escapes in the night. This prison has also two dungeons down ten deps.

Near one of the city gates and opposite to the guard-room, there is a Prifott which confids of two circular rooms, each of them nineteen feet and a half in diameter.

At Warsaw there was its regular affizt of brtad; yet on weighing the various forts which I punch,iled of several bakers, I found bread cbiaptr here than in any other part of Europe which 1 had then visited.

o

One

B«E5L»0 Cl TT Fiiios.

Spix-

Horst.

COEUST.

Beelis

ClTT

FeISOX.

One is appropriated to men and the other to women; in each there were eleven pri-

foners, who, by the Governor s order, are employed out of doors for seven or eight hours every day. Their allowance is, two pounds of bread a day, besides fire and candle. -

In the Spin-house, firuated near the river which runs through the town, there were thirty-six poor people, besides eighteen prisoners committed for offences. The former are allowed meat three days in the week; and their rooms and beds appeared clean— the latter are allowed meat only on the great holy-days; that is, four times in the year. During the rest of the year they subsist on soup, and an allowance of two pounds per day of tolerably good bread. They are employed in spinning from fix to eleven every morning, and from twelve to fix in the afternoon.—In the chapel belonging to this work-house, divine service is performed every Sunday and Thursday, the poor fitting on benches in the lower part of the chapel, and the prisoners in the galleries.

In the Convent of the Fratres misericordia, there is a ward with forty-three beds for the sick, it is twenty-five feet and a half wide, and the beds about three feet asunder. I law eight or ten friars serving the sick with their dinners between ten and eleven. The friars themselves dine at eleven. I went again at four, and they were going to supper. All was clean and neat.

Patients from any country are admitccd into this convent; and the friars publish every year a list of the admissions and deaths. In 1776, the number admitted was seven hundred and forty-eight, and the number that died was sixty-four. In 1780, these numbers were six hundred and fifty-nine, and sixty-one.

I visited two or three other hospitals in this city, but saw nothing remarkable.

GERMANY.

AT Berlin, in the Gtj prison called Calaids Hoff, there are eight rooms on the ground-floor, and down ten steps eight dungeons: these rooms (thirteen feet by nine feet four inches) were numbered, and had barracks and stoves, one stove for two rooms. The dungeons are for the more atrocious criminals, of whom I saw several in irons, who were chained to staples in the wall. In 1778 the number of prisoners was eighteen men and thirteen women; and in 1781 it was fifty-eight of both sexes. Two of these were debtors; whole allowance is two grofebe (3^d.) a day each. This allowance is paid by the creditors, and if omitted one week, the debtor is set at liberty.—The allowance to criminals is one grofehe and a half. The prisoners, when their proceis is finished, are permitted to go into the court; the men for an hour each time, at eight, one, and four in summer, and three in winter; the women for one hour only in the day, from two to three.—The prisoner, at

his

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

99

his discharge, pays the gaoler a grofche a day, for the time he was confined before his process was finished, unless the judge orders otherwise.—The process ought to be finished in three months; and if it is not, the secretary is required to give account of the cause of the delay. After three months imprisonment, the fee to the gaoler is only half a grofche a day.—Here is ahead-keeper, who has apartments in the prison; an under-gaoler whose rooms look towards the prison windows; a surgeon whose salary is fifty crowns (ecus) a year, besides the pay for his medicines; a chaplain; and a secretary (greffier) who keeps the books, papers, &c.—The head-keeper’s salary is fifteen crowns and twelve grofche a quarter. In a book which he keeps, the following particulars are entered in ten columns—the time when the prisoner was committed—the magistrate by whom he was committed—his name—age— religion—place of nativity—condition—cause of confinement—time of discharge— and the number of prisoners. One of the judges is obliged to visit the prison onpe a week.

There were only three or four prisoners in a room, none of whom are permitted to go into the court till their process is finished (as my conductor informed me), that confederates may not be together.—One soldier at the gate, guards the prison in the day-time; but at night it is guarded by one within, and another at the back of the prison. These soldiers are relieved every two hours.

There is no torture-room in any of the prisons in the Prussian dominions, for the present king has set the example in Germany of abolishing the cruel practice.—In one of the rooms.of this prison are alphabetically digested, the names and descriptions, with the sentences, of all who have been confined in this prison, in order that should they be found here aJecond time, they may fuller a much severer punishment.

In the Court-prison (Ham-Voigbtey), there are seven cells.for criminals, and over them eight rooms for debtors and smugglers. These rooms look into a court, to which prisoners have access two hours in a day. All the rooms have barracks and stoves as in the other prison.* Here are two or three good rooms for debtors adjoining to the keeper's apartments, and several rooms in a back court. Creditors allow each debtor two grofche a day, and one for firing, besides paying one to the gaoler. Here were thirty-six prisoners in 1781; nine of them criminals in the cells.— Allowance to criminals is one grofche a day.—I here saw two of that fort of veils for punishment, called Spanish mantles (similar to those mentioned at Copenhagen p. 76.), one weighed fifty, the other seventy-five pounds: they are sometimes worn at the gate of this prison, and by smugglers at the custom-bottfe, one, two, or three hours.

Here the criminals had fire in all the iloves, though early in October. On my observing the propriety of this, the gaoler asked me, whether criminals had not fire allowed them in my country ? On my saying that in some prisons they had not; he replied, " How then do they txift in winter ? ”

O 2 The

Berlin

City

Prison.

Court

Prison.

IOO

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Beaux

Maisok

Di

Tkatail.

The Maifen de Travail, is a spacious building in the foburbs: it was crested in 1758: the front is two hundred and twenty feet, the Tides a hundred and sixty. It has a court in the centre. The number of inhabitants in 1778, were about four hundred and fifty, including fourteen children, and in 1781 five hundred and forty-six. Beggars, idle persons, and petty offenders of both sexes are lent to this house. Thole who can work are employed, fed, and clothed; and proper care and attention paid to the aged and infirm. Every time I was there, I was plealingly (truck with the cleanly appearance of all the inhabitants. Old and young, men and women, were spinning and carding wool, in rooms about seventy-five feet by twenty-four. All have clean linen once a week; and I observed a towel hanging up in each room. The apartments are white-washed once a year: this gives freshness and neatness, and also light to the work-rooms. Here is a chapel with two galleries, one for each sex i and an apartment for the chaplain. The hall for meals is spacious: the hours, fever, twelve, and seven. I was prefect at dinner-time; after ringing a bell, in ten minutes all were feared at about twenty tables, eighteen to each table. Four separate tables were at a little distance for criminals. A servant having called out, Jdaue, the school-master prayed at the desk in the middle of the room. And after all had helped themselves with barley-soup,* while they were eating, he read part of a chapter in the Bible; then sung an hymn, in which the children, who were all at one table, joined; after which, all went out and fetched their cans, each containing about a quart, and they were filled with small beer. After lpending about half an hour at dinner, they had half an hour for recreation. The whole was conduced with the grearefl: regularity.

In the hail are morning prayers, at which all mu ft attend clean, and then they take their bread for breakfast.—The inhabitants are divided into two dalles, the peer, and criminals. In 1781 there were eighty-six of the latter class, who are more confined than the poor. Both daffes have the fame nourishment, except that the first have meat twice a week, and the Jecmid only on Sunday. Their weekly talk is twelve pieces (or knots), each weighing five ounces: if they do more, they are paid for it. When they are sick, they are lent to the great hejpital; where the room allotted to them, and all the other rooms, are too much crowded.—Dinner for the second class is, Sunday, pease and half a pound of meat; Monday and Friday, beans or lentils; Tttefday and Saturday, flour; Wedmjday, barley; Thursday, pease.

This house resembles the eld rasp or work-house at Amllerdam. It is exceedingly neat, and such great attention is paid to all confined in it, as prevents every ground

I tailed the barley-fonp, the bread and the beer, which were whcleiome and good, and they had rnoogh.—They have batter or cbeefe, with their bread for flipper

of

Sect. IV. GERMANY.

of complaint. The ftrish and good police prelerves the city of Berlin entirely free from beggars.*

In the Orphan-house there were forty-six boys and forty-one girls, all healthy and cheerful, employed in spinning wool in two spacious rooms. I looked into their bed-rooms and observed them to be clean and airy, having opposite windows which were thrown open—From seven to nine o’clock, and from one to three, they are at school; and from nine to eleven, and three to fix, they work.

There are two infirmaries in which there was only one sick child.—This house exhibits a contrail to that at Copenhagen; though the employments of the children, which my conductor there pretended to be the cause of their cutaneous disorders, are the fame.

At Spandau, about ten miles from Berlin, are two prisons. The Fortress or castle, is surrounded with water. Thirty-six state prisone.s were confined in it in 1778, and a hundred and five criminals. Some few of the latter were ralping logwood; the talk for each, thirty-six pounds a day: but moll of them were spinning. The criminals were badly lodged, and there seems to be little attention paid to them. They had a light chain to each foot, and such as were taken after an escape had a collar of iron. In 1781 there were a hundred and fourteen prisoners. Here are none but men, for no women are ever permitted to continue a night in the caltle.

In the House of correction, in 1778, there were about a hundred and fifty persons, spinning, knitting, and carding wool for a manufactory in Berlin. Forty-seven of these were men, committed for small offences. They have meat (4-lb.) only on Sundays, in this and some other houses of correction. Here were some rooms with silk-worms, on which the female prisoners attended. Neither this, nor any foreign I oules of correction which I have leen, are without a chapel.

In 1781, there were seventy men and one hundred and ten women. The apartments of the latter were neat and clean. Their dinner was good soup made of barley: but the bread was not lo good as at the work-house at Berlin; the daily allowance was twenty-two ounces, together with two quarts of beer.—A few sometimes work more than their talk, and are paid for it. A distin&ion is made between the prisoners; and such as are reckoned infamous, are confined in a room by themselves. — I made the fame inquiry of the keeper here that I had made in similar houses, whether the work of the prisoners maintained them ? The fame general answer was given, no, no.

That the police is indeed drift and extensive I had some evidence by weighing the bread from various parts of the city; all which exactly agreed with the assiou or Itandard. In June 1778, the fine white bread was something above three halfpence a pound; and there was just double the weight of rye bread for the fame money. In October 1781, three pennyworth of the fincil was 1 lb. 140Z; of the second fort, 31b. 702: and of the third, 51b. 402. The bakers here and in Silelia, gain more by the line bread, than by the coarie, which lait fort, however, they are obliged to make; this is designed for the advantage of the poor.— Here also the price of the several forts of butchers meat is fixed and published.

At

idi

Berlin

Orphan-

house.

Spandau.

House

of

Correction.

102 FOREIGN PRISONS.

Macd: ictc. At Magdeburg the Prussian Oaves were at work on the fortifications, serving the masons, digging sand, &c. Their daily allowance is two pounds of bread, and on the days they work, they have also in money, half a grofche, about three farthings. The number was only fifty-one, for many had been taken to recruit the army. In the other prisons, nothing seemed worthy of oblervation: but in the house of ccrre3ion (which was formerly a convent) was a mill to grind or beat the logwood that the men rasped; and two or three large chambers of flk-worms, on which the women attended.

Lvkat. If I may judge, by what I saw of the fate prisons here, and at Spandau, and by the few prisoners in the spacious areas, all their apartments are not so dreadful as some imagine; nor are all the persons confined in them unhealthy and miserable objects.* The house of correction for Lusatia, at Luk.au, is a spacious prison. The men were treading in a large wheel to grind corn, five and five by turns. Some of them had iron collars, as at Bern, but no irons on their feet. The prison for the women was a distintl building; their employment was spinning.

D*£ iS£S. At Dresden', the apartments for the Haves being under the fortifications, mull be unhealthy. I saw four lick, and yet they had their irons on. Among those that were at work, one had an iron collar, by way of punishment for making an escape, besides the broad iron about his leg. Another was fitting, and endeavouring somewhat to alter the place of his iron. He told me that the weight was marked on it ttoenij-ene pounds, and that he could not have it changed to the other leg without paving a smith. Here are two other prisons. The house of correBion has ten or twelve rooms, each about ten feet square, with one window, and an aperture over the door, and barrack-bedftcads. There were ten prisoners, five of each sex. Three of the men were rasping logwood in a room down twenty steps; and the other two were employed as labourers in building a chapel. This prison and the orphan-house, is, very improperly, one building. The other Prison for the hailliage, contains nineteen chambers, in which were twenty-six prisoners; moll of whom had a chain (some on one foot, some on both) fattened to a staple in the wall. The prison was dirty; and the gaoler’s pan of charcoal and frankincense (which his negligence rendered necessary) could not prevent its being very offensive. Here was <Jne debtor, who had from his creditor fix grofche (ten pence halfpenny) a day. The criminals allowance is one grofche (about seven farthing.) each.f There They are sot all confined to a (mail quantity of bread and water, in cells of four feet square and fix fcei high, and loaded with seventy-eight pounds of iron, as the ingenious and intrepid Trtnek, v>ho was Lx years in this fortress. t Od paying my acknowledgments to th? grand bailiff for permitting me to fee the gaol, I took %he liberty *o observe, that 1 had seen prisons cleaner. ! mentioned also the severity of chaining women.

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

103

There was nothing very remarkable in the two prisons at Prague. The men at the Maison de Force, work out, with a guard, sawing wood, &c. for twelve creutzers a day,* which is less than the common wages of labourers. The prisoners themselves receive only four for a day’s work, the rest is paid to the house. Many were thus employed, with chains to one or both legs, according to the different terms of their confinement.

At Vienna, in 1778, I visited all the prisons, and most of the hospitals. The prisons are old buildings, and afford no instruction.

The front of the great prison, Ld Maison de Bourreau, is remarkable for a very striking representation of the crucifixion of our Saviour, and the two thieves on mount Calvary. In this prison are many horrid dungeons.

Here, as usual, I inquired whether they had any putrid fever, and was answered in the negative. But in one of the dark dungeons down twenty-four steps, I thought I had found a person with the gaol-fever. He was loaded with heavy irons, and chained to the wall: anguish and misery appeared with clotted tears on his face. He was not capable of speaking to mej but on examining his breast and feet for petechia or I'pocs, and finding he had a strong intermitting pulse, I was convinced that he was not ill of that disorder. A prisoner in an opposite cell told me, that the poor creature had desired him to call out for assistance, and he had done it, but was not heard. This is one of the bad effetls of dungeons.

In the House of correllion, were a hundred and sixty-nine men, and a hundred and forty women. The women were employed in carding, spinning, and knitting. I was present on a Monday morning, when they brought their week’s work, for which, after it had been weighed, they received their pay. They have all that they earn for themselves. A few received twenty-six creutzers each, others less. The keeper was employed in putting the name on the work of each prisoner, and setting down the money that was paid, and the cotton delivered. The prisoners fata the cotton weighed, and took as much as they could spin in that week.f At dinner-time, several large pans of soup and beer were brought in, and the prisoners bought what they thought proper.

The prison was too much crowded, the house not being built for the purpose to which it is applied. J In several rooms the men were carding and spinning. In one

Prague.

Vienna.

House

of

Correction.

women, which is very uncommon in other countries. To this he answered, that “ the gaoler chained them for security, being often obliged to be absent in fetching prisoners from the country.” In return, I gave my opinion that the attention to a prison ought to be the whole employment of a gaoler, with mt which, little regard will be paid to cleanliness or humanity.

A creuizer is near a halfpenny, f In the holydays, when the prisoners are not permitted to work, each has an allowance of four or five creutzers.

J One or two of the women were crying, and charging others with riling in the night and Healing fomc of their cotton. The mistress believed the complaint, but laid ihe was not able to prevent such fraud*, because there was not the convenience offeparate apartments.

room.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

10+

VltSK*

House

cr

Correction.

Alii

hOl i£.

Ho:?TT il.;

room, some of them, who were tailors, were making clothes for the soldiers: in another, some were weaving coarse linen at eight looms: and in another room, they were making thick blankets for the convents. Two more rooms were warehouses for cloth, dockings, coverlets, &c. manufactured in the house for sale. They were then white-walhing the house.* In the chapel is a proper separation of men and women. Here, and at Prague, and in some other parts of Germany, they have iron-grate doors, which do not prevent the circulation of air, so salutary and necessary in houses of confinement. Too little attention was paid to the lodgings of the prisoners, for they had no coverlets.

Though I could not mention with commendation the prisons of this city, yet I mud acknowledge, I was greatly pleased with the public buildings for the indigent, the aged, and infirm-, which do honour to the citizens in general, and especially to the late Fmprcjs fl>ueen.

The great Alms-boujc in the suburbs consists of three courts. The front of this spacious building is six hundred and thirty-seven feet; the Tides, eleven hundred and fifty-three. The inhabitants are near three thousand, including the military invalids. It was agreeable to observe their order, neatness, and cleanliness. Here poverty and old age appeared with a lmiling aspect. Many of them were seventy or eighty years of age. They were cheerfully lpinning, because whatever they could gain was to be their own.

Les Freres de Charite have not only wards for the Tick in their convent, but thele friars have also another airy and commodious house with gardens, to which they remove their patients when they begin to recover. In this house were two wards up stairs, and each ward had fourteen beds.

The noble Hospital for bringing up children, was the plan of one petfon, whom 1 left engaged in the improvement of his liberal design. In sixteen rooms for boys, were five hundred and thirty-nine beds, and two hundred and forty-one in eight rooms for girls. The extent of the front is six hundred and sixty-two feet.

In the great alms-house, and in several prisons and other public buildings, the rooms arc all arched with Hone or brick, to prevent danger and confusion in case of fire.—In several prisons and hospitals, where I have found the flab-cases and floors wood, my mind has reverted to the wife precautions used in this city.

Before I leave this city, I would jull mention, that every month, an accounc of the price, weight and measure of bread and flour, is put up on the gates.f

At

It Is the general rule in Dutch and German houses of'correction, to rvbite-wash them once or v£tcc i year. I feidom neglected to inquire about this practice, as we have a clause relative to this S-T.e~cial mode, in a late afi ftr prtfervirg the btahb of frijoners in goal.

*- Tor bills I obferred were dated J.!» i, rr-9. Seven sorts of bread were mentioned in them. Thr -fwas (by or weigh:*) exactly one pcun J f.-r three halfpence of our money. The ftcond fort

was

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

At Gratz (the capital of Stiria) I observed in the house of correction, that the prisoners had an appearance far more healthy than those I had seen in a similar house at Vienna. They have beds and coverlets, and the guards fee that the men take off their clothes at night.

I omit particulars concerning the prison at Laubach in Carniola, as I cannot fey a word in favour of it.

At Trieste, the prison consists of eight or ten very close offensive rooms, each having only one small window. The pale countenances of the (nineteen) prisoners bespoke their own misery, and the negligence of the magilh-ates and keepers.

But in the Castle were eighty-five slaves (condamati) who seemed healthy and well. They were confined for three, five, seven, or fourteen years and upwards; and were employed on the roads, in the harbour, &c. Some of them were at work in a large lighter, clearing the harbour, just under my chamber window.* They were guarded by fix soldiers. They did not work harder, than other labourers would in the fame employment. Their hours for work were from five in the morning till between five and six in the afternoon; but they had two (from eleven to one) allowed them for rest, and half an hour more sometime before they left work. They appeared healthy, clean and strong; and laboured cheerfully, because when they were employed, each of them received, as extraordinary pay, three farthings a day. They were distinguished from other labourers by a light chain on their legs. Their common allowance was two pounds and a half of bread and four farthings a day. I heard them called over, and few them receive their pay, before they entered their chambers in the castle. Their bread was sweet and good. They were treated with humanity, though under strict discipline; were well supplied with food and clothes; had two lhirts, two pair of stockings, &c. and they lay in good beds with coverlets (feepage 33), in large airy rooms having opposite windows, and not, like many convicts, in close dirty dungeons, under the fortifications.

was one pound and fix ounces for a penny. Inferior forts made of ijt were cheaper. At Dresden, the prices were, <1ubite bread, 180a.; boufeboid, 2lb.; rye bread, lib. 11 cz.. and half—for one grofcbe, or seven farthings.—The bakers at Vienna are punished for frauds by the severity and disgrace of the ducking.stool. This machine of terror, fixed on the fide of the Danube, is a kind of long pole or board extending over the water, at one end of which the delinquent, being fattened in his baikec, is immersed. The bakers would gladly porchafe a removal of this machine, but the punUhment is continued, and inflicted on delinquents by order of the snagistrates.

Two wheels were fixed in the lighter, one of them to draw back the (coop or bucket, and the other (by the weight of ten men treading in it) to raise the mud, which was then emptied into another lighter managed by the overseer of the work. Three or four times a day, a soldier (with a bayonet fixed on his muiket) accompanied a conviA, who went to fetch a tnb of fresh water, and on his return he supplied each with a tumbler of it while they were at work in the wheel. By the malt of the other lighter, a fell was spread to ihade them, the weather being very warm, Fareubat’s thermometer 8;°.

P ITALY.

IOJ

Gratz.

Laubach.

Trieste.

Castie.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

lot

ITALY.

I entered Italy in 1778 with raised expectations of considerable information, from a careful attention to the prisons and hospitals, in a country abounding with charitable institutions and public edifices.

Venice. At Vesice, the chief prison is near the Doge’s palace,* and it is one of the strongest I ever law. There were between three and four hundred prisoners, many of them confined in loaihlome and dark cells for life; executions here being very rare. There was no fever, or prevailing disorder in this dose prison. None of the prisoners had irons. On weighing the bread allowance, I found it fourteen ounces.

I alked fbme who had been confined many years in dark cells, whether they should prefer the galleys ? They all answered in the affirmative: so great a blessing is light and air! The chapel is for the condemned, who continue there a night and a day before execution.

Regulations were hung up in the prison.—Here is a charitableJocietj established for the relief of prisoners both civil and criminal, and rules are published for the direction of the officers who have the management of it, of whom four are appointed visitors of the prison. There are likewise rules for the good government of the . two infirmaries. These I procured from the ducal printer, with the regulations for the galleys and prisons, for many years past.

One of the galleys was moored two boats length from the shore, in which were only twenty-seven Haves, who were kept here in order to be sent on board the other galleys. This was clean. Here, and in the other galleys, which were dirty and crowded, the Haves were in chains of about twenty-seven pounds weight. I saw a Have dead on the Ihore, who I suppose destroyed himself in despair; as he could have no hope of an escape by iwimming, because of his heavy irons.

Pane*. I visited the prisons of Padca and Ferrara. In the former of these cities, none of the confined debtors would lit on the elevated stone stool in the great hall: and I was informed that not one had submitted to the ignominy these ten years, f

The rooms for the Jtau frifimm are over part of the palace on the leads, which renders confinement in the heat of sommer almost intolerable.

+ This is sometimes called the Jttmt tf Hfgract; for if they who are insolvent would avoid imprisonment, at a time fiaed they most fit upon it in a disgraceful manner three times.

At

Sect. IV. ITALY.

At Bologna are three prisons; one of which is for debtors, who are alimented after four months and three days confinement, at one fault (about six-pence) a day each.

The Hospital, S. Maria it Vita, afforded me great pleasure. All was clean; and the wards were lofty, and not in the lead offensive. The wards of the men and women were of the fame size, each containing thirty-eight beds, nineteen on each fide. The bedsteads were of iron, and the coverlets were white and clean. Each ward had fourteen windows, seven on a fide, and all had curtains. They had folding wooden casements; and on the outside, wire lattices. The wards of this hospital were thirty-two feet and a half wide, and the beds were three feet two inches wide, and three feet eight inches asunder.- In the middle of each space of the wall between the beds was a cupboard, with a shelf, concealed by a small curtain; and over each curtain was a flip of black marble with the number of the bed. On the Tides of all the wards, for the convenience of opening and Quitting the windows, was a gallery eighteen feet above the floor, and two feet broad, with an iron rail two feet nine inches high. The doors to the wards were iron grates, five feet five inches wide.

In Florence are two prisons.* In the great Prison, Palazzo degl’ Otto, were only twenty prisoners. Six of them were in the secrete chambers, which are twenty-one strong rooms. None of the prisoners were in irons. They had mattresses to lie on. Their bread was good. In the torture-chamber, there was a machine for decollation, which prevents that repetition of the stroke which too often happens when the axe is used.

In the other Prison, Delle Stinche, there are five doors to pass before you come to the court. The opening of the first is three feet wide, and four feet nine inches high, with an inscription over it, Oportet mifereri, (We ought to be compassionate). In this prison are many spacious rooms, in which are small benches to lie on. The men’s rooms are below, and look into the court, which is about forty-three feet square. The women, entirely separated, are up stairs, and have an hospital joining to their room. A new infirmary for the men (forty-four feet by twenty-nine) is contiguous to the chapel. In this prison were forty-two men and fourteen women. Debtors were not separated from criminals. In one room were eight, who paid for their beds. The bread was good: the daily allowance to each, fifteen ounces. None were in irons. The chaplain has apartments, and resides in the gaol.—This prison has lomething similar to the plan I proposed. A wall surrounds three sides of it; but being very high, and only eleven feet and a half distant, renders the prison too close.

Dr. Pargicni, who had an order from his Royal Highneis to inspect the hospirals, and report what beneficial improvements might be made in them, accompanied me in visiting the ie prisons.

P 2

The

107

Bologna.

HosriTAt.

Florekcs

Prisons.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

108

fiemci

Hospitals.

Alus-

OOSSI.

LESBOS*.

Fotruis.

The great Hospital of Maria Natra was crowded, and too close; though the mea’s fever ward was four hundred and fifty-four feet long, and thirty feet and a half wide. They have ieparate wards for wounds and fra&ures. The women are attended by the ant, who have a passage under ground from the opposite convent. Here arc twenty students, who lodge and board in the house for seven years, attend the sick, serve the victuals, &c.* and are distinguished by a long cloak.

But the Hospital which I most frequently visited, was S. Giovan di Die. The afoent into the sick ward is by a Sight of thirty (tone steps. This ward was lofty and clean; and was a hundred and twenty-three feet long, and thirty-three and a half wide. There were in it thirty-three beds, three feet four inches wide, placed on vansjbed boards, on iron bedsteads. This is very conducive to cleanliness, and lecures patients from vermin.—At one end there are five rooms with single beds for sick priests. Three of them were occupied. Neither the sides nor floors of this, and the other hospitals of Italy, were wood, that being more retentive of feents or infection than tarras or brick.—The great attention of this order of friars to the sick, in every country where they hare hospitals, docs them honour.

The Hospital S. Paolo della Cotroatejcenza, for the reception of recovering patients, has clean and airy apartments, and a spacious refe&ory, or dining-hall. They continue here four days, and by the change of air and diet their health is confirmed before they go to their' several occupations.

Here I would just mention an Alms-bnfe, S. Boni/azio, for infirm persons of advanced age. It had eighty beds for each fez, and they were fitting up twenty more. The wards are thirty feet wide, all clean, and shewed the care of the HU who attend on this charity.-f

In the Prifn at Leghorn were three debtors, and eight of those called frifoners at large, and in the secrete three criminals. I mention this prison because of the infirmary, which, as appears by an inscription over the door, was built at the cipence of the present governor, Philip Borbonk, in 1761.

The Haves in the Fertrefs\ appeared healthy and well; better, as the old keeper remarked, since they have lam on jbart.—Galleys or bulks ought to be the punishment

I a friar or tafmdm come in form and thfi the meat or fbnp for dinner. The numerous pttiats teemed entirely Satisfied with this, without any devotion of their own.

f I cannot leave Florence without exprdSng my great obligations to the Grand D*i* for his per-nilofi to iafped the prifoos, and making my acknowledgments to Sir Horace Mama our ambassador, for his very kind attention and affi fiance.

t In this Fortress, there were a hundred and thirty-two (laves: at Pisa, were eighty-five: and at the GrsWDah's (alt-works at Part Ferrara, seventy.

only

Sect. IV. ITALY. 109

only for the moll atrocious crimes.—Each prisoner had a ring round one leg; Liomm but when they go out to work, a chain is rivetted to two prisoners. Here were Fo»TKESS-seven pontons to clear the harbour; but the weather, when I was there, being stormy, they could not be worked. There were forty-seven Oaves employed at the new Lazaretto, which is a noble spacious building, with different apartments for officers and their men to perform quarantine, and large warehouses for the cargoes of their ships.*

The keeper generously ordered his son to copy for me all the rules, from which I shall here give some extraifls.

Three keepers have their salary from the Grand Duke. They receive a copy of the process against every convict, carry it to the government, and register it in the proper book; and when required, they mull give an exact account of all proceedings against the prisoners. They make a report of the refractory to government, that they may be punished in proportion to their offences, with severer confinement, irons, and baftinadoes. The principal keeper has power to choole two turnkeys out of the bell-behaved prisoners, who are to exhort and instruft the others; but the keeper is to have a Jtrill watch over them. He mull order that all prisoners, when they are brought in, have their heads lhaved—be drafted in the uniform of the house—and have irons on their feet.

The prisoners are condemned to labour, for thirty, twenty, ten, or seven years, or for a shorter term, according to the nature of their crimes; and are chiefly employed on the public works. They are sent out every morning, under a guard of soldiers, and are chained two and two together, with a chain of about eighteen pounds weight. An hour’s relaxation is allowed them at breakfast, and two hours in the afternoon: and at an hour before sun-set, they are recondudled to the prison, and mull be well searched by the keepers, to prevent their having any thing concealed: and two hours after sun-set, they are ordered to go quietly to rest. When they are employed on the works by his royal bigbness, they are paid two crazzies (about three halfpence) a day; but if employed by other persons, they are paid four or fix crazzies, according to the nature of the work. At day-break, the turnkeys ring the bell to awake them: and a report is made by them to the keepers, if any have been guilty of irregularities during the night. Their daily allowance is a loaf of thirty ounces, which is made two thirds of flour, and one third of bran, I and soup made from four ounces of pease boiled in water, with salt and oil. On each of the two Easier holydays they are allowed a pound of meat, and thre^ ounces of rice. Every two years they have a coat of gray cloth, a waistcoat of red cloth,

I wish some future traveller would give us plansof this L*%arttu, and that at Ancona and Other places, as they might suggest some useful alterations in the construOion of onr hospiuls and Other public buildings.

f Their bread was very good. I preferred it to that which I met with at my lodgings.

and

110

FOREIGN PRISONS.

LscBoair

Foctbess.

and a red cap; every year a pair of fhocs; and every (ix months a ihirt, and a pair of drawers or breeches. Their drawers are ihifted once a month, their ihirts every week. For lodging, they have a matrrefs filled with straw, and a coverlet: the straw is changed, and kept in good order.—If one attempts to desert, and be taken before fun set, he must wear a ring, and a chain of eighteen pounds weight; and he must pay half his future earnings, till it amounts to a zechin, to those that apprehended him.* If they who are condemned for five years, desert, when retaken, their term again commences: and for repeated dcfcrtions, they are more leverely punished, and sometimes tortured.

The chaplain must in/huB the prisoners.

In the bajpited there must be all proper provisions for the lick and infirm, viz. veal, mutton, rice, fine bread, broth, good wine, &c. A physician attends, and the diet and medicines must be according to his prescription. On entering, the patients have clean linen, Ihirts, night-caps, and clothes. And the keepers and turnkey must examine their victuals and soup, to fee that they be good, and that the quantity be according to the physician’s orders.f

A ttciin is about 9s. 3d.

t la Tafcany daring the ten years preceding 1765,

Then seen 3076 in prison for debt,

704 for petty offences,

210 condemned to the galleys,

17 executed,

5 branded.

This p uni foment of branding was abolished by the grand-duke, Leafuld.—In the four years preceding 1769, then was no capital pnnifomeat.

The Namier of debtors and criminals in prifom daring the ten years pmceding 1779.

Debtor*. Pitty Offenders. Scot to the Cillers, Executed.

1769 264 7* 34 t

1770 *4+ IOS 16 I

*77* 264 89 II O

*77* 292 105 IO O

*773 396 *S 9 O

*774 4* 109 21 0

*775 50S *5° 12 0

*776 384 *9 16 0

777 0 *'S 7 0

778 176 4* 6 0

Tntnl 3036 1126 *4* 2

The above is eitraded from, Indication Stmmaire del Reglemem lie. Je Leaf eld Grand Dee de Tcfcnni life. A BrmxeHe}, 1779.

At

R O M K

ftrtrn

- g . K

XtyFert

Sect. IV.

ITALY.

m

At the great prison at Rome, called the New Prison,* at the back of which runs the Titer, on a Hone tablet over the door, is this inscription:

JUSTITI.® ET CLEMENTINE SECURIORI AC MELIORI REORVM CCSTODInE NOVUM CARCEREM INNOCENTIUS X. PONT. MAX.

POSUIT 'S ANNO DOMINI

MDCLV.

Teffufiice and Clemency,

For the more ficBre and tetter custodj of criminals.

Pope Innocent X. eretted this New Prison firtbe year of ear Lord ‘ i*J5-

On the ground-floor; on one fide are the ilaves for the galleys at Civita-vecchia: on the ocher fide is a fort of cook’s shop, and a tap-room, over which are the women’s apartments, five of whom were in the secrete chambers, and twenty more at large.— There are eighteen of these strong rooms for the men, which.areclpfe.and offensive, each of them having but one window, for admitting air'and^bght:'‘ These rooms are never opened without an order from the governor of the city. There were sixty-eight prisoners. They are not permitted to go; out of their rooms at any time, but for examination. Some having been confined there many years, appeared with pale sickly countenances > but none were in irons.—Here is a chamber for distra&ed prisoners, in which were seven miserable objects. There are several chambers with beds for those who are called prisonirs at large, for which each pays. One paule and a half (about eight pence) a night. There is a chamber for priefis, opt for beys, one for Jews, and one for prisoners who have cutaneous disorders.—On the upper floor are two infirmaries: one, appropriated to the prisoners in the secrete, in which were four patients. In the others which' is-for the rest of the prisoners, were ten patients the first time I was there, -and the last rime only seven. This infirmary is a spacious airy ward, seventy-threeifeet by twenty-three, with seventeen beds, three feet three inches asunder; was clean, and had every thing proper for the lick. The whole prison is arched with brick, for security in case of fire. The passages are seven feet two inches wide, and light. The ascent to each story, is by two flights of seventeen stone steps. These ftairrafes are seven feet three inches wide; the rises five inches: this I mention, as generally, in our prisons (even those that are lately built) the stairs are narrow, the rises high, and the passages dark and inconvenient. There

The elegance and simplicity of the front of this prison occasioned me to give a plate of it.

is

Rome

New

Peisok.

Hi

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Roue

Ptisoas.

3A7-

Asgelo.

is a table of regulations by the authority of the magistrates hung up in this prison, ordering the eiifl times, of opening the prison and the court, of saying mass drily, and of distributing the alms. The times vary twice in a month, according to the different length of the days. In the fame table, the physician is ordered to visit the sick in the infirmary every morning; and in case of extraordinary illness, in the evening.—I wilh I could say I had fecn no torture-chamber.—On the fide of the great prison there is a pulley and rope (fee the plate) to draw up malefactors by their hands which arc tied behind them; after they have been suspended some time, by being liiddenly let down part of the way, their arms are dislocated.

In the Prison at the Capitol, are two rooms for debtors, and for criminals whose offences are not so great as to cause them to be confined in the secrete. The prisoners in one of these rooms, have the privilege of allring alms of the passengers. There were five debtors in rooms which they paid for, and two criminals in the secrete. This prison is not ofienfive. There is a constant current of water through one of the large rooms.

The date prisoners are confined in the castle of San Angelo. The rooms appropriated to that purpose were all empty, except one, in which was a bishop, who had been confined upwards of twenty years, and was distrafted. Here were also eighteen cmdannati who work in the fortress, and had each a light chain. They seemed healthy and well.—On the death of the Pope, the prisoners are brought hither from the great prison, for upon such occasions the prisons are thoroughly cleaned.

I can give but little information respecting the prison of the inquisition. It is firuated near the great church of St. Peter's. On one fide of the court round which it is built, is the inquisitor- general’s palace. Over the gate is an inscription importing “ that it was erected by Pope Pius V. in the year 1569.” The windows of the prison have wooden blinds, and at a small distance is a high wall. The chambers of this fleet and melancholy abode were quite inaccellible to me; and yet 1 spent near two hours about the court and the priests apartments, till my continuance there began to raise fuipicion.

There is an account of this mode of punishment at Rome in Dr. Moore's View of Society and Manners tu Italy, vol. I. /. 476, third edit. This Letter (44th.) is well worth perusing, in which the ingenious writer describes the manner of execution at Rome, with pertinent remarks, and concludes with these qaeftions. *' When criminals are carried to execution with little or no solemnity, amidst the lhouis of “ an unconcerned rabble, who applaud them in proportion to the degree of indifference and impeni-‘ tence they display, and consider the whole seene as a fonree of amusement; how can such exhibitions

* make any ufcfal unpression, or terrify the thoughtless and desperate from any wicked propensity ? *< If there is a country in which great numbers of young inconsiderate creatures are, fix or eight times every year, carried to exeentiou in this tumultuous, unaffecting manner, might not a stranger con-" elude, that the view of the legislature was to cut off1 guilty individuals in the lead alarming way pc-fible, that others might wtt be deterred from following their example ? ”

In

Sect. IV. ITALY.

In this City, as in most parts of Italy, is a Ctmfraternita della n6JhrkerdUi tailed S. Giovanni di Fiorentini: as many of Florentine extraction were the founders. This institution is ancient, for the church of S. Gio Battijla Decollate belonged to them in 1450. It consists of about seventy, chiefly nobles, of the belt families. After a prisoner is condemned, one or two of them come to him the midnight before his execution, inform him of the lentence, and continue with him till his death. They, with the confessor, exhort and comfort him, and give him his choice of the most delicious food. All the fraternity attend the execution, dreflfed in white. When the prisoner is dead, they leave him hanging till the evening j then one of the fraternity, generally a noble, cuts him down, and orders him to be conveyed to the burying-place which they have appropriated to malefactors. I was there the twenty-ninth of August, the only day in the year when this burying-place is opened to the public. Adjoining to an elegant church is a chapel, which makes one fide of a court, and on each of the other three (ides, is a portico supported by doric pillars. In the middle of the pavement* of the front portico the women, and in one of the fide porticos the men are buried. The latter are interred in the fame dress in which they were hanged; for in Italy, coffins are not in general use.

The Hospital of S. Michele is a large and noble edifice. The back, front is near three hundred yards long. It consists of several courts with buildings round them. In the apartments on three sides of one of the most spacious of rhefe court?, are rooffis for various manufactures and arts, in which boys who 'are orphans or destitute are educated and instructed. When I was there, the number was about two hundred, all learning different trades according to their different abilities and genius. Some were educated for printers, some for book-binders, designers, smiths, carpenters, tailors, shoe-makers, and barbels; and fotftie for weavers and dyers, a cloth manufacture being carried on here in all its branches. When the boys arrive at the age of twenty years, they are completely clothed, and a certain sum is given to set them up in the business they have learned. In the middle of the coure is a noble fountain, and several inferiptions to the honour of the founders of this excellent institution.

Adjoining to another court are apartments for the' aged and infirm, in which were two hundred and sixty men, and two hundred and twenty-six women. Here they find a comfortable retreat, having clean rooms and a refeftory. I conversed with some of them, and they appeared happy and thankful.

Here arc marble Hones, in which are circular aperture! for the interment of those that ate xecuted. Round these Hones is inscribed,

“ Domine, com venerit jndicart,

“ Noli net condemn art.11 O tord, when then Shalt tone to judge, do not condemn er.

Q.

, J3

Rout.

San

Michele.

Another

14

Roatt

Sax

Michele.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Another part of the hospital is a Prifn for boys or young men. Over the door is this inscription:

CLEMENS XI. FONT. MAX.

PERDITIS ADOLBSCENTIBUS CORRICENDIS INSTITUENDISqpE tXT QUI INERTES OBERANT INSTROCTI REIPCBLIC.* SERVIANT.

AN. SAL. MDCCIV. PONT. IV.

PopeClement XL Far tbt correBion and instruBion Of profligate youth: fiat they, who when idle, -acre injurious.

When iuflruBed, might he useful.

To the State.

*7°4*

In the room is inscribed the following admirable feutenee, in which the grand purpose of all civil policy relative to criminals is expressed.

parum est COERCERE IMPROBOS POENA

- NISI PROBOS EFFICIAS '

OISCIPLINA.

It is of little advantage To refrain the Bad By Punishment,

Uulefs you render them Good By Difripliuc.

Here were fifty bays (pinning, and in the middle of the room an inscription hung up,

SILEKTIUM.

This room being different from any I had before seen, a plan procured me by the kindness of Mr. Jenkins, may give a clearer idea of it than a verbal description would do.—In this hospital is a room also for women. On the outside is an inscription, expressing, that it was erected by Clement XII. in 173 j, for refraining the licsutioufnefs dud pmjbing the crimes of women.

There

J SduUfront the Sheet

2 Reefet) Roane

3 IKm&rt Rail) frr

Seattity

4 A Fountain

5 The Hall ahete/

they Work

6 RencheJ urith Chains j A /Miff Wtndtm'

8 The Altar

g The Tistty O The Sccofintant) Room, Zottyiny Rooms 3 Seeoets Plate of Chastisement Stair Cases to Prion) SellefielJ Rooms A Small Room

’8 Poems /hr fuel See.

Sect. IV.

1

T A I.

Y.

There are in Rome many Hospitals for the tick, but they were in general crowded, Rohe

yet none of them had more than one patient in a bed. In the great hospital of Hospitals. San Spirito in Sofia, there were, the first time I visited it, a thousand and fifteen patients, the second time eleven hundred and three. Formerly many nations founded hospitals in this city. This was founded by one of our Saxon kings. Some others continue to the present time entirely national, as the Milanese, Florentine, and Spanish hospitals.

Here is a Jtaireafe remarkable for its ascent being very easy, for valetudinarians, and for carrying up the sick in a kind of chairs or enclosed beds. It is seven feet wide, and has a rail on each fide. Every step is an inclined plane of three inches ascent, one foot eight inches wide, and the rife from one step to another is Only three inches.

These steps are of brick, set edgeways, and fronted with done.

The Hospital of S. Gio Laterano was allb crowded and offensive; and that of S. Giacomo degl' Incurabili was worse: but that called Benfratelli, that for the Florentines, that of S. Maria della Confolazione, were clean, and perfettly free from any offensive scents. In this last-mentioned hospital, no patients are received except such as have wounds or fraftures. At night, two chains are put across the street over-against this hospital, by an order of Pope Alexander VII. in 1661, for the purpose elegantly expressed in the inscription,

NE PRiETEREUNTE STREPITU QUIES AMICA SILENTIl OMNINO AB AGROT ANTIBUS EXULARET.

Before we take our leave of Rome, it may be proper just to mention the Hospital for pilgrims and convalescents. Recovering patients, when dismissed from the other hospitals, may enter into this, and reside here three days, lodge in airy wards, dine in the refeftory, and be well attended.

The Pope’s galleys are at Civita-vecchia. The Daves condemned to them are Civita-confined for different terms, according to the nature of their crimes: but the shortest VECCHIA' time is three years for vagabonds, who are generally employed on board the pontons in clearing the harbour. For theft, the term is never under seven years. Persons convicted of forgery are always confined for life; and if found guilty of forging bank-notes, or any instruments by which large sums have been loft, they are punished with an iron glove. Prisoners for life are chained two and two together: those for limited terms have all a single chain, and, at their first arrival, of the fame weight; but when they have no more than one or two years to serve, they have only a ring round their leg, which is lessened as the end of their term approaches.

Indeed I Taw the hospitals under great disadrantages, it being a very sickly time, occasioned by the long continuance of drought, and the extraordinary heats of the summer 1778.

CL2

For

FOREIGN PRISONS.

116

Civits- For dopes, they are obliged to finish their frjt condemnation, and then receive 3 StCCHii. one for the same time as the former} but if the first was for life, the fame is

renewed, and they receive from a hundred to two hundred lashes a day, for three days after their arrival. None are lent to the galleys under the age of twenty criminals of a younger age are kept at the hospital of S. Micbcte in Rome till they are of age; and are there employed in spinning, and fed on bread and water.

The allowance to each Have is three pounds of bread a day; and fifty-five pounds of beans or colovotsces to each galley, with which they generally make a kind of soup once in two or three days, and they are allowed two pounds and a half of oil to boil with their beans. At Easier, Christmas, and Carnival, they are allowed one pound of beef and half a pint of wine a man, and twenty-five pounds of rice jo a galley.

For their clothing, they have once in two years, a striped woollen tapello and waistcoat, two shirts, two pair of canvass breeches, and a woollen cap; and every year, two feec and a half of woollen cloth ro wrap round their legs instead of /lockings. The yearly expence of each Have for maintenance, clothing, and chains, is computed at fifteen Roman crowns and eighty-seven baitu, about £3: 13: 9.

At the rime of my being at Civita-vecchia, three of the galleys were out on a cruise, and two only remained. Through the whole night there was great silence, (as I lay in a felucca dole to them) though about four hundred were chained in each of the galleys.

The slaves here are constantly employed, and have a portion of what they earn for themselves, being paid according to their abilities and the nature of their work. For Jawing in the arfena], they are paid two pence a day each; for working as masons, two pence halfpenny; for carrying (tones and mortar, only a penny. Such as work at the canvass and calico manufactories, are paid from two pence to eight pence, according to the quality- of the work, See. At the public works they are allowed an hour for dinner, and in summer-time an hour for breakfast.*

Here is a ipacious hospital on Jbere for the Oaves. None were in irons. All was dean. In the centre of the great room in chis infirmary was an altar for public worship. A particular room was appropriated for such as had cutaneous disorders, and another for ten/nmptive patients. In this country, the physicians are persuaded that the cenfnmption is a contagious disorder. Patients afflicted with it in hospitals have a separate ward. The fame precautions are used to prevent infection as in the plague. When this disorder has been in private houses, the furniture is destroyed, and the rooms are feraped and fumigated, before they are again inhabited.

For the preceding account I am indebted to oar countryman Mr. Datum, who has the super-intendence of the Pope's galleys.

The

Sect. IV.

ITALY.

The principal Prison in the great and populous city of Naples* is LA Vtcaria, Nafs.es tinder the courts of justice. It contained, when I was there, according to the Pris0!*s-gaoler’s account, nine hundred and eighty prisoners. In about eight large rooms communicating with one another, there were five hundred and forty sickly objects, who had access to a court surrounded by buildings so high as to prevent the circulation of air. In this court was a recess, under arcades like those that were under the chapel at Newgate. Some of the prisoners were employed in knitting, and others in making shoes; but mod of them were entirely without employment. In fix chambers, which opened into a spacious hall, were many beds for such as could pay for them. Adjoining was a chapel, and a spacious infirmary for the whole prison j in which* were forty persons, in Angle beds, with Iheets, coverlets, &c. f In seven clofc offensive rooms were thirty-one prisoners, almost without clothes on account of the great heat; and in fix dirty rooms communicating with one another were fifty women. Of all the prisoners, one man only was in irons, in a dungeon, near a small chapel which is allotted to the condemned before execution.

The bread was good: the daily allowance to each was twenty-two ounces.

There were three other Prisons: one contained eighty prisoners, another near sixty, the other but eleven.

The Galleys were moored about ten feet from the shore. In the first were two Galiey'. hundred and sixty Haves j in the second two hundred and ninety-eight; in the third two hundred and seventy; and in the fourth, four hundred; most of them stout and healthy. All were chained two and two together. Their bread was hard, but sweet. About twenty-six ounces a day was allowed them; and when employed in the arsenal and other public works, they have an extraordinary allowance of near a penny a day. After escapes, if they are retaken, their whole term is doubled.

Each galley has a chaplain, and public worship on Sundays and holydays.

An account u taken every year of the inhabitants of this city; and at Safer 1777* their number, exclusive of soldiers and marines, was 350,061, viz.

Males >70*574 Females 165,642 Prieils 3303 Monks 4231 Nuns 6311

Of this number there were born in the year immediately preceding, 602^ males, and 5571 females.

The deaths in that year were 9553.

f In rifiting the prisons of Italy, I observed, that in general great attention was paid to the £ck ? but ( could not avoid remarking, that too little care was taken to prevent sickness.

From the heat of the climate, one might imagine the gaol-fever would be {very likely to prevail; but, I did not find it in any of the prisons.

In

113

FOREIGN PRISONS.

N'lfin

Alms-

hoc si.

i:

In the Seraglio, or great Alms-house,* there were about five hundred and fifty prisoners (cendemnati) in eight or nine rooms. Many of them work as labourers on this great building, with chains varying according to the terms of their confinement, and have the extra allowance just mentioned, with five ounces of flour for soup. In these rooms were ihoe-makers at work, as in some of the galleys, but most of the prisoners had no employment.f

This great building is to be a receptacle for the aged and infirm, and for beggars and idle persons. There is a great number of the former in some rooms that are finished, and which have windows into a court, where they were diggings foundation for a large church, by which the numerous inhabitants will be deprived of the salutary effects of the circulation of air.

The galley-slaves have an hospital on the shore fronting the bay, entirely appropriated to them and their guards. J It has four or five spacious and airy wards, cleaner than most of the other hospitals in this city. One of these rooms is only for the guard of the marine. The patients are distinguished into three classes; very ill—lick—and recovering. Great attention is paid to them: and they are allowed good bread in sufficient quantity.

The great and crowded Hospitals of 51. Jpojloli and L' Annunziazicne, have wards appropriated to the cure of wounded persons. 9

The Hospital of the Benfrattlli, or 5. Gio di Dio, is clean and elegant. It consists chiefly of one lofty ward , at one end of which is an altar and a room for poor priests; and at the other end, a table, on which are placed the patients victuals. Near this table was inscribed a reference to the appolite words of Scripture, Matthew xxv. 1 5, 36. For I was an bungred, and ye gave me meat: &c.

The front of this building already extends near thirteen hundred feet, and probably it will be enlarged.

t As 00 regular plan had been settled for the employment of these (laves, the king lately made a prefen: of three hundred of such of them as had been condemned for life, to the Maltese.

I On my telling the furgeoo, that io some countries a part of each galley is made an hospital (aiioding in my mind to our Hulks); he replied, that most soon make the ’tvhtle an hospital.”

II The frequency of aHaiilrs and a£a£nations in Italy is generally known. Many of the common profit Item to be ignorant or infrnfible of the atrociousness of the crime of murder. The Criminals in p 1 ilon expreis, with Icttnicg iatitfaclioti of mind, ‘‘ that though they liabbed they did not rob.” Ifw-e consider that wards and even hospital, appropriated to the wounded arc filled with patients, that the prllons are crowded, and that many are continually taking refogc on the Heps of churches, and r amine our account; in JargaTs L:Jh and the Judges Returns, we may reckon that there are more murders committed in 2 year in the city of Naples or Rome, than in Great Britain and Ireland. Does ml this prove that the English are not naturally cruel ? And might not arguments be derived from hence, for the revisal and repeal of some of our fangainary laws? The Marquis Beccaria jultly remarks, in Chap. 28. that the death of a criminal is a less efncaciou, method of deterring others, ” than the continued example of a nan deprived cf his liberty.”—And that ” the punishmentof death *‘ is pernicioas to society, from the example of barbarity it affords.”

In

Sect. IV.

ITALY.

”9

In many of the Italian hospitals, and in all that I have seen belonging to this order of friars, there are no rooms over the lick wards, so that they are as lofty as our churches or chapels.

At Lucca, they formerly fold their condatmati to the Genoese or Venetians, but Lucca. now they keep them in prison without any employment.

At Genoa, besides a Prison for debtors, and a Prison for female criminals, there is Genoa a great Prison for male criminals, confiding of thirty-five rooms tolerably airy. I saw P*,50KS-none of the prisoners in irons. Their daily allowance was thirteen ounces of good wheaten bread for each, besides soup. To this prison belongs an hospital, and a chapel with a large room to which the condemned are brought four days before their execution.—The infirullions formed for this prison by the supreme Syndics, are hung up in it, and contain excellent regulations, as will appear from the' following account of a few of them.

“ The keeper shall have under him fix afilstants: — and the said keeper is to be responsible, and liable to punishment, if any of the assistants shall be guilty of the lead fraud or neglect in their employment.—The advocate fifeal is once a week, at any time he shall think proper, but when be is leaf expelled, to vilit the cells of the prison, and to inquire diligently how the prisoners are treated by the keeper and aflidants, in order to give information to the mod fereue Senate, &c.—When any prisoner is condemned to death, he is immediately to be put into chains.—The keeper is always to keep the chapel (but, except at the time of celebrating trials, confession, or administering consolation to the unhappy.—He is allb to take care that the prisoners do not play at any games, particularly cards. The lad order is, that this table of regulations be fixed up in the criminal court of judice, in the chancery, and in the apartments of the criminals.”

In one of the Galleys just returned from conveying some noblemen to their country Galleys. feats, I found about three hundred dout fellows, clean and healthy: for the old and infirm had been left in the galleys at home, of which there were only two, the othei two being out on a cruise.

The hospital for died- galleys is on shore-, and in it arc hung up the regulations, which consist chiefly of such orders as the following:

“ That five superintendencs shall be appointed by the magistrates, who every month shall draw lots, to determine which of the galleys they are to inspect.—That exact lids of the crews, and of the lick in the infirmary, with an account of the time of their admission, shall be taken and kept, with the assistance of the physician, chaplain, and surgeon.—That the secretary {hall keep a regillcr of all things necessary to be provided; bread, wine, meat, peale, beans, rice, &c. &c.—That four caldrons of broth shall be allowed weekly to a galley, besides kettles of broth datedly given them in the three winter months.—That when the superintendents discontinue the allowance of meat, cheese, oil, and dockfilli, the chaplain shall fee that each of the

Haves

120

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Gevo.4

Galleys.

Hospitals.

Milay

?*I>0.V5.

Oaves be served daily wilh half a pint of wine.—That the physicians shall keep exafl accounts of their orders of meat, wine, pastry, &c.—That the captains and mid-ihipmen shall take care that all the regulations be exactly observed.”

The Turkilh Oaves had many little (hops on shore, for felling coffee, perfumes, See. and for (having; like those I remember to have leen about fifteen years since at Marfcilles. The bread allowance to the Haves is three pounds and a half, for two days in summer; and three pounds in winter.

In the great Hojfital there were about three hundred men, and six hundred women. All sick persons of any nation are admitted into it; and it is one of the belt and least offensive of the public hospitals of Italy. Here was a room and ward for foundlings, crowded and close; and the poor infants were cruelly bound hands and feet with bandages, as in the hospital at Florence, and other cities in Italy.

There were allb in this hospital apartments for the infant. These apartments were close and dirty; and the calm and quiet, I found inhumanly confined in the fame room with the notjy and turbulent.

The rObergo hospital, situated on an eminence within fight of the harbour, is an asylum for boys and girls. There were in it a hundred and seventeen of the former, and four hundred and eighty-two of the latter. It is something similar to the noble and well-regulated hospital of San Michele at Rome. Over the door of the great room, where numbers were spinning and weaving, is this inscription:

Silentium et Obcdientia.

At Milan-, in the great Prison, there are twenty /terete chambers. The general size of these rooms is eleven feet by twelve to fifteen. In some were only one or two persons, but in others fix or eight: the windows are cowards a high wall eleven feet distant. These are fbmc of the lbrongeft and mod retired rooms in the Italian prisons, in which the mod atrocious offenders, and those who are imprisoned for life, are confined. They are inacceCible but by a special order. The entrance is guarded by two doors, beeween which is a narrow space, just sufficient to admit two persons. Into this you are locked before the turnkey opens the inner door, for fear these desperate criminals should murder the keeper for the keys, and attempt to rush out.

In the Prison for debtors, in this great trading city, there were only four persons confined for debt.

There are two frijons called UArgajlro, and La Ca/a di Correzione, which do honour to the country. Both are for criminals, condemned either for a term of years, or for life. The mofi atrocious, work in chains in the street; the others, only in the house.

In L'Argafiro there were three hundred and fifty-nine prisoners, healthy and strong. A considerable number of them were at work in public: they water the streets and public walks (at the expence of the city) there being nineteen small waggons for that purpose; fix men draw, and one attends behind chained. Others repair the pavements, &c. But in the house there were at work Ihoe-makers, tailors, smiths,

wheel-

Sect. IV.

I T A L Y.

121

wheelwrights, cabinet-makers, turners, nailers, rope-makers, leather-dressers, painters on gauze, spinners and weavers. Many, here learn trades s so that'there is a probability, that when their term is finished, they will become u/eful members of society; which should be the grand objeSt in all such houses. Theyreceive for themselves one third of what they earn, and two thirds go to the house.

Their dormitory is a spacious room,. with three stages in it on which they He. In the centre of the cieling are four large apertures, and sixteen small ones.—A pri-. Toner, whose employment was drawing deligns and patterns, gave me a plan'of the rooms and courts in this prison.

There are two courts, a pump, and running water for waihing the linen of the prisoners, which they Ihift once a week. I observed to one of the prisoners, that they were cleaner than most working men: he replied, " or else the confinement would be intolerable. ” The daily allowance to each is thirty-five ounces of good bread,* and a mess of good vegetable soup. They have two hours for dinner and repose. All had a chain to each leg. if any escape and are retaken, the whole term is renewed, and half as much more.

In this house there is an hospital, a chapel, and an apartmenc for the chaplain.

The Caja di Correzione is now (1778) building, on a noble and spacioils plan.f The dormitory and the work-rooms for the men are finished and occupied. The two work-rooms for the women are large and lofty (twenty-three feet wide and twenty-five feet high); and in each there are five large windows, placed high above the floor. At one corner of these rooms are (lone basons, with water laid in to them. In one of the men’s work-rooms there were forty looms employed weaving linen, cotton, and diaper: in which also, and in two others opening into it, were warping and twisting-mills, and winding-wheels. Under these was a calender: and lbme were employed in heating (not carding) cotton. In a detached temporary building I saw a prisoner employed in weaving gauze j who (as I conjectured from the great resort to him) was reckoned curious in this art. With the alliftance of some that were employed with him, he kept four looms at work. Other prisoners were bleaching the cloth manufactured in the house: and some were at work as masons and labourers, in this great building.

Over the work-rooms is the great belli or dormitory> the room for boys, and the infirmary. The dormitory is lightsome, airy and clean', and appears evidently to be an improvement on that of San Michele at Rome. I therefore insert the plan of

One loaf was equal to the daily allowance of two prisoners j it was divided into two equal parts with an engine» and each received his own portion every day.

f The late Count <U Firnian, governor of Lombardy* whose amiable character is well known to our English travellers* not only honoured me with the plan, but favoured me with every advantage for examining the prisons.

Milan.

Hot-si

or

Correction.

R

this

122

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Milas

House

or

CoKtsc-

TIOS.

Hospitals.

Tens

Citadel.

this also. It consists of a great room (one hundred and twenty-four feet by thirty-one). On each fide of this room or hall are three (tone galleries, two feet eight inches wide, with iron rails. The chambers are numbered, amounting to one hundred and twenty: these are all similar, nine feet two inches by eight feet two; they have one window outward, three feet by two; and one towards the great room, two feet five inches by one foot five: they arc furnished with a bed and bedding, a (tool, and a vault. In the infirmary, and the dormitory for boys, as well as in the great hall, there were (tone finks and water laid in Near the end of the room there is an altar with a cupola over it. On one fide of the altar is the dormitory for boys, and on the other the infirmary. And all together make the figure of a cross, which is the form of many hospitals in Italy and other Roman catholic countries.

There were near three hundred prisoners in this house; twenty of whom were chained to two benches in the dormitory, but at the same time employed in (pinning, or making and mending clothes.—Adjoining to the work-rooms there are two or three rooms for warchoules. All the prisoners work in irons.

In visiting the great Hospital, my expectations, which had been too much raised by the accounts of travellers, were disappointed. Molt of the wards are on the ground-floor, and not lofty, as there are rooms over them. They are also dirty and ofienfive, though provided with (pacious drains. They have a middle row of beds, and in many of the beds were two patients: but care was taken to separate the patients in fevers from those who were attended by surgeons.—Molt of the chirurgical patients had been wounded in sudden quarrels or assaults.

The Hejpital of S. Gie £ Dio exhibits that deanliness and attention, which this fraternity always discovers.

In the Hospital for orphans, called La Stella, the mark and bed-rooms were spacious, neat and agreeable. There were three hundred girls in it; whole employment was making lace on road pillows. I wished them a more healthy employment, and that they had used the /quart pillows of Flanders j for conllant Hooping must be prejudicial. Such as are thus employed are generally of a pale and sickly complexion.

I might farther take notice of the great Lazaretto at Milan, the medical lociety for giving medicines to the poor, and Prince Triulzi’s hospital for eighty aged men, and the fame number of aged women. But I mull: hasten to

Turin. In the Citadel there were one hundred and seventy in irons; some had the half-chain, others were chained two and two together. These prisoners con-

1 make an apology for being (o minute in mv description of prisons in England, and may I not make tke lame apology for the minotecds in my accounts of foreign prisons and hospitals. I ihoald never have given myself the trouble of taking the dimensions of rooms, were it not that I hoped to give a clearer idea of the buildings, and that perhaps foae hints might be derived for the improvement of oar own.

tinue

Sect. IV. GENEVA.

titille always unemployed, till they are sent to the galleys at Villa-Franca. Their unhealthy countenances bespoke the little attention paid to them.—In this prison there was a chamber for convalescents, who not being fit for labour, are continued here forty days before they are sent to the galleys.

In the great Hospital of S. Giovanni there were a multitude of old men and women, whose apartments had a very improper communication with the wards of the sick and dying.

In the Hospital of Ld Carita, there were about two thousand inhabitants, mostly boys and girls.

Here also is an Hospital for Imatits, where, with pain I saw wards crowded with beds, and in some of the beds miserable creatures chained and raving.

Chamberry. Here the salutary practice of walhing the prison was adopted.— Besides an allowance of good bread, the prisoners are often supplied with bread and soup, and in winter with clothes and coverlets by a charitable society of ladies. In one of the rooms I saw chains; but was told they had not been used since the walls had been built high. A difinal torture-chamber into which day-light never enters, makes a part of this prison.

Before the Cantons, I will mention, what is not indeed any part of Switzerland, the little Republic of

G E N E V A.

IN the Prison, which was formerly the bishop’s palace, at my first visit, there were only five criminals; none of them in irons. Their allowance about six-pence a day: for which they have a pound of good bread, some ibup, and half a pint of wine. They looked healthy. Here, as in the Swiss Cantons, men and women are kept separate. For some years past, no capital punishment. If a criminal flies from justice, they call him in form three days j and after trial, execute him in effigy.

There seldom are any debtors. A creditor mult allow his debtor in prison as much as felons have from the public: upon failure, the gaoler gives notice, and then discharges the prisoner. Besides, there are Sumptuary laws in this state. And though the government is in general mild, there is a severe law against bankrupts, and insolvents; which renders incapable of all honours, and deprives of freedom, not only the debtor himself, but his children after him: except such of them as pay their quota of the debts.*

123

Tvrih.

Hospitals.

Cham-

DERRY.

Geneva.

See Edits it la Republique de Gtntva, 1735.

R 2

At

124

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Geneva.

Switzer-

land.

At my tail visit, there were two debtors, and five other prisoners; to whom great attention was paid, as they were then laying new floors in the lower rooms, left they should be damp and injurious to their health.*

In the bem/e tfttneBion there were no prisoners.

SWITZERLAND.

In entering Switzerland from Geneva, a traveller will be furpriled to meet frequently with a gallows on the road, if he be not informed that almost every seigneurie or bailiwick has a prison, and pofieiles the power of trying criminals, and capitally convicting the m. I visited one of these prisons. It belonged to Mr. Baron de Prangins, and consisted of four rooms at the top of his castle.j- It was empty.

In those of the Cantons to which I went, [tins have each a room to themselves, “ that they may not,” said the keepers, “ tutor one mother.” None were in irons: they are kept in rooms more or less strong and lightsome, according to the crimes they are charged with. But the prisons are in general very strong. The rooms are numbered, and the keys marked with the fame numbers. In most of them a German fiove. The common allowance, Gx-pence a day. In several Cantons there were no prisoners of this fort. The principal reason of it is, the great care that is taken to give children, even the poorest, a moral and religious education. Another thing which contributes to the fame intention, is the laudable police of speedy justice. A criminal has notice of his death, not the manner of it, but a short time before he is to suffer: and he is then indulged with his choice of food, wine, &c. Women are not hanged, but beheaded. Every new executioner has a new (word; and in the arienal at Bern I saw several old ones hung up in order. In the houses of correction, many of the prisoners were women; whom I saw at work.

The most numerous prisoners are the gaUey-Jbves , improperly so called, for there are no galleys belonging to Switzerland: though forne few are font to Marseilles.

I hoped to bare fooood here no torture-chambers, bat I had only the pleasure to hear that none had 1 offered in them these twenty-five years. They are thus retrained by the thirty-second article in the Reglemeat de TiUmfire Mediation pour la Pacification des troubles de la Repullique de Geneve, published in 1738. " Let atenjes ft Criminals at fomrrOKt etn appliques a la Quefitca ou Tjrture, que prealablement ils

n’fyetl etc par jngametf defistitifi, aadamaes a mart.”

t I cbferred the fame thing at the cattle in the isle of Gorgona in Italy* where there are two rooms zi the top of the building lor pnJons. This is different from the ancient cruel mode of confining rnfoneis ic pits and dungeons of cattle*.

At

B K H N

C. ‘ ///

/: C'sMtMa/t.

/r'mw

mii a u

Sect. IV.

SWITZERLAND.

125

At LAUSANNE I viflted the prison, in which there were at that time no prisoners. Lausanne. There were dungeons; but on entering each of them, the keeper observed, that we were not yet upon the ground, but there were cellars underneath.—On converting with Dr. Tijfet, he expressed his surprise at our gaol-distemper; said, “ I should not find it in Switzerland: ” and added, that “ he had not heard of its being any where but in England.” When I mentioned the late act of parliament for preserving the health of our prisoners, he approved of it highly, especially the clause which required vibite-washing the rooms, and keeping them clean.—I did not (as the doctor said) find ,the gaol-fever in Switzerland.

At Freyburc, there were no prisoners in the two towers; one of which is called Freyburc. La Tour Mauvaise, probably from the close rooms of confinement (eight feet by fix, and fix feet high) and the excruciating engines of torture kept there.—In' the house of correttioa there were thirteen men, and seven women; the former are employed abroad in cleaning the streets. See. the latter in spinning. They have soup twice a day; meat only three times a year; viz. Christmas, Easter, and Whitsuntide.

I revisited all the prisons at Bern, but here also I found none confined except in Bern. the two houses of correction. One of these ’houses is for citizens, in which the men and women were spinning, for they never work abroad.

In the other (the Schallenbaus) thete were, in 1776, one hundred and twenty-four slaves; and in 1778, one hundred and forty-one. They have not each a room to themselves; but there is some distinction of the more and less criminal, both in their rooms and work.* The women’s wards are totally separate from those of the men. Moil of the men are employed in cleaning and watering the streets, and public walks; removing the rubbish -of buildings; and the snow and ice in winter. The city is one of the cleaned I have seen. Four or five are chained to a finall waggon, and draw; others, more at liberty, sweep, load, &c. As the employment of the men convicts abroad is lomewhat similar to their employment at Milan, I give a representation of it from a draught taken by a painter in this city: I have also given a view of the employment of the women, though I deteft the custom of daily exposing that sex to such ignominy and severity, unless, when they are totally, abandoned, and have loft all the foster feelings of their sex. The convicts are known by an iron cottar, with a hook projecting above their heads: weight about five pounds: I saw one riveted on a criminal in about two minutes.

They work in summer from leven to eleven, and from one to fix; in winter from

An old keeper having left the door of one of the men’s wards unlocked, twelve prisoners fotced the outer door and walked oft'; the people who happened to fee them, suffering them to pass, because. they supposed they were going to work in the streets. When four or five of them some time after were retaken and carried to their old lodgings, the magistrates ordered that they should act he pumped, considering that every one null be desirous of regaining liberty. As they had not been guilty of .’Hindi or violence in making their escape, the punifttment fell on the heeper for his negligence.

eight

n6

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Be*. eight to eleven, and from one to four. I asked the men, “ Whether they would choose to work so, or be confined within doors?” “ Much rather,” they said, “ work /has.” The less criminal are in separate wards: these work within doors, Ipinning, &c. in a large room; and have not the iron collar.* Fifteen I was forty to foe miserable for want of employment.-)- The prison is not commodious, nor kept very clean. The daily allowance, two pounds of bread; and twice a day a pint and half of soup, made of barley, beans, &c. which they fetch from the great hospital. In their leisure hours they make and mend fooes, make straw hats, &c. and deliver them as they pass on at work. They are not fullered to practise gaming of any for^ Indeed this is forbidden to all the common people; as playing for any considerable sum is to those of higher rank. The keeper and turnkey are to fee that the prisoners perform their devotions every morning and evening. The chaplains pray with them and instruct them on Sunday and Thursday. Once a month other clergymen superintend the forvice. No visitant admitted on Sunday. Thus a principal object here is to make them better men.

Great care is to be taken of the lick. No folding place to be kept in this house of correction, f he keeper is strictly forbidden to fell the prisoners wine, brandy, or other provisions; and required entirely to forego any such emolument. The bedding and clothing are minutely described, both as to quality and value. I have . a copy of all the orders, twenty-seven in number, dated March 14, 1741. These which 1 have mentioned may serve for a specimen.

In La Prison Ordinaire, some rooms are planked all round. Eight of them are very close and strong. Doors of oak two inches and a half thick, plated with iron; three hinges, a lock and two padlocks. In a closet, were the clothes of a person that was murdered, kept to confront the guilty when apprehended: and some stolen goods, to be owned. A criminal who can pay is allowed to expend 7 batz 2 creutzers, about a {Killing daily, for two meals of soup and good bread. To one that is poor, the government allows half that sum. To all who are condemned, they allow a shilling a day for eight days before they fufier. These allowances are specified on a paper hung up in the gaol. There also hangs up a serious exhortation concerning the awful nature of an oath; and the forms of sundry oaths to be taken. I procured copies of the whole, but will transcribe only one oath, as follows :—“ Ma deposition, dent letture " nta etc faite a present, je la confirme droant la face du Din tout puijfant, tout-faebant et

I saw them bring in their week’s work, and (after it was examined) receive twenty-seven pounds of Sax for the following week. At that time fame of the town’s people purchased the Sax that had been fpon. and paid for it to an iwfpttbir who lives near the prison.

t Some employment is absolutely necessary; and therefore, where the crimes are of such a nature ns to allow or require inJmtgrnce. it fltoold be given them by n shorter term of con fine men t, or in fomc other way. f hare feeo this faSJi iBjxlgtnc* to prisoners in several places.

vray.

Sect. IV. SWITZERLAND.

" vray, pour eontenir la verite, a'mfi jue je deftre jue Dieu me Joit en aide fur la fa de mes "jours. Sans dol ni fraude."—“ My deposition, which has now been read to me, I “ confirm before the face of God omnipotent, omniscient and true, to contain the “ truth, as I desire that God may be my help at the end of my days. Without “ deceit or fraud.” Petjury, I was told, is very uncommon among them.*

In this city I had some discourse with the great Dr. Haller. He ascribed the sickness in English gaols to their being over-crowded.

At Solothurn, the prison (dated 1756) is built of a fort of marble from a quarry near the town. Many of the stones are fix feet by two or three, and above a foot thick. The gaoler said, “ he always took off the irons from criminals that came to him chained hands and feet. ” There are fifteen rooms about nine feet square, and eight feet high; with a coach roof. The partition walls are all of the fame fort of marble; the window is in the upper part of the wall, two feet by fix inches: German stoves in mod of the rooms. For those guilty of less heinous crimes, there are rooms cot quite so strong, and more lightsome. Allowance, a pound of bread, and twice a day soup.

The magistrates thought a constantSupply of water within the prison-walls so needful, that although there is a fountain in the street about ten yards from the prison-door, they have placed another in the court.

At Basil, the gaol for felons is in one of the towers. No prisoners; but many rooms ready with clean draw and blankets. Each prisoner (they said) has a room to himself, in which he is condantly shut up, except when conduced to the council-chamber for examination. One of the dronged cells is in a room by the great clock, and is about fix feet high: the (trap) door is in the flat roof: the prisoner goes down by a ladder, which is then taken up: his victuals are put in at a wicket on one fide. When I was in the room, and took notice of the uncommon drength of it, the gaoler told me a prisoner had lately made his escape from it. I could not devise what method he took, but heard it was this. He had a spoon for soup, which he fliarpened to cut out a piece from the timber of his room: then by practice he acquired the knack of driking his door, jud when the great clock druck, which drowned the noise: and in fifteen days he forced all the bolts, &c. But attempting to let himself down from the vad height by a rope which he found, the rope failed him j and by falling he broke so many of his bones, that the surgeons pronounced

Will it need an apology if the mode of publishing the assize of bread in this city be just mentioned ? It is better than that at Vienna, and several other cities. In the middle of the window of every baker’s Ihop is hung up in foil view, the bill on pasteboard, specifying the weigh and price of three different sorts of bread, and, at the bottom, that of the line rolls, The bills are Gened by the magistrates’ focretaty. If the price continues the fame the following month, the secretzry notes it on all the bills. I copied one of these bills, and purchased the different sorts of bread, which I found to be full or rather ever weight. The prices were, white bread, i lb. live crevtxerj; boufebold, 1 lb. four crcutzers and a quarter; irewu bread, I lb. three creutzers and ^quarter (a ereutzer is near a halfpenny).

his

Berk.

Solo*

THURN.

Basil.

28

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Basil.

/ e*icH.

vh *ff-

?AC5£S.

his recovery impoJHble. Buc his bones were let; and with proper care he did recover, and was pardoned.

At Zurich there is a Prifai for capital crimes ((ituated in the middle of the river) i* and a Hause of cerreSion, formerly a convent. In the latter, which is convenient and ipacious, there were about sixty prisoners. Nineteen of the men worked abroad for the citizens, who paid them for their work, but not so much as to other labourers. The rest were (pinning within doors, or working at iome trade. I observed one ingenious woman colouring botanical prints.—-They have a chapel, in which they attend divine worship, and are catechiled every Friday. Once a day, such of them as do not work abroad, by the advice of one of the physicians in this city, walk under arcades in a large Iquare court, during which time their rooms are thoroughly aired, the doors and windows being thrown open. They have good bedding ;f and they are well liipplied with wheaten bread and soup every day, but no meat.

The prisoners, on entrance, have the beufe clothes; and their own are hung up, with their names, and the time of their commitment, noted upon them.—On inquiring of one of the magistrates, if they banished any of their criminals ? he seemed surprised at the question, and alked, if I did not fee in the mountains many manu-factories

Schaffhacsen: I found no prisoners here except three in the house of corrt&ion. From further consideration of the excellent manner in which houses of correction are conduced in this country, as well as at Bremen, Hamburg, Holland, See. by regents or inspectors, whose motive for attending to their duty cannot be large falnrics j £ I am 1HI1 more confirmed in the opinion I before advanced ("page 36.) that

no mercenary nieces should be held forth to the persons to whom such an important trust is committed. Nor can I doubt, that in our own country, as well as abroad, men might readily MMbund, who merely from a sense of duty, and love to humanity

and their country, would faithfully and diligently execute such an office, with no other reward than the approbation of their fellow-citizens, and of their own consciences. In fa&, we find, that there is no want of respectable persons among 11s, to undertake the government of hospitals and houses of indujhy upon these principles.

Here was only oae prisoner. The nrS room was for examination; in it were five different weights for torture, and if we may depend on tradition, the heaviest, which is one hundred and twenty pounds, was used in tenuring a bargemafier of this city.

t A salutary caftom of bringing out the beds in fine weather, I fee practised in fomc of the bell h: e fes in thi, country; which is not properly attended to in £ngland.

7 “ The salaries of the several magistrates are so inconsiderable, as not to offer any temptation on ‘ the fide of pecuniary emolument: a sense of honour, a spirit of ambition, the desire of serving their ‘ country, together with that personal credit which is derived from exercising any office in the ‘ administration, are the principal motives which actuate the candidates to solicit a share in the

* nagirtracy.Mr. Ctxe'j Sieteber of S’lvijfcrlxtxd; f. 463.

GERMANY.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

129

GERMANY.

From Switzerland I- returned to Germany in 1778. in order to visit fame prisons which I had not seen in my former journies, particularly those in the free or Imperial

Cities.

At Augsburg, the prison is on the fide of a hill, at the back of the town-house. Augsburg. It consists of many cachets or small rooms, on three different floors. There is one for examination, and two for the engines of torture. There are also two dark dungeons for such as have been convicted of witchcraft: but they are in a very ruinous condition, and seem to have been a long time without inhabitants.—The condemned arc brought three days before their execution into two light rooms, which open into a Roman catholic chapel: where, however, if a prisoner be a Protestant, a Lutheran minister is permitted to attend him.

The House of correction consists of buildings on two sides of a spacious court: one fide for those of the Roman catholic religion, and the other for Protestants, with a chapel for each. The rooms were all clean, and are white-washed every year.

Opposite to the front windows in most of the rooms, were high windows, of a semi-circular form, which were designed for promoting a circulation of air.

At Munich or Munchen, there are two prisons for criminals. One, in the Munich. town-house, had in it fix men and two women prisoners.* In a dark damp dungeon down seventeen steps, were the instruments of torture.

The other. La Prison de la Cour, consisted of about fifteen cells, twelve feet by l'even, and a black torture-room. In this room there is a table covered with black doth and fringe. Six chairs for the magistrates and secretaries, covered also with black cloth, are elevated two steps above the floor, and painted black. Various engines of torture, some of which are stained with blood, hang round the room.

When the criminals suffer, the candles are lighted; for the windows are (hut close, to prevent their cries being heard abroad. Two crucifixes are presented to the view of the unhappy objects. But ic is too (hocking to relate their different modes of cruelty. Even women are not spared.f

In

Once a year, viz. on All-faints day, any persons are permitted to enter and fee the prison.

There is a custom similar to this in Holland, at the fair time.

f This room feezns much like the torture-room in Spain, described in Limbercb's Hijicry of tht Inquisition, iranflated by Chandler, vol. II. page 221, 4W. edit. It was a large under-ground room,

' S arched.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Mvmcfr.

Hoshtals.

Ratiseos.

NcK£K-

ICIC.

In the bciift of cornBin were about forty men and thirty women; some weaving wide cloth, but most of them spinning. The keeper ordered his servant to attend me with charcoal and frankinccnlc; a certain sign of negligence and inattention, which the countenances of the prisoners confirmed.

I was agreeably relieved from the pain excited by these seenes, with the view of the two Hejpitah of Les Frerei and Lei Sears de Charite. In the former were about forty beds; in the latter, twenty: the wards were about twenty-six feet wide. All was neat and clean, still and quiet; and the great attention paid to the patients was every where apparent. I saw the operation of bleeding performed by the mm with great dexterity and tendemefs. Over the foot of each bed a text of Scripture was inscribed, as far some Italian hospitals.

The prison at Ratisbon or RegcHjbtrg, is in the town-house. Many of the y chambers are airy, and most of them have stoves. There are no dungeons, but three dark cellars for torture, at which two senators, their secretary, and the hangman with his valets assist. At Munich and moll other places, a surgeon also attends; but I heard of no liich custom here.

At the back of the orphan-house (in which were twenty boys and fifteen girls) is the bat/ie of corrcBion; here I found only two women.

At Nure.vbubg, the prison is under the town-house. There are fifteen steps down to the gaoler’s kitchen. The apertures for admitting light into the passages of the dungeons, are level with the ground. This is one of the worst prisons I ever saw. The dark unhealthy dungeons, and the difinal torture-chamber,* do no honour to the magistracy of this city.—The gaoler makes use of a low trick to prevent the escape of his prisoners, by terrifying them with the apprehensions of falling under the power of witches. In several of the German gaols there are dungeons for those that arc accused of witchcraft, but they seem to have been long difuled; and I hope increasing light and good sense will loon entirely banish the fears of witches, and consequendy the mtebes themselves.

In one of the citj-tmaers in which lunatics arc confined, there are three or four rooms for criminals of higher rank.

'* arched, and the walls corned with black hangings. The candleilicks were fattened to the wail, “ and the whole non enlightened with candles placed in them.—The inquisitor and notary fat at " a table, so that the place seemed as the very mansion of death, every thing appearing lo terrible “ and awful. ”

In this chamber on the wall is inscribed a gingling verse, which I here insert, as perhaps no traveller bat myself has ever fecn it:

Ai uotn pair ala. bee jwat atra tbralra parole.

753-

Over

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

Over the gate of the House of Correction at Nurcnburg is this inscription:

Hie criminum frequentia Mortalium dementia Cmpefcitur dementia Saha fortJententia.

The prisoners were employed in grinding spectacle-glasses. The surplus of what they earn above forty ereutzers, or eighteen pence a week each, they are allowed for themselves. The men grind seven glasses in each hand. Some grind four hundred in a week, by which they earn fifty-two ereutzers at thirteen for a hundred, and consequently each earns for himself twelve ereutzers a week.* Some of the women were working gold and silver lace on culhions.

At Schwabach, in the margraviate of Anfpach, is a large house of correction, in which were ninety-three prisoners. Some men here also were grinding glasses in two large rooms; and others, in different apartments,.were employed in polishing steel buttons for clothes, wire-drawing, and making spinning-wheels: and I was informed

that twelve were at work on the road. The women were Ipinning, the daily talk injoined to each was fix ereutzers, or two pence halfpenny.

Such prisoners as have been publicly whipped are called infama, and are distinguished from the rest, by having a particular place appropriated to them in the chapel, and by being made the last in receiving the sacrament. The chaplain resides in the house.

This house was clean, and well regulated. The gaoler readily supplied me with a book, containing an account of the regulations, See. in which are some liberal and sensible remarks that appear worth transcribing.

It is observed, that “ there is great error in expelling that a house of this kind “ should be able to maintain itself-, since with the strictest ceconomy, a considerable “ annual Jam will be found necessary for its proper support.”

' The greatest attention to cleanliness is inculcated; bathing-rooms are provided for the prisoners; and the expence of wafbing for them is reckoned an object not to be regarded.—The necessity for ftek wards for both sexes is pointed out.

It is remarked to be “ a very false notion, that a man who lives upon bread and water can work hard and be kept in health; ” accordingly, as will be seen in the table subjoined, a daily allowance of hot provisions is ordered for the criminals.

It is mentioned as an essential point to preserve order, and prevent abuses, " that “ one of the city magistrates should every week in rotation visit the house, and clofelv “ inspect every thing relative to its management.”

That this is a very unhealthy business, is evident from the countenances of those whom I saw thus employed, and from the disagreeable sensations I always received from the dull in the rooms where they were grinding. The medical gentlemen preicribe bleeding and physic to these persons, two or three times a year.

S 2 The

*3*

Nvnut-

BURG

House

of

Connie-

Tion.

Schwa-

BACH*

FOREIGN PRISONS.

>32

Sch*«. The account of the daily allowance to the prisoners was hung up in the dining-bach. room.*

Bat- In a large Htufe of correBion near Bayreuth, in Franconia, the men were all beuth. working on marble, which is found in the neighbouring mountains.— Many were employed at the polilhing bench, two on each flab. Others were variously engaged, in finishing, filing, or carving -, or in cutting proofs or iamples at the wheels; or in working on tobacco-boxes, snuff-boxes, &c. A large warehouse contained the goods they had finished.—Some specimens of the several forts of the marble I brought home.—In summer, many of them are employed in sawing without doors; but in winter, they work in rooms: for were they to attempt this work abroad, a sudden frost might endanger the materials, but would certainly render it impossible to use the saw. The pale countenances of the prisoners were a sign that their work was laborious, and that the keeper had the whole profit.

My ingenious friend and colleague, the late Dr. Fother gill, proposed a scheme of this kind for the employment of our convicts, and pointed out many of the advantages which might attend the execution. It was printed in the Gazetteer, Sept. 30, 1776.

Regulations of the daily bat provisions for those prisoners who are set to bard labear in the house of correction at Schwabach.

Senders. In the Jnmmer months, half a pound of beef with half a pint of greens.

And in the rveniag, a pint of fonp with eight oonces of bread.

In the winter months, half a pound of meat with a pint oT four krone.

And in the rstming, a pint of fonp with eight oonces of bread.

’Mondays. In Gammer, dumplings of wheaten floor.

And in winter, pease.

Taefdajs. In Jammer, pease and peeled barley.

In witter, tornips, or potatoes.

JTtdmJdays. In Jammer and winter, boiled millet.

Thar (days. In Jammer, batter fonp.

In winter, sweet cabbage.

Fridays. In Jammer, dumplings of wheaten floor.

In winter, potatoes $ and in the evening, fonp with floor.

Sutmrdeys. In Jammer, pease.

And in winter, pease and peeled barley.

Farther. Unto each of the said prisoners in the evenings, better; and duly, two pounds of bread, and half a meafare of beer.

For those who are pat to fight film- the diet is similar, except that each has only a pound and a

half of bread daily, and no batter or beer; and on Mondeys and Fridays, they have frumenty gruel,

iaflead of dumplings.

To vagrants, and those who earn their bread by fight labour.

Sanders. Dumplings and loop for supper.

Wedmjdmys. Millet boiled in milk.

On the other days, no hot vidnals.

To each daily, one pound and three quarters of bread.

The

Sect. IV. GERMANY;

The women were spinning worded, and appeared objects of companion. Their dirty rooms, sickly looks, and cutaneous complaints, evidently bespoke inattention and neglect.*

In the House of correction at Wurtzburc were fifty-four men and thirty-six women, employed in a well-regulated woollen manufactory. In one part of the house they were spinning; in another, picking and carding wool; and in Mother, yreaving wide cloth for the soldiers, and also docking and waidcoat pieces. The wheels were larger than our spinning-wheels, the diameter being four feet. Here, and at mod houses of this fort, are large looms, fix feet seven inches wide, and two persons work at each loom. In a warehouse, the manufacturer (for all such houses have a manufacturer) thewed me several pieces of cloth for the under officers, the artillery, the soldiers, and the hospital or poor-house. The women were all spinning or carding in one large room. As their spinning was of various kinds, there was a room with cupboards, where each person’s work was laid up separately. The talk for each man or woman was eight creutzers, or three pence halfpenny a day. Here is a Roman catholic chapel, and the pried lives in the house.—Roman catholic prisoners are sometimes sent hither from other countries, for their term of confinement, as those of a different persuasion are sent to Bayreuth.

At Hanau, the galley-slaves (so called) are didinguished into bounites and deshonnetes. The former are condemned for three, four, seven, nine, fourteen years, according to their crimes; but the term is sometimes ffiortened on account of good behaviour. These wear a brown uniform; and a small chain from the girdle to one leg. The latter are such as have committed capital offences. These wear a white coat

e

I hare a book of the regulations: but of what advantage are the bell rules when not enforced? It may be of use, however, to give fomc idea of the nature of these regulations, which seem, on the whole, well planned. After mentioning that the two sexes are to be kept separate, and also the bounties from the infastus; a chapter is given, treating on the Means of CoaaecTiON, under three heads.

1. Religious inJlruSion, in which the Chaplain's duty is amply laid down. He is to read prayers twice a day, preach and catechise on Sundays, and employ the moil solemn and earned exhortations occasionally.

2. Labour. Idleness being juilly considered as the source of moil vices, great attention is paid to a conilant employment of the prisoners. The nature of this employment has been mentioned in the text; but I think it proper to quote one observation from the book of regulations, which is, that if is of advantage to have part of the work of a kind that any person, though incapable of the common labour, may be employed in it. Such is the turning of a wheel, which even a blind man may perform.

3. The various punishments of the refratiory.

A subsequent chapter treats on Diet, Clothing, and Cleanliness. The allowance is two pounds of wholesome bread daily, and something hot for dinner. Meat only on a few holidays. For the Tick, there is an addition of four pfennings a day for board. All the money, however, is paid to the beeper, who finds the provisions. Concerning eleanline/s it is observed, that the want of it not only occasions diseases of the body, but also tends to the corruption and dtbafemtnt of the mind.

133

Bav-

IIUTH.

Wt/KTZ-

BVXG.

Hanav.

with

>3+

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Has*it. with one blackfleeve; and have a chain from the girdle to both legs: they never work out of the town; and are put to the most laborious and disagreeable employments in it. The hours of work for both forts are, in Cummer, from five to eleven, and from one to fix: in winter, as the weather and length of days permit. Allowance, from ift of April to Michaelmas, two pounds and a half of bread a day: from Michaelmas to April, two pounds: and each man about two pence a day: and from a charity they have half a florin (about twelve pence halfpenny) a month. They are constantly visited by a deputy from the regency, who makes his report to the colonel every morning: and the colonel conveys it to the young prince, when he rclides at Hanau. Of his kindnds to them, the prisoners seemed duly fenlible; and they spoke with grateful respect of the attention shewed them by the amiable Princess his dcceaied mother, whose memory will be long revered in that country.

I alked more than one of the bennetes who were at work on the road, whether they liked to be thus employed, or would choose to be confined in idleness? They readily anforered, “ Much rather be thus abroad at work.” On Saturday afternoon, these (weep the bridges, the entrances to the town, &c. They have a guard of four (bldiers (bayonets fixed) a subaltern, and the keeper. This is the guard, be the number of (laves more or lets: when I saw them, they were from ten to twelve.

At fix in the evening, in summer-time, they bring all their tools into a room in the prison, and go to their chambers: the dejhonnUes on the ground-floor; the bometes above. But in this prison there is not a separate room for each man; as in those to which they were at first committed. Each Have has, besides the clothes above-mentioned, two pair of shoes; two pair of dockings; and two shirts. AH are obliged to attend divine service on Sunday. The men, on my repeated visits, looked healthy.

The dejbemeles are not doomed to despair: but for good behaviour are sometimes promoted to the rank of bometes. I converted with one, whom I found very cheerful for a late advancement of that kind: in consequence of it, he was working on the road.

There is another Prison, La Tour de Margueretta: so called from the first person confined in it. It has four rooms on each of the two floors; but they were all empty.

Caslel At Cassel, there is also a Prison for galley-slaves under similar management, Pusgss. hur not so well conducted. One circumstance struck me as worthy of remark. In a new church just built, there is a gallery with two separate (eats for the bonnetes and dejbometes; though the whole number, when I was there, was only seventeen.

Here is also a large Heuse of correBion, with a work-room one hundred and ten feet by twenty-five, and twelve feet high. It was built by Charles, grandfather to the present Landgrave. I shall not, however, enter into a minute detail of the

discipline

Sect. IV.

GERMANY.

discipline in this house, as many others are better conduced; and the account of them is more particular.

At Francfort (on the Maine) there are five Prisons. One is for debtors, where I found only three, who were alimented at ten creutzers, about four pence a day, payable by their creditors.

The Prison called La Tour de St. Catharine was empty. Here is a lightsome room, to which criminals are generally brought from the great guard prison, just before their execution. The men are hanged, and the women beheaded; but executions are very rare in this city.

In the House of torression (near the work-house) were three prisoners, two women and a man. The man was at work with two or three others in the court, beating to powder a porous stone, which is worked up with water, and makes, when dry, a hard cement or coat of plaster. The two women were employed in the work-hou!e.

At Manheim, Monsieur Bah, counsellor to the regency, very politely gave orders to shew me every room of Li Maison de Force. Prisoners committed to this house are commonly received in form with what is called the bien-venu (welcome). A machine is brought out, in which are fattened their neck, hands, and feet. Then they are Itripped; and have, according as the magistrate orders—the grand vend of twenty to thirty ftripes—the detni vend of eighteen to twenty—or the petit vend of twelve to fifteen: after this they kiss the threihold and go in Some are treated with the fame compliment at discharge. The like ceremony is observed at many other towns in Germany.

The house was clean. Fifty-two men, and forty-nine women in several rooms: all at work j either at their own trades, as shoe-makers, tailors, weavers, lapidaries j or atone of the manufactures of the house; which-are coarse cloth and cards. Not one idle. They have but little time to earn any thing for themselves: yet though they work entirely for the house, their labour does not maintain it.

The rules and orders are good. I have a copy of them. The two last are to this effect. nth. As it is of the utmost importance in such houses as this, to observe all possible cleanliness , it is required of all persons to watch most ftriCUy against all appearance of the contrary. Whoever fees the least offence of that kind, shall give immediate notice of it to the inspector, upon pain of close confinement on bread and water, and the most rigorous chaftisement. 12th. That no one may be able to pletd ignorance of the rules, one copy of them shall be given to every prisoner, and another bung up in his room; and they shall be read publicly every Sunday morning after divine service. It is ordered that the disobedient be punished , and that encouragement be given to the dutiful and diligent.

The doors are all numbered , and the keys marked with the corresponding number. Allowance to most of the men, two pounds of bread, soup, and a quart of good beer; and, except in Lent, half a pound of meat. Women have a pound and half of bread:

other

135

Franc-

fort

Prisons.

Man.

HEIM.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

M.i-

fiEIM.

STtAS-

BCftC.

Mectz

Prisons.

other articles as the men. The iick are indulged -with white bread, veal, &c. They have all of them clean linen once a week: it is washed by the women prisoners. The keeper makes, every morning, a report to Monlieur Sabo of the Hate of the house as to numbers, health, &c.

A capuchin fays mass in the chapel every morning. There is a gallery for men: another for women, with a blind before it: another for orphans, of whom there are fixry-four in a fort of hospital at one end of the prison. Protestants and Jews are ordered to their private devotions: the latter ate excused from working on their sabbath.

At Strasburc, in one of the five towers were three debtors: they infijrmed me that they were alimented by their creditors; that they had two pounds of good bread a day, and soup equally good.—1 was much pieased to find so much of a liberal spirit prevail in this city, that in the hospital there were separare chambers for Lutherans, in which they were allowed the attendance of their own ministers.

At Mestt, I11 Parte de Fer for felou is five stories high: two rooms on a floor: a spacious landing-place in the middle, with opposite windows, for circulation of air. The rooms are double-floored with oak plank, foil two inches thick; and each room has two doors, only three feet nine inches high. These circumstances contribute much to security. On one fide the door is a finall iron wicket, to give in the -duly allowance; which is two pounds of bread, soup, and (except in Lent) a little meat. Only one prisoner is confined in each room, who has two blankets; and once in a fortnight, dean draw. This gaol (lands near the Rhine, and is not in the lead offensive.

In the House of cerreBien all was neat, and Ihewed the attention of the regency. On mv taking nocice to the keeper how clean his prison was, he said, “ How can it ct be otherwise, when we have ftrmany women prisoners ? Surely they must keep the house clean’’’ Mod of the flour in the city is ground at a mill in this prison; at which the delinquents work two hours in the morning, and two in the afternoon. Over the door is carved a waggon drawn by two flags, two lions, and two wild boars; with an inscription explaining the device, which is, that if even wild beads can be tamed to the yoke, we foould not despair of reclaiming irregular men. I saw the fame bass relief at one or two other houses of correction.

There is a separate prison for debtors. Id Porte du Poisson, near the fish-market: I (bund no prisoners in it. When there are any, they have daily at the creditor’s cod two pounds of bread, and about four pence in money.

Every prison at Mentz, has in each room, a German dove; which, in winter, is heated two or three times a day. Prisoners have clean linen once a week. On my taking notice to the brigadier of the police who went with me, how healthy his prisoners looked, he said that “ Some years ago, they were unhealthy; and the " regency removed them from the dungeons: upon which they recovered; and ever “ since we have had them remarkably healthy.” The dungeons are now totally difulcd.

It

Sect, IV.

GERMANY.

>37

It was hardly necessary to inquire if the prisons were inspected by proper officers. The keepers make a report every day to an attentive Lieutenant of the Police: and once in a fortnight the Cmtfeiller de Rigence, and the Secretaire and Conseiller dec Finances visit all the prisons; hear complaints; and inquire if clothes, or any thing necessary be wanting. None of the keepers fell liquor; but prisoners are allowed to lend out for a quart of beer a day. They are not permitted to have any spiritUOUS liquors.

In the tower at Cologn, there were no prisoners either for debt or for capital offences. In this and many other cities, the magistrates will not permit a debtor , who has no effeils to be confined.—This city has not the power of executing criminals; but when they are condemned, they are delivered up to an bigb officer of the eleSoPs, and confined in a dungeon in his house. I law one thus confined when I was here six years ago.

In the Haufie of correSion, the men were beating done to powder with small wooden mallets, as is practised at Francfort. The women were spinning, or knitting stockings.

At Wesel, which belongs to the King of Fruflia, there were ninety-eight Haves or convicts; they have a daily allowance of two pounds of bread, and when they work on the fortifications, or other public works, the value of three halfpence.

The great prison at Aix-la-Chapelle was unoccupied.

In the guard prison near the Maison de Ville there were two prisoners; one of whom was a very old man with irons on one hand, who was confined on fulpicion, and had twice suffered the torture to force a discovery of his confederates.

Executions are not frequent in this city.* Citizens are always executed by decollation, which is performed by the broad sword, as at Hamburg, Bern, &c. and not by a machine, as in some parts of Italy; nor by the axe, as in England, Denmark, &c.

The two prisons (distinguished by the names of the old and the netv) near 14 Porte de St. Leonard in Liege, are on the ramparts.—-In two rooms of the old prison I law fix cages made very strong with iron hoops, four of which were empty. (The dimensions were seven feet by fix feet nine inches, and fix feet and a half high. On one fide was an aperture of fix inches by four, for giving in the victuals). These were dismal places of confinement, but I soon found worse. In descending deep below ground from the gaoler’s apartments, I heard the moans of the miserable wretches in the dark dungeons. The Tides and roof were all stone. In wet weather, water from the fojfes gets into them, and has greatly damaged the boors. Each of them had two small apertures, one for admitting air, and another, with a Ihutter over it strongly bolted, for putting in food to the prisoners. One dungeon larger

In this and many other cities, the convict knows not of his execution, till three days before the time. Then he is coniiantly attended by his confeiTor, and indulged in the choice of food.

T

Mektz.

COI.OCN.

Wesel.

Aix--la-

Chapellp

Liege.

than

FOREIGN PRISONS.

treoi. than the rcfl was appropriated to the lick. In looking into this, with a candle, I discovered a stove, and felt some surprise at this little escape of humanity from the men who conftnided these cells.

The dungeons in the new prison are abodes of misery still more ihocking; and confinement in them lb overpowers human nature, as sometimes irrecoverably to take away the (enfes. I heard the cries of the distra&ed as I went down to them. One woman, however, I saw, who (as I was told) had sustained this horrid confinement forty-seven years without becoming distrafted.

The cries of the sufferers'in the torture-chamber may be heard by passengers without, and guards are placed to prevent them from flopping and listening.* A physician and surgeon always attend when the torture is applied j and on a signal given by a bell the gaoler brings in wine, vinegar and water to prevent the luflerers from expiring.—“ fbe tender mercies of the wicked are cruel" Thus in the Spanish inquisition, the physician and surgeon attend to determine the utmost extremity of fuflering without expiring under the tomire.-f I will only add, that in th:$ prison there are rooms appropriated to prisoners cnpenfitm; that is, to such as are confined by the magistrates, at the desire of their parents, guardians or relations. A shocking prafUce! which prevails also in some of the neighbouring countries.

- In the Maijen at Foret there were ninety prisoners, ranged in four rooms, and employed in a woollen manufactory of linings for soldiers clothes. Persons live in the house who well understand the business, and instrud the prisoners in sorting, carding, spinning, twisting and weaving. None of them were in irons. All had ieparate beds, and were supplied with good rye bread, meat three times a week, two quarts of beer for each, every day, and soup every otter day.

The chaplain, who lived in the house, favoured me with his company through the work-rooms, lodging-rooms, and the refcCtory. He entered into the true spirit of this institution, and lamented the inconvenience of the house, as not being built for the purpose to which it is applied. He took notice of the propriety of solitary confinement for those that were riotous and refractory at their first coming; for generally, he said, “ in four or five days they would become very trastable and submissive.”

Tie author of the HjJtery tf tie at Get tells as, cap. 23: “ I& the months of November

“ and December, I heard every day in the morning the cries and groans of those who were pat to

the Qacftion, which is so very crael, that I have seen several of both sexes who have been ever after " lame. In this tribunal they regard neither age nor sex, nor condition of persons, bat all without < distinfloon are tortured, when 'tis for the inteieft of this tribunal,”

f Sec CimaMer15 Trandation of Limierch'! WB. ef tie lnqmijitiem, vol. II. page zaa.

AUSTRIAN

FOREIGN PRISONS.

139

AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

Ik the Austrian Netherlands I found the prisons in general clean; and no sickness prevailing in any one of them: and yet few of the prisons have a court: in mod of them every prisoner is confined to his room. In some places, as at Antwerp, &c. the allowance to criminals is scanty j a pound and a half of bread a day, and a pound of butter a week: but the deficiency is fully made up by supplies from the monasteries, &c. Debtors very few: they are alimented by their creditors.

In the prison at Antwerp there are two rooms for citizens; and up stairs there Antwent. is a cage, about fix feet and a half square, into which criminals are put before the torture. A criminal, while he suffers the torture, is clothed in a long shirt, has his eyes bound, and a physician and surgeon attend him: and when a confession is forced from him, and wine has been given him, he is required to sign his confession j and about forty-eight hours afterwards he is executed.

In a finall dungeon is a (tone feat like some I have seen in old prison towers, in which it is said that formerly prisoners were Juffocated by brimstone, when their families wished to avoid the disgrace of a public execution. No person here remembers an inltance of this kind; but about thirty years ago there was a private execution in the prison. In this prison in 1778 there were only two prisoners.—In November 1781 there were three prisoners for debt; their allowance was three halfpence a day.

The Clergy have a Prison in this city which is an old tower, three stories high, to which persons who come under their cognisance for adultery, incest, &c. are committed.

June 1 j, 1783, there was not one.prisoner in this city.

In 1778 here was a House of correllion. The river ran under it; on one fide were House the keeper’s apartments; on the other, the warehouse and the room for the or magistrates.* On three sides of a paved court there were thirteen cells for the men, C“^“‘

and over them were the rooms for the women. On one fide of the court were the young women who were put in by their parents or relations; and on the other, the criminals. All the men were employed in spinning cotton; so were some of the women, and the rest in making lace. A pound of cotton at a time was delivered to

In foreign heu/ei ef arreBim there is a room appropriated to he use of the regents or magistrates, that they may the more conveniently inspect and transafl the affairs of the house.

T 2

each;

140

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Attwsrp

Hocse

o.

CottEC-▼ iojc.

each; for spinning which, thirteen Jous* were paid. I found, by the books, that at first coming, some did not cam more than seven or eight fous in a week, but soon after they earned from twelve to fourteen. Rye bread (to the value of half a fiiverf each meal) and water, was their allowance; and whatever they had more than this, they were required to pay for out of their earnings. They were obliged to put on clean linen every week, towards walking which each paid a fou. The stoves were heated twice a day, and candles and lamps were provided, at the expence of the magistrates.

There were three rooms for the ungovernable. One of them (the penitentiary room) had a floor made of pieces of wood lad edgeways four inches asunder. The prisoner was chained in the middle of this floor, so that he could move but a few steps; and being allowed no shoes or llockings, whether he flood or lay down, he must have been in a very uneasy posture. This room therefore was dreaded by the prisoners. The other rooms were abodes so dark and solitary, as to be almost equally dreadful.

The men were never fullered to go out, except on Sundays and other holydays, when they went to the chapel, in which they had feats below. The me men fat in a gallery, with a lattice of wood before them. Here, and allb in the prison, a table of regulations was hung up, which was read in public by the chaplain, the first Sunday after the entrance of every prisoner.—Thefe regulations consisted of thirty-six articles, from which I have taken the following extracts.

“ The prisoners must be submissive to the keeper and to his wife; and if they think themselves injured, must complain to the regents.—The times fixed for riling are, at half after fix in the morning from December ill to February 15th, and all the rest of the year at five, or half after five; but on Sundays and holydays ac fix.— The times of meals are fixed at seven, twelve, and seven. The prisoners are allowed, at their own expence, at breakfast a pint of tea; and at dinner soup or broth, or a pint of tea or small beer, and at supper the fame quantity of tea or beer; and on Sundays and other holydays a certain quantity of boiled meat: and every week a pound of butter, and fruit to the value of half a stiver.— Every day the keeper is obliged to prepare two forts of soup or broth, and at leven in the morning *0 give the prisoners their choice of either fort, or none.—After service on Sundays, the men are permitted to walk in the court, and the women in the gallery half an hour, under the inspection of the keeper and officers.—-They forfeit half a stiver, every time they curie or swear, or make a disturbance in the chapel; and also-every time they are not up in half an hour after they are awakened by the keeper, and for every hour they Deep longer.—If they persist in insulting the keeper or his wife after admonition, they pay a stiver, and are also punished by having their doors or windows fall closed up.—If they make any noise or disturbance after nine at night

A ft* is about a halfpenny.

f A fiiver is about a penny

to

Sect. IV. AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

to break the rest of their fettow-prisoners, they are ordered to forfeit a Jcbelling, and to be punished at the discretion of the regents: who are likewise empowered to make such alterations as they think proper in the roles: and in case of sickness or old age, to give indulgences to the prisoners, with respect to their diet, times of riling, &c.”— In November 1781 the regulations (till hung up in the chapel, though the prisoners were removed to Vilvorde.

The Hospital of St. Elizabeth has a lofty ward for each lex; yet, as the upper windows do not open, these wards are offeniive. The beams and joists are not plastered. The beds have no tetters; as all have (improperly) in the infirmaries in Holland.

In the Orpban-house the bed-rooms were large, and had opposite windows. The beds were laid on boards highly varnished, on iron bedheads (five feet eleven inches by three feet seven) and placed in the middle of the rooms that the windows may be kept open. The bed-rooms and refeftories were quite clean.

At Mechlik, one of the best rooms in the Prison is for debtors: but none in it. In 1778 there were three criminals up ttairs, and in 1781, five: no dungeons. Allowance, two threepenny loavesf End a pound of butter weekly: on Sunday a pound of meat, and some soup: three pints of small beer daily. Straw, and two blankets. Firing from the ift of November to the ift of May. Clean linen every week from a charity. The mode of torture; I will not describe; it has not been used of late years.

At Brussels, in 1778, there were twenty-four felons in the Prison La Porte de Halle, in twenty-four chambers (seven feet and a half by seven), distinguished by the letters of the alphabet. Each prisoner had a separate room: daily allowance, two pounds of bread (pain d'ammunition) and some soup: on Sunday, except in Lent, a pound of meat. A keeper of the house of correction was committed to this gaol for abuse of his trust. There were forty-nine prisoners, June 17, 1783. In some large rooms there were five or six men, and in one room at the top of the house ten women (vagrants). Here is no court-yard. The torture is not abolished: the gaoler told me he had seen a man suffering on the torture-stool for forty-eight hours.

Debtors are lent to another Prison ('freurcnbergh); the creditor is obliged to advance a month’s aliment. In 1778 I saw there an Englishmen, who had his wife and two or three children with him; but they were not permitted to stay at night.

At the gate De Laecben is the Bishop’s prison. On the first floor there is a chapel, uid a large hall with seven small rooms or rather cages with apertures to them.

A schdling is about six-pence.

t The prisoners have the choice of two sorts of bread. As the gaoler could not tell me the weight, I bought both forts in the city. A threepenny loaf of the hncll, weighed exactly three pounds, and of the other, four pounds ten ounces.

14*

Antwerp.

Hospital.

ORPHAN'

HOUSE.

Mechlin.

Brussels

Prisons.

Over

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Btvsscii

Prisons.

H0»PITAt.

\ II. V OR 3 L

Hoc i s or

CORREC-

TION.

Over these are fix rooms a little bigger for women. June 17, 1783, there were here no priibners.

At the gate D'Acderlecht there is a Pri/itm for petty offenders, who are committed for one or two, to six weeks. Their allowance one fou or a penny a day.

The Hospital of St. Jean for the lick is under the care of the Rdigieufe of S. AuptjHn. The wards were close; and at night, as the surgeon said, “ offensive beyond description. ”

In the House of correBien in 1778, the prisoners were all employed; and had then a careful and attentive keeper. Some tailors and Ihoe-makers were at work; but most of the men were occupied in the manufacture of paper-hangings; carving the moulds, grinding the colours, and staining the paper. The women prisoners were entirely separated from the men, and were employed in making lace. In December 1781, this house was empty, for the prisoners were removed to Vilvorde, where their apartments are not so airy and convenient.

The Hospitals of St. Jajues and St. Guilluutme, for the maintenance of poor travellers for three days, have been (hut these three years; yet the beds Hill continue in the two rooms of the latter.*

The tbufe tf corrcBian which was building in 1778, near Vilvorde, for the provinces of Austrian Brabant, is upon as large a fcalc as any structure of the kind that 1 have seen. It is situated near the great canal leading to Brussels; and is almost surrounded by water. The ground plot is rc&angular, except a sweep before the court of the governor’s house. The longer sides are about two hundred and ten yards; the (hotter, about one hundred and sixty-seven. At the back of one of the longer sides, fronting the weft, I counted eighty windows on a floor, each two feet by one. There are the fame number opposite, looking inwards towards the courts. Each of these belongs to a separate room or cell, near fix feet and a half by five and a half, and eight feet high; and a long passage eight feet and a half wide runs through each floor, into which all the opposite rooms open. Two floors of this fide were finiftred, making three hundred and twenty rooms; there were two more unfinished, of the feme number of rooms. Each of the two (hotter sides has one hundred and seventy-six rooms, of the fame lize as the others, and on as many floors. Fart of these sides were Sniffled; so that, including feme rooms on each fide of the governor’s house, about five hundred were ready of the nine hundred and

The ajfzr of bread was hong of on the front of the Mai/cm dr Ville.

Nov. 14, 1778, and Jane 17, 1783, fine white bread, 912__second fort, lore.—another fort,

11 ex- for one fiver, or about a penny.—Ac frier is fixed to the coaric or brown bread.

If. cz.

Nov. 3, 1781, a fine wnite ferny roll weighed o 9

r white bread 1 ra

A rxofauf leaf of < honfchold 2 6

Ccoarfc rye 3 6

ninety-

Sect. IV. AUSTRIAN FLANDERS. »43

ninety-two. On Tome vacant ground at the shorter Tides, more rooms will be built if Vilvoede. wanted. Of so great importance is it wifely judged by these Provinces, to keep every prisoner at night by himself, that this vast number of rooms is contrived that each may lodge one person only.

On each fide the gate of the court before the governor’s house, is a porter’s lodge.

Prisoners pass this way to their respective wards behind the house. Those committed for life are quite separate from those who are for a limited term: and men totally lb from women; not only in their wards, work-rooms, and refectories l but also in two distinct chapels. These chapels are oftagons of about thirty-five feet; and on each floor the prisoners have a room looking into them. The work-rooms are numerous j about forty feet by twenty: some up stairs j others under ground for weaving fine linen: but no prisoners deep under ground. Staircases all stone, fix feet wide t some dark Cells for confining the refrattory. A kitchen forty-seven feet by thirty-four: bake-house, and Jlaughter-house large in proportion, and commodious. Convenient apartments for several chaplains: and proper rooms for a military guard. Two spacious infirmaries are designed.

In December 1781 there were in this new House of correction a hundred and sixty-eight men and eighty-six women, clothed in an uniform of light-coloured cloth.

They are divided into three classes; and the class to which each of them belongs, together with the number that distinguilhes his room, is marked in red, on his clothes and linen. The principal employment of both sexes was spinning cotton; but some of the men were weaving, others making clothes, or shoes; and some of the women were spinning flax, others mending the linen, or making lace.—Moft of the floors are of a bad plaster, and cannot be washed.—There arc separate work-rooms and refectories to each class, which I found offensive, the windows being all ihut though the weather was calm and fine. But the passages, into which all the bedrooms open, were much more oflfenfive. When I first saw this house, I conjectured this would be the case, and though I took the plan, I did not choose to publish it.

While I was there a prisoner was brought in He was immediately lhaved— examined by the furgeon—walhed—clothed in the uniform—and then conducted to his clais.

There is a room for the magistrates, but on account of its distance from Brussels they too seldom attend. The countenances of the prisoners evidently belpoke inattention and neglect.

The regulations for this house were published at Brussels Feb. 11, 1779, in two edicts j the first for the direction of the governors, in French and Low Dutch; the other for the discipline of the house, in French, containing sixty articles, which are well worthy of attention, in any country where similar houses are erected.

In the city of Alost is the gaol for the territory, which includes a hundred and Aten , thirty-seven villages. There were in this gaol, December 2,1781, seven prisoners.

Three

144

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Alost.

UXT

Three were confined in a dark room, one, in another room still more horrid, and rhc remaining three in a strong cage; notwithstanding which, two of chefe three were loaded with irons. They are never permitted to go out: one, said he had been confined fourteen months, and another, seven. Their victuals are given in at a small aperture at the bottom of the door. Their pale sickly countenances bespoke inhumanity and misery.—June 18, 1783, there were four men and one woman.

At Ghent, in the prison called De Mamelocker,* near the superb Mtsifon de Ville, each criminal had from the city about four pence halfpenny a day: and provision being the re about one third cheaper than in London, some of them saved a little out of that allowance after paying for the weekly walhing of their linen.—In 1781, 1 found that their allowance was not in money but in provisions.—June 17, 1783, here were five debtors, and thirty-four criminals. This prison is made very offensive by the sewers.—The torture is not abolished': lately, a man fat twenty-four hours on the edgedfiool.

In a Prison, governed by the magistrates for the States, criminals had four pence a day. In each of the prisons the keeper had from the magistrates two pence a day for the custody of every prisoner. In the two prisons in 1778 were four debtors, but now this prison is discontinued, and the prisoners are sent to the Mamtlocker.

In the Bishop'i prison, at the back of his palace, there are several cages which open -into small offensive rooms. In June 1783, there were three prisoners.

Here is a Prison belonging to the rich monastery of Benedictines in the abbey of St. Peter. There were thirty-three friars in the house. This fraternity has many lordships, and part of the city in their jurisdiction. The prison joins to the abbot’s court-house. Three dreary dungeons down nineteen steps: a little window in each: no prisoners. I went down in 1778; but my noting the dimensions of the windows &c. so enraged the keeper, that he would not indulge my curiosity any farther.— May 30,1783,1 found one debtor; and was informed that there were three prisoners in the dungeons.

The House of correSion for the city of Ghent is not so commodiously built, nor kept so dean as some other Flemish prisons: but there are very good rules of ceconomy, of which I have a copy. Every prisoner is examined at his first coming; and if he be not healthy, he is not put among those that are so. That the keeper may not be tempted to oppress his prisoners, he is exempted from ail taxes. The prisoners have a set talk of different forts of work: the profits of extra-work their own. The magistrates meet in the prison once a week to insped it; and to appoint the fort and quantity of provision for every day of the week ensuing. They order the physician to lee that the lick have broth, and other nourillunent proper for them.

The name is derived from the sculpture over the gate, representing a prisoner nonrilhed by the bread of kb daughter. a< t elated in the Roman hi dory.

The

Sect. iV.

AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

*4 S

The keeper provides it, and is paid by the magistrates. I happened to go into the prison while they were there, and law them employed as above.

I shall beg leave here, on account of the humanity of its institution, to digress from my subject by taking notice of a nunnery in this place. The bojpitable maifim is not inhabited solely by nuns; here is a foundation for the reception of twelve men who are insane, and lick aged women: the insane have, when requisite, assistance from their own sex; and the tenderneis with which both these and the poor women are treated by the fillers, gave me no little pleasure.

In the Hospital in this city, there are two halls; that for men (one hundred and eighty feet by fifty-three) is vaulted, and lofty as a church.

There is at Ghent a new prison building by the states of Austrian Flanders. It is a house of correction for those provinces (as that at Vilvorde for Austrian Brabant) and is called La Maison de Force. It is situated near a canal. The plan is an oSagcm :* only four Tides finished: in one of them were, in 177 j, one hundred and fifty-nine men criminals: in 1776, one hundred and ninety-one. Another of the sides is for women, of whom there were fifty-nine. In the middle of this court is a bason of water, for washing the linen of the house.

On each of the four floors there is a corridor, or arcade, fix feet nine inches wide, quite open to the air of the court j which, however, is not attended with any inconvenience, even in winter. In the recess of every corridor, except the lowest, is a range of bed-rooms, fix feet ten inches by five feet four, and seven feet eight inches high: the door-way two feet. These are uniformly fumiihed with a bedstead, (fix feet and a half by two and a half), a draw bed, a mattress, a pillow, a pair of sheets, two blankets in winter, and one in summer. Each room has a little bench, and a (hutter to the lattice window (nineteen inches by fifteen, in the door) which, when opened and turned down, serves for a table. In the wall is. a little cupboard, two feet by one, and ten inches deep. All the rooms are vaulted, to prevent fire from running from story to story.—No person is on any pretence admitted into the bed-room of another. They have a clean shirt once a week, and clean sheets once a month. The women have not separate rooms. Some of theirs are ten feet and a half by nine and a half.

In order to the admission of a prisoner, previous notice must be given by the city or province that fends him. When he comes, he is Ihaved and waihed: a surgeon examines him; and if healthy, he is clothed with the uniform of the house, viz. a linen coat and breeches, and cloth waistcoat, which are marked with the number of his room; to it he is conducted by one of the mod orderly of the prisoners who is appointed to that service, and who allb acquaints him with the rules of the house. Commitment from one year to twenty or more, according to their crimes.

The plate in Count /'Unit's book, appeared to me worth copying.

U

Ghent.

V

La Maison De Force.

A bell

146

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Ghent.

La Maison De Force.

A bell is rung in the morning to summon the prisoners into the dining-room; in the Tummer at five; in winter the hour varies with the length of the days. Half an hour after the bell rings, their names are called over; and they go to prayers in 3 chapel. They are then allowed half an hour to breakfast. At noon they have two hours, for dinner, making their beds (which in fair weather they bring out to air) and for recreation. I was present during the whole time the men criminals were at dinner, and much admired the regularity, decency, and order, with which the whole was conducted. Every thing seas done at a word given by a director; no noise or confusion appeared; and this company of near one hundred and ninety stout criminals was governed with as much apparent case, as the moil sober and well-disposed assembly in civil society. At night they have an hour for flipper, &c. The bell gives notice of all these successive hours: it is rung at a window over the gate-way by a eentinel, who there overlooks the whole court; and, should there be any disturbance, is to give the alarm to a company who keep guard.—There are eight small rooms (cacbots) without beds, for the punishment of the refractory; but I always found them empty.

On the ground-floors of the building are work-rooms. Those for the men are too small for the looms. See. The women’s work-room is one hundred and seventy feet long, twenty-six wide, and nine to the springing of the arch. In this, many were spinning and combing wool, mending linen, &c. Others were waihing the linen in places proper for that purpose.

An exact account is kept of every circumstance relating to each man’s work, in a book that has fourteen columns.

The cottons contains the names of prisoners.

2. Tbt fort offuff on which each man is employed as jballoon, cloth, dimity, &r.

3. The number that is marked on the piece.

4. The day it was began.

5. The day it was finished.

6. Meafnre of the whole piece.

7. Number of working days the prisoner was upon it.

8. The tajk due per day.

9. Surplus work upon the piece beyond tajk.

10. Price of the piece per ell.

11. Observations, en oetafional circumstances: such as fiek, lame, difficult work, frft piece, &c.

12. Payment to prisoners for surplus work.

13. Deficiency of talk.

14. Punishment for the default.

This last column is written by the magistrates themselves. I saw in it—often, exenk— sometimes, make up in next piece—fometimes, to work alone—to bread and water—feldom, to rasping logwood. The daily allowance is two pounds of bread; feme soup of beans,

pease.

Sect. IV.

AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

*47

pease, &c. with wheaten bread in it j and, except Friday and Lent, half a pound of cold meat. Each prisoner has also the value of our farthing, for which he can buy near tWO pints of small beer; or somewhat else which the victualler of that prison is allowed to fell, and deliver to them at a wicket in the wall. Spirituous liquors ire expressly prohibited: and so is wine, unless it be ordered by a note from the physician. It is not allowed to give any thing directly to the prisoners: but there is a box into which money may be put; and at stated times it is equally distributed among them. Cards, dice, and all gaming are strictly forbidden: and there are excellent rules for preventing all quarreling; mending their morals; preserving their health; and making them for the future useful in society. To transcribe all the rules would to most readers be disagreeable. Such as with to lee them will find them, together with more particulars of this noble institution, in two edicts printed in folio at Ghent in 1773 and 1775; both in French and Low Dutch: and in a book in quarto written by Count Vilaiu XIV. and offered to the government in 1775. The title of it is Memoire Jitr les Moyens de corriger Us Malfaiteurs tt Faineans a leur prepre Avantage et de Us rendre Utiles a I’Etat.

I said transcribing all the rules at length, would be tedious; for this reason I have only given extracts from these, and from those made for other foreign prisons.

I have complete copies of them, and of others which I have not mentioned j some printed, others manuscript, which I will readily Ihew to any gentleman who has leisure and inclination to study the subject.

I revilited this prison in 1778 with one of the magistrates, and found that they were ltill carrying on a well-regulated manufactory. There were two hundred and eighty men prisoners, and one hundred and seventeen women. These latter had on the house clothes, and were at work. Mod: of them were spinning or knitting, ranged in proper order, attentive and quiet. I was informed that all the prisoners were allowed one fifth of their earnings for themselves. I brought home specimens of the cloth, as I did of the paper from Brussels 5 which I mention, because I know an idea has prevailed, that no manufacture can be carried on by convicts to any valuable purpose.

I have been very particular in my accounts of foreign houses of correSitm, especially those of the freest Hates, to counteract a notion prevailing among us, that compelling prisoners to work, especially in public, was inconsistent with the principles of English liberty j at the same time that taking away the lives of such numbers, either by executions, or the diseases of our prisons, seems to make little impression upon us. Of such force is custom and prejudice, in silencing the voice of good fenfc and humanity!

The number of criminals in December 1781, was two hundred and six. They were spinning—weaving—making nets—making and mending clothes—or working in the bake-house and kitchen; and appeared clean and healthy. The doors of the

Ghent

La Maison De Force.

14*

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Guar bed-rooms were open while they were out in the day-time, and none of the rooms La were in the least offensive.—In another quarter, the number of petty offenders was

a hundred and six, who were employed in the same manner with the criminals above-Foict. mentioned; except lbme who worked as carpenters, turners, and smiths, for the use of the house.—On the women’s fide there were a hundred and fifty, who were waihing—spinning—making and mending the linen—or at work in the kitchen. Their bread, fonp and' meat were good and plentiful, and all befpokc the care and attention of the director. A lift of fitch prisoners as behave well is annually sent to the Emperor (about Good Friday): in 1782 twelve received their pardon.—If, however, I venture to point out fame defects in fb good an institution, that others may avoid them, I hope to be excused.—The building has too many stories.— the rooms and corridors are too low—the infirmaries are not sufficiently detached—there are not proper work-rooms, and those are some steps under ground—the women have not separate dormitories—the sewers are improperly placed—the distribution of provisions, being but once a day, is not frequent enough—and the bowls, being of wood, cannot easily be kept clean.

The two work-rooms that were lately erected, were much more crowded than those at Vilvorde, and yet they were not like them, ofienfive. This forprifed me at first, till I considered that the difference was owing, probably, to the clothes of the prisoners at Vilvorde being of wool, and the particular oflfenfivenefs of the bed-rooms there.

At my visit in 1783,1 found here a great alteration for the worse; the flourishing and ufefol manufactory destroyed; and the looms and utensils all fold, in consequence of the Emperor’s too hasty attention to a petition from a few interested persons.—That which ought to be the leading view in all such houses is now loft in this house.—Many formerly aferibed the comfort and happiness of their lives to the trades they here learned, and the attention here paid them; but now, the men and women (the former three hundred and twenty-six in number and the latter a hundred and fifty) do not earn, one with another, seven farthings a day. Their victuals are also reduced; the meat from half a pound to fix ounces, and greens from three to two farthings-worth a day. Their bread, made in the house, is now ammunition broad.—In consequence of this vile policy I found the aspect of the prisoners quite changed; nor could I wonder to hear that a quarter of the house is soon to be fitted up for an infirmary.

a,trcr;. At Bruges there is to the Pri/on a court-yard for criminals, and another for debtors: but the former are never let out. Each fort has a daily allowance in money, about three pence halfpenny English; provisions rather cheaper than in London: a clean shirt every week. Debtors have the allowance from their creditors-, who also pay the keeper a final! fee at the entrance of the prisoner, and a penny a day during his confinement. No dungeons. Two things are remarkable in this prison, and well worth imitating. One is, the care they take of the fide. There are two medical

books.

s

Lyon

Sect. IV.

AUSTRIAN FLANDERS.

*4?

books, one for the city, the other For the seigneuries or lordships, which are governed Bruges. by different magistrates, but the prison is common to both. The physician at every visit enters his prescription in the respective book, which i$ carried to the apothecary; who, after copying the reape, fends the book back again; and it is kept in the room where the magistrates meet to hold a court of judicature, inspect the prison,

&c. I spent some hours in looking over them. The prescriptions are written with regularity for many years past. Bark and cordials were almost constant ingredients in the recipe. They are not troubled with infectious distempers; but perhaps the physicians are somewhat apprehensive of them, and order those preventives with success. The physician orders a surgeon to attend them when the case requires one: and at his order also the keeper provides for the sick, soup, rebite bread, &c. the magistrates allowing for this fourteen peace a day, to continue till countermanded by the physician. Some lick prisoners have been many weeks thus liberally provided for.

The other exemplary practice is, their care of legacies and donations. In the council-chamber, under a piflure representing visiting the Tick, feeding the hungry, and releasing the prisoner, there is in a frame a printed lift: of all charities given or bequeathed to the prisoners from the year 1315 to 1734; with the names and intentions of the several donors: and in another small frame is a memorial of the time at which each bequest is to be distributed.

In December 1781, here were three debtors and sixteen criminals.

In the Rasp-house, Dec, 1781, there were fifty-eight men who were Ipinning and R*sr-weaving. Each has his dormitory over the work-rooms. The rooms of the turnkeys house. adjoining, are furnished with alarm-bells. One of the prisoners had been confined thirty-four years, for an attempt to set fire to this house j since which the cielings have been arched with brick between the joists.—This house is under the care of four friars and four ftflers.—I alked one of the friars, how much the prisoners earned

He answered, some, seven pence a day, but, one with another, no more than two pence.

The Hospital in this city is a very spacious and airy room, with a wainfeot partition Hospit u. or fereen which divides the men from the women.—The great attention of the nuns distinguilhes the hospitals in Roman catholic countries. Their recluse life gives them a pale look, and is the reason, probably, why the wards of the patients are kept too close; fyere however they look very healthy. There are twenty of them, who rife at four, and are constantly employed about their numerous patients. The directrefs of the pharmacy lait year celebrated her jubilee or fiftieth year of residence.

These fifters alked, whether I was a catholic ? I answered, " I love good people of all religions.” Then, said they, " we hope you will die a catholic.”

The

FOREIGN PRISONS.

150

OSTIVS.

Portugal.

Lisbon

Prisons.

The prison at Ostekd, which is near the town-house, consists of nine rooms, but no court. May 27, 1781, there were in it four debtors and seven criminals; and June 21, 178,3, two debtors and (bur criminals. Eight pence a day is paid to the gaoler for each criminal and insolvent debtor, for which they have one pound and a half of bread, and an allowance of meat except on meagre days. The gaoler is allowed two pence a day for each, and fifteen pence at entrance, and discharge. The chaplain officiates on Sundays and holydays; he, and the surgeon are paid by the city.

PORTUGAL.

Imprisonment for debt is prohibited in Portugal by an ordinance made in (774. There is an entire reparation of the sexes in prisons and infirmaries. No garnish is taken in prisons; but I found the bad custom prevalent here of detaining prisoners for the gaoler’s fees: those fees arc often paid by a charitable society called the Miferictrdia. Many from the frit families in the kingdom are of this order. They fend provisions twice a week to several prisons , and, like the Gmfratcmita della misericordia at Rome, pay great attention to capital convicts. Criminals here are often kept in confinement for several years before they are brought to trialj and fbmetimes, even after being tried and condemned, they lie in prison some years before they are executed.* I law fomc convicts at Lisbon going from prison to embark for the settlements in the Brafilt. Such convicts as are designed for India are enrolled as soldiers, and lent to a house (or hospital) on the other fide of the river, where they are kept some weeks, to bathe, and to be better clothed and fed, that they may be properly prepared for their long voyage.

The great Prison at Lisbon, Limoiero, (formerly a palace) is designed for the reception of prisoners from the provinces as well as from the city. There were seven hundred and seventy-four, on Feb. 21, 1783. In one of the lower wards there were seventy criminals, but none in irons. On the first floor there were many who paid for better accommodations, and received no donations from the misericordia. Here

Before the Marquis of PtmhtzTs administration, gaolers nfed often to let their prisoners out on their ferti*. One thus favoured, was ordered for execution seven years after he had been condemned. On the gaoler’s fammons, he immediately returned to the prison from his work in the country. For thij pandoal regard to his promise he received a pardon.

civil

Sect. IV.

PORTUGAL.

*5*

civil and criminal causes are tried in a large hall called Coxa da Supplitafam, which the prisoners use for a day-room and lodging-room: the courts of justice are opened at eight or nine in the morning. There are two infirmaries, one for each sex: in that for men there were eighteen persons, in single beds with proper bedding: their room looked towards the river, and was spacious, clean and airy. In the room for the condemned, the beds were in recesses. Over these, in a large gallery latticed, there were beds for the lick from the /terete or private chambers.—In this country, and also in Spain, onefoldom fees glass windows; but in prisons, never.

In the Prison at the castle, the wards below as well as those in the great prison, are designed for those that cannot pay; and the first floor for those who pay a stipulated sum. Several small rooms open into a common passage, in some of which (theJecrete) the prisoners are dofely confined. There is no court-yard either to this prison or to that called Limoiero (lemon grove).

The ecdeliastical Prison (Aljube), near the great church, is under the jurisdiction of the Patriarch. It conlifts of four rooms and a small chapel. Here were confined fix priests, and three women. In this and the other prisons, the prisoners may be conversed with through the iron grates: but I always went into the prisons.

In a Prison by the rope-walk near the river, many of the nobles and priests were confined in the time of the marquis of Pombal’s administration. Here, nineteen vaulted rooms open into a passage: I measured some of them, they were about twenty feet by nine. The wall was fix feet two inches thick. In the entrance to each room there were three doors j the middle one was an iron grate with round bars. Over each of the doors there was an aperture to admit light, except in two rooms called focrete, which were totally dark.

The Prison at Bellem (about two miles from Lisbon) has four rooms below, and several on the first floor for those who pay. Criminals less atrocious than those sent. to Limoiero are here confined. The prisoners subsist by charitable donations; and the gaoler told me, that he had a right to a fee from every one discharged.

In the Arfonal are four large rooms for the (laves or convicts, most of whom are Moors. Some work at the rope-walk, others fetch water, a few are closely confined, and three or four chained to one spot j one of whom (an Italian) told me he had been thus confined eight years; another, four years. The rest were chained two and two together, and those that went out had a long chain between them, which was taken off as soon as they returned into the arfonal. Their allowance from government was one pound of biscuit a day, and some rice, and half a pound of meat

When the prison of the inquisition was rebuilt after the earthquake of 1755, a few persons law the rooms of confinement. One gentleman told me, that they open into a long passage, like those at the prison by the rope-walk, but were smaller and under ground.

Lisbon

Faisons.

Belie.m

Prison.

LisaoN

Arsenai,

three

«s=

Hosrxi*is.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

three times a week." They were employed in carrying water to this prison, the in&mary, and the great prison; and guarded by the military.

The Iajfrmarj for the marines and slaves consisted of two remarkably good rooms, lofty, dean and quiet. The slaves had each a bed with lhcets, and great attention was paid to them.

A nuaafaSerj was begun in the Ct/Ue about two yean ago, for the employment of vagrant and deserted children, in carding, spinning, weaving, making lace, embroidery, &c. About a thousand children were thus employed here. Such an institution may be a great advantage in a country like this, where young people are Very much addicted to idlcnris. But would it not be better, if greater numbers of them, were employed in the arts which are most useful and necessary

The General bajpital of S. Jne, (formerly the Jesuits college) has fifteen wards for men and fix for women. The number of the former was five hundred and ninety-three; of the latter, two hundred and eighty. Some of the wards were spacious (forty-six feet wide), and had only two rows of beds, in reccffes. These recedes open into a private passage two feet nine inches wide.—The lower wards, particularly those for the insane, are too elofe.

The Military bcjfital of S. Joai de Dees (in which were one hundred and lerenty-one patients) was formerly a convent, and not used for an hospital till since the earthquake of 1755. Here are (twelve) wards for different difotders, but most of them 1 thought too elofe.

The English bajpital for merchant? seamen, (adjoining to their burying-ground) consists of two or three rooms, in which at my first visit March 3, 1783, wereseven patients. The rooms were clean, the victuals good. This hospital has fix visitors, each of whom attends two months. The names of the visitors and their months of attendance for this year, I saw hung up in the study of our worthy consul Sir Jabn Hart, by whom this beneficial mode of inspection was first proposed.

The Engli/b marine bajpital is on the southern fide of the Tagntt which is here about two miles over. The hospital has two wards on the ground-floor, in which 1 found no patients: eight or ten Danish sailors had lately died here of a malignant fever. In the upper ward were fourteen Englishmen, each of whom had a bed. The fide-wall was damp, the ground being ten feet high against it, and all the rooms were very dirty.—This hospital is rented.—On many accounts, it should be on the Lisbon fide of the river, where every advantage of situation might be chosen. Gentlemen would then undertake the inspection of it; the head surgeon might daily attend; and our lcamcn here would not be lb liable as they are, to be decoyed into foreign service.

In this county the prifiutrt have a difpeo Cation to eat meat the two first days of Lent (vre. Asti Wednesday and Thsrfday) Co that families may fead in to them, the remains of their ftelh provisions.

In

Sect. IV.

SPAIN.

*53

\

In the Misericordia hospital for foundlings, there were between eighty and ninety children, most of them Moors. They looked healthy and clean. Each nnrfe had four infants under her care. There is a cradle on the outlide which turns, on an axis, with a bell to give notice.—Bastardy in this country is attended with little diigrace^ children not born in wedlock being allowed to inherit; and this, perhaps, may be the reason why the number of foundlings in this hospital is so inconsiderable.

The prisoners at Evora and Elvas subsist by charity. Some of them had been confined three, four, or five years, without being brought to crial,')'

The Hospital at Evora had a recess for the bed of each patient; these recedes were lined with glazed tiles. The wards in it, as in all the hospitals I saw in this country, were much too close.

Some of the prisons which I visited, had a passage to the street and to the lodging' rooms, secured on both tides by iron grates, at which most of the prisoners were begging.

SPAIN.

J. entered Spain at Badajoz, March 9, 1783. This country abounds with Charitable institutions, and' there are at present few or no beggars in it. Most of the prisons have Courts for men, with fountains or running water in the centre, and corridors for shade. The fame reparation of the sexes which I observed in the Portuguese prisons, takes place here; and it is the custom likewise, as in Portugal, for the gaolers to demand fees of prisoners before they are discharged. A condemned criminal, after the judges have made'their report, is seldom pardoned by the king.

The price of brtmd at Lisbon.

4if, OK.

0 8 of fine white bread cost one Vintm.

1 15 of brown — two Vintmt,

Two finttm are equal to two pence three farthings.

f At Elvas the Marshal de Vattere did me the favour to shew me the new barracks, Ac. I could not but remark to him, that I was perfoaded, the closeness of them, as well as those under the ramparts, gave his soldiers their pale and languid look. He walked with me to a new fountain, and shewed me the plan and intended inscription in honour of the chief magistrate, for whom I told the Marshal^ I should have had an higher esteem, had I not found poor wretches in the prison, who never had been put on their examination or trial, for three or four years.

X

Ltsioft.

Evora.

Stain*.

After

*54

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Ifiiv.

AjfLCH).

B*9a)OZ

PtXSOXt.

TaLjteia

Hwm»u.

After condemnation, lie is called from the other prisoners into the chapel, where his sentence is read to him by S iccrctaiy, and a friar attends to exhort and comfort him, who never leaves him till he is executed. The sentence is generally read on Saturday, and the execution ordered for the Monday following.

When a confession is extorted from a criminal by torture, it is read to him twenty-four hoots afterwards, that he may cither confirm or tetrad it. But in fbme of the provinces this Blocking practice docs not take place.

It is the custom at Madrid for two of the privy council to visit the prisons; and they often either reverie or'alter the sentences of the inferior judges. When I was there, the sentence of one condemned to the Prado prison for eight years, was altered to four months; another sentenced to the fame prison for six months, on account of his large family was discharged.

Some of the churches in Spain are jtJyUams for debtors and criminals. At Madrid there are only two, S. Seiafiua for men, and S. Luis for women. At the former, there were five persons; one of whom said he had been there two years. At the latter, there was only one. A pavement round these churches, about three feet wide, is the verge of the privilege.*

I found more attention paid to prisoners, and the prisons kept cleaner, in the capittU of Portugal and Spain, than in the provinces.

At Baoijot most of the prisoners in one of the prifeut looked unhealthy, and were deserters and smugglers. Their allowance of bread was a pound and a half per day. There is a Military bojpital belonging to this prison, to which the sick are removed, and in which I saw eleven patients. The entrance to this hospital is by a court; and most of the wards open to an interior court like other Moorish buildings.

There is another prison at Badajaz. The prisoners were begging at the grates; for they subsist partly by alms, and partly by felling purses, tec. which they make in the prison.

At Tat.avera there were three Hejpitals. In the largest (Commit) the two wards were spacious and airy. That for men had eight iron bedsteads, and the other fix. Adjoining to the men’s ward, there was a neas room and bed for sick decayed ecdcfiaftics.

Dr. Iff-, in Ms fam rf Soattj amd Mamatrt im Itnfy, jodiciouffy observes, that, " the afyluin which churches and convents offer to criminals, operates against the peace of society, and tends to

the encouragement of this (hocking codons (flatting) in two different manners: first, it inereafes the ' criminal’s hopes of escaping; Secondly, it diminishes, in vulgar minds, the idea of the atrocity of " the crime. When she populace fee a murderer lodged within the sacred walls of a church, protected " and fed by men who are revered on account of their profession, and the supposed Sanflity of their " lives; mnfl not this sveakea the horror which mankind naturally have for such a crime, and which it ought to be the aim of every government to augment ? ” Later XLlff.

MADRID

< J'ar/at/a t/r //.r fam/1/<’ fvr/r.

Sect. IV.

SPAIN.

At Toledo there are two Prifims. In one of these there were only eight prisoners. Toledo But in the other, which was the principal prison, there were, March 16, 1783, ?*,*°*’

two hundred and twenty prisoners; mod of whom lay under the corridors in a finall court: many were loaded with irons, and almost all looked unhealthy. In the two sick rooms on the first floor, several miserable objects were dying in their beds. On my observing to the gaoler, that the prison was crowded, he informed me, that a fortnight before it had been more crowded, a hundred having been then removed to the arsenal at Carthagena (in Murcia).

In the Hospital of San Juan ie Dias there is only one ward, in which there were Hwhtaw. fix beds, each of them placed in a rccefs, eight feet by fix feet three inches.

The Hospital of 'San Juan Baptista (founded by one of the archbishops) is finely situated at a little distance from the city. It has summer and winter wards for each sex, exactly iimilar, except that the wards for summer are more airy: the windows opening to the floor. The men’s wards are twenty-four feet wide, with two rows of beds in lofty recedes, in each of which is a window for fresh air. The women’s wards were clean, the furniture of their beds linen, but not placed, as the beds of the men were, in recedes. Adjoining to the wards there is a spacious corridor for walking.

The principal Prison (La CareddeDortc) at Madrid, has an elegant front,* with Madrid this inscription, Rjynanda la MagcJiaJ de Felipe IF. anno de 1634, con acuerdo del Pttsox. Consejo se fabrics este Cartel deCortepara tomodidad, y seguridad de los preset. “ In “ the reign of his majesty Philip JVC A.D. 1634, by direction of the Council,

“ this Court Prison was erected for the convenience and security of prisoners.”

The number of prisoners, March 32, 1783, was one hundred and forty men and forty women. There are many rooms on’the upper floors about fifteen feet by ten, some with done bedsteads, and iron hooks, for chaining the prisoners. In some of the rooms there were three or four prisoners, in others but one. Here are two courts; one of them, in which were mod of the prisoners, was paved and had arcades on two sides, and a fountain in the middle, f Some of the prisoners had irons on both legs, with a drong bolt between. These lay on barracks in dungeons down twenty-two deps. In one of the dungeons the gaoler has beds, which he lets to those who will pay him a real vellon and a half (4d.) a night. The women were in one large room s none of them in irons.y£In the infirmary, which was a large and clean room, the men lay Angle, and were not in irons.—The provisions were good; the bread fine, the allowance exactly one pound per day. The gaoler has the liberty of taking some prisoners into his house* -each of whom pays twenty-five doubloons for the

See Plate XVII.

t Near the fountains in the Spaaiih gaols are xirvtitient Jlcrtt trough, at which I generally saw the men walhing their linen.

X 4

term

Ij6

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Mmn

sums.

Si*

Fsixiido.

tom of his confinement. He has rooms also for which fix doubloons are pud, besides real vtllou and a half a night for a bed. He can take off the iAns of a prisoner, on the payment of two dollars.—The courts are held within the ptilon.—The whole prison was clean; and the gaoler, as I was informed by one of my countrymen there confined, whom I frequently visited, is humane and attentive to his prisoners, who all looked healthy.

The City prison (La Cared de Villa) is like the former, but has only one court-yard. There were in it about one hundred and twenty men and thirty women. The rooms and dungeons were-very dirty and offensive; and the trails of one of the torture-rooms was iiained with blood. I was lorry to find such traces of this practice among people, in other respeeb generous aid burnout.

La Cartel de la Corona is a prison for ecdcfiaftics. There were in it five priests, one of whom had his wife with him.

At the gate of the post-office, there are four or five dungeons where vagrants, beggars, &c. are confined for a few days, till they are lent to San Fernando. There were here five men and two women: their allowance was twelve quartils (nearly four pence) a day, besides alms received at the grates from passengers.

The Prado prison, near the public walk of that name, is one long room in which are barrack-bedsteads. Here were upwards of one hundred prisoners: some were chained to the floor, or to the barracks on which they lay j some worked on the roads, bridges, &c. Others having been marines, were to be lent to the docks. They are divided into three classes. To those who work on the roads, &c. the allowance is seventeen quartils (five pence); to marines, fourteen; and to those in irons, who do not work, twelve quartils.

I fsw about fifty coming from work, and asked some of them, which they preferred; working, or confinement i They readily replied, the former; but added, that they were not forced to work hard. I observed that the guard, with them and at the prison, were calm and jleody.

Sam Fernando, about eight miles from the city, is a House tf ttrrellion for petty offenders, vagrants, and beggars. Here were three hundred and nine men and five hundred and forty-seven women. Some were carrying stone to a lime-kiln; feme making and waffling the linen of the house; and some were spinning linen and worsted. The work-rooms are thirty-two feet wide; the infirmaries are spacious, at the top of the house. The prisoners were clothed in an uniform, and each is allowed two pair of shoes and stockings. The men’s apartments were clean, but the women’s (as is generally the case in the Spanish prisons and hospitals) were much cleaner. Every one had a bed, a mattress and two coverlets. The women here have a court as well as the men , and both courts arc commanded by the keeper’s balcony. The. provisions were good: the bread allowance is twenty ounces a day. Two of the prisoners attend at dinner, to fee that each is served with his full portion

of

Sect. IV.

SPAIN.

*57

of soup (three quarters of a pint). They are allowed three feasts in.a year, Christmas, Easter, and San Fernando’s day. Here is a Ihop for the sale of wine, the quality and price of which are fixed by. the magistrates s but no Spirituous liquors are permitted to be sold. No -fees are paid at entrance, or discharge. The prison is attended by a physician, a surgeon and a chaplain: it has also a guard, confilting of thirty foot and eight horse, which is changed every month.

Here is a head-keeper or governor on the men’s fide, a humane, sensible and attentive man, who resides in the houie: as allb on the women’s fide there is a resident governess. The regulations are peculiarly calculated for the preservation of decorum and due subordination; for the prevention of fraud and embezzlement in the distribution of provision" and clothing; for enforcing a ftri'ft and devout performance of religious duties; for an exact separation of the two sexes; and for the constant and regular employment of every individual in the house. I shall here copy only the Diet table.*

The Table of Diet for Sax Fernando,

Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays. Twenty ounces of bread, eight ounces of muttony and two ounces of garvances (i. e. yellow beans dried).

Mondays, fPeduefdstys and Saturdays. Twenty ounces of bread, four ounces of meat, and two OUnCCS of 'garvances. At night, four ounces of bread in broth, or three ounces of lentils; or two ounces and a half of jew-beans.

Fridays and meagre days. Twenty ounces of bread, three ounces of dried fifii, two ounces of rice, and two ounces and a half of jew-beans.

To make their olios, || they are allowed, on meat days, eight pounds of salt butter; on Fridays, four pounds for supper.

On Fridays, they are allowed, one pound of oil and twenty-five pounds of jew-beans, garvances, and lentils for soupe-mesigrt.—Ors meat days, cayenne pepper for sauce.

Diet table for the Infirmary.

Full Diet. Breakfast. Bread two ounces*

Bread eight ounces, meat six ounces.

Bread fix ounces, meat four ounces*

Bread two ounces.

Bread four ounces, meat four ounces*

The same.

Broth.

Bread two ounces, and broth.

The same.

Ha&f Diet.

Dinner.

Supper.

Breakfast.

Dinner.

Supper.

Common Diet. Breakfast.

Dinner.

Supper.

- Low Diet. Broth only.

Chocolate, biscuits, wine and other necessaries are allowed the sick; according to discretionary orders from the physician, who is to be guided by the medical rules approved of by the body of physicians at Madrid.

Nurfcs and others who attend the sick are allowed a diet of ten oonces of meat, sixteen ounces of bread, two ounces of garvances, and half a quarto (about half a pint English) of wine daily.

I W/a, is a general term in Spain for a variety of Ingredient* boiled over a flow Arc, in*, meat, greens, pepper, &c.

The

Sak

Feunandc.

*5®

FOREIGN PRISONS.

Maokiq The Hufpidt, a fort of prison, is also a well-regulated manufactory, in which the Hoineio. fpxgj aTC entirely separated. A considerable number of men, advanced in years;

were picking wool. In one room, an hundred and fifty boys were spinning worsted; in another, sixty were carding wool. Forty or fifty looms were employed on coarle linen; others on wide cloth. In two rooms I observed Rocking and waistcoat frames. Some boys were carding and spinning the down of hares and rabbits for gloves: and iome were employed in a pin manufactory. A number of tailors and carpenters I also saw at work. Fifty of the least boys were under instruction in the school. All commonly rise at six; attend prayers, and then go to breakfast; dine about noon; and sup at sun-set. They have twenty-two ounces of bread, and two ounces of peaie a day, and half a pound of meat, except on meagre days. There are two rooms for the confinement of the disorderly.—The regulations of this well-conducted house are the fame with rhofe for San Fernando.

H«,nrcL!. The Real Hospital General, is a new building round a spacious court (three hundred and ten feet by two hundred) in which are two reservoirs of water. Three sides of the court have corridors, twelve feet wide. The great wards (fifty-five feet and a half wide) divided by a wall having several arches, are furnished with double rows of beds on iron bedsteads (six feet three inches by three feet two) one for each patient, and a marble flab is placed against the wall for every two beds. The rooms are arched over, and have many apertures in the cieling, but all the windows were shut. At one end of each ward is an altar, at the other a fire-place. The number of men, as appear by a list that was given me, was five hundred and eighty-nine.. A multitude of visitors rendered the wards dirty and noisy. The staircases arc light and airy; the steps are of stone, sixteen inches wide; and the afeenc (four inches) easy.

The number of women was three hundred and two. Their apartments in the new hospital being not yet built, they were lodged in the old wards, which are much cleaner than the men’s. In this hospital, and at one or two in Portugal, convalelcents are put into the closest and word rooms.

Here is a detached ward, for prifcmeri, furnished with twenty-eight beds, and well guarded. Here are likewise rooms (carefully separated) for insane, for dropsical; and for consumprive patients. The contagion of consumptions is supposed to infeft not only the clothes, bedding, and furniture of rooms, but also the walls and cieling. Danger has been apprehended even from the hories of consumprive patients; and for this reason it was thought necessary, in an instance that was mentioned to me, to kill the horse of an officer who had died of this distemper.—Betides one principal physician, there are eighteen others, who attend their stated wards; six surgeons with two hundred pupils (praticantes); and twenty-three priests; besides servants, who all lodge and board in the hospital.

The Hospital of San Juan de Dios is chiefly appropriated to venereal patients. Here were a hundred and seventy-three men and twenty-eight women. The wards for

Sect. IV.

SPAIN.

the men are up stairs: the women’s apartment is on the ground-floor, and has an Madrid aperture in it so contrived, as that their friends may converse with them without Hospital!; seeing the m. . The wards of both sexes were cleaner and quieter than those of the general hospital.

In the convent De la Latina there are two rooms for lick men, one for summer, the other for winter, with beds in recedes.

In the convent (or hospital) of San Francisco, there are two wards, one with seven beds for men, the other with eight for women. At the time of my visit, they were serving the afternoon chocolate.—In the hospitals that are in convents, the rooms are much cleaner and quieter, and more attention is paid to the patients, than in other hospitals.—Here is a charitable foundation for eight widows, of officers who died in the late war.

There are at Madrid two other Hospitals which may well deserve to be mentioned; one, called the hospital de la Corte; the other, the hospital of San Antonio.

The hospital de la Corte for the king’s servants, is built in the form of a cross. It has an altar in the centre, under a cupola. The wards are vaulted and lofty. The walls are lined (five feet high) with glazed tiles. In the walls there are convenient alcoves (three feet nine inches wide, and five feet and a half high) with linen curtains before them. The beds in this hospital are large and not in recefies. The patients have chocolate and biscuit for breakfast, and also in the afternoon.

The hospital of San Antonio is intended chiefly for the reception and accommodation of poor travelling Austrians, for three days. In one room there are four beds for men j in another, three for women. Here is also a refeftory. The allowance to each traveller is two pounds of bread, one pound of mutton, and a quarter of a pound of lard a day. In the two rooms for the lick, the regulations for the physician, surgeon, and patients, are hung up.

In a room in this hospital a charitable society, called the Hermandad del Refugio, Heruak. meet every evening, and then go about the streets, giving notice of their presence DEt by striking the pavement with flicks shod with iron. Whatever poor and distressed Reiuc,°* people they meet with in this perambulation, they conduct to this hospital, and supply them with a supper of bread and eggs, one night’s lodging (in rooms which are appropriated for them), and a breakfast of bread and raisins.* The lick they send to the general hospital, where one of the eighteen physicians already mentioned always attends to examine and admit patients.—In that part of this hospital which is next the street, there is a place into which the sick put notices of their distress, in consequence of which they are immediately visited and relieved by the society.

At Madrid the fine Spanish triad was two pounds for two pence halfpenny. I always preferred this to the French bread, which was somewhat dearer.—At the entrance of Spain a measure otfJUeaf, which weighs about no It. coil from twelve to fourteen nali-, of iarlcy, from five to six.

A real is 2 |d.

In

i6o

FOREIGN PRISONS.

ViLtA-

»OAtB

7ISI-

1 ICS.

In the city of Valladolid there are four courts, the chancery, the city, the bishop’s court, and the inquisition, each of which has a prison belonging to it: but in the bishop’s prison, of late, there have been few or no prisoners.

Most of the prisoners in the Chancery or province prison lie on a bench in a long room: it has no dungeons. In the chapel is a stone bedstead for the condemned. April 4, 1783, there were one hundred and twenty-eight men and thirteen women.

In the City prison also most of the prisoners were crowded together-into one long room. This prison was not without dungeons. I passed through two, into a dark and damp and £fmai one, in which I saw a poor creature lying on his back chained by both legs to a great stone.—Prisoners here are confined for a long time before they are brought to trial.—Fees are demanded as at Madrid.—The prison allowance is one real. About thirty convicts (presidios) were to be font the following week to Ferrol, they are allowed two reals a day. The prisoners are not allowed to shew themselves at the grates of the prison; and the fame is true of the two principal prisons at Madrid.—Not long lince, one who was put to the torture here, denied the crime for which he was tortured, but confessed another (a murder) and was executed for it.

I foiled in my attempt to gain admittance into the mqnifitim at Ulbo'n.' At Madrid, by the kind assistance of Count Campomdmes, I got access to the inquisitor-general, but the day on which I applied to him being a great holiday, he appointed me seven o’clock the near morning. On this holiday I saw the inquisitor, several of the nobility and others, go in procession to church, carrying the insignia of the order, which are a cross between a palm and a (word.—The near morning, the inquisitor received me at prayers, and in a.few minutes condudefi me to the tribunal, which was hung with red: over the inquisitor’s feat there was a crucifix, and before it a table with feats for the two secretaries, and a (tool for the prisoner. I could not prevail on him to lhew me any other part of the prison; but he told me that he went round once a month with a secretary, and asked every prisoner whether he had any complaint to make.

The letters of the fame kind friend. Count Campomanes, procured my atlmission at Valladolid. I was received at the inquisition-prison by the two inquisitors, their secretaries, and two magistrates, and conducted into several rooms. On the fide of one room was the picture of an Auio de Fe in 1667, when ninety-seven persons were burnt: at this time the Spanifo court resided at Valladolid. The tribunal room is like that at Madrid, but has an altar, and a door (with three locks) into the secretary’s room, over which was inscribed, that the greater excommunication was denounced against all strangers who presume to enter. In two other tribunal rooms, were the insignia of the inquisition. In a large room, I saw on the floor and

Pegon, a famous Spanish inquisitor. calls the procession, Hcrrauiam ae tremtmJnM SfcBandmm.

shelves.

Sect. IV.

SPAIN.

(helves, many prohibited books, some of which were English: in another room, I saw multitudes of erodes, beads, and small pictures. The painted cap was also Ihewed me, and the vestments for the unhappy victims. After several consultations, I was permitted to go up the private staircase, by which prisoners are brought to the tribunal; this leads to a passage with several doors in it, which I was not permitted to enter. On one of the secretaries telling me, “ none but prisoners ever enter these rooms; ” 1 answered, I would be confinbd for a month to satisfy my curiosity j he replied, “ none come out under three years, and they take the oath of secrecy.”

I learned, by walking in the court, and conversing with the inquisitors, that the cells have double doors, and are separated by two walls, to prevent prisoners conversing together, and that over the space between the walls there is a fort of chimney or funnel, enclosed at the top, but having perforations on the lides, through which some air and a glimmering of light enter. Theft funnels, the inquisitors told me, are double barred: and one of them ftrves two cells. Both the inquisitors allured me that they did not put irons on any of their prisoners. The passages into which some of the cells open, have small apertures for the admission of light.—In a gloomy area at the back of the prison, there was nothing but a great mastiff dog.

It is well khown that from this court there is no appeal.—I need not say how horrid the secrecy and severity of it appear. 1 could not but observe, that even the fight of it llruck terror into the common people as they passed. It is stiled, by a monstrous abuse of words, the holy and apofttlic court of inquisition.

The belt Hospital in this city is the Efgueva.- the wards are one hundred and eight feet by thirty, with windows at the ends. Each ward has twenty-eight beds in recedes and two doors opposite, which open into corridors.

The Prison at Buroos, (built, as appears by an inscription on the front, in 1778) surrounds a court forty feet square, in which is a fountain, and a stone trough. The cells are fourteen feet by nine and a half. They have two doors, the inner one latticed. The number of prisoners April 8, 1783, was one hundred and forty-five men and leven women. The women, as in other gaols in this country, are always locked up in their rooms. In the men's infirmary there were nineteen beds in recesses, but only six patients. The architect has been very attentive to the construction of drains and sewers, for though this gaol was very dirty, it was not offensive. In this, as in other Spanish prilbns, there are flocks for the punishment of offences committed within the prison.—No rules and orders are hung up.—Here is no torture-room.

The Hojpicio (lands near the river, and consists of a house of correction, an hospital for foundlings, and a chapel. It has two courts, one for men and the other for women, in the former of which there is a water-mill for grinding corn. Two rooms are appropriated to the lick. Four nurses are always present, to take care of the infants that are brought in, till they can be sent to be nursed in the country. The bread is good and made in the house. The allowance to each person one pound and a half.

Y The

ifi

Valladolid

Inquisition.

Hostitac.

Buncos

Prison.

Hojpicio.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

162

Butcos.

Hospital del Ret.

Fautlosa

Peiios.

Aitlcms.

Citadel

The disorderly are punished by being confined in a dark room: a woman in one of these rooms requested, with tears, my interposition for her. I applied to the chaplain, who is the superintendenc of the house, and he readily consented to release her horn her confinement.

The Hospital del Ref at the rich convent of the Volgat, about two miles from the city, has two spacious wards for each lex, that the chirurgical patients may be separated from the others. These wards were very clean, and the beds placed in alcoves (ten feet by nine feet four inches) with curtains before those for the women. The other three hospitals at Burgos resemble this noble hospital: and have small botanic gardens belonging to them.*

The Pijfon at Pamploka is an old building in the middle of the city. It has three finall courts: the prisoners lie-in boxes without mattresses or bedding. There were flocks, and also a dark vaulted room for the punishment of offences committed in the prison. The rooms being very dirty and offensive, I inquired whether epidemical distempers had not sometimes prevailed there, and was answered in the affirmative, and told that about eight years ago, eighteen or twenty prisoners had died in a short time. Here were sixty-one men and three women April 15, 1783. Allowance to each is about two pence a day.

The upper floor of this prison is used as a House of eorreHioH for women. I saw twenty-eight in four rooms, all spinning, but not with wheels. Each had a bed; the rooms were clean. The bread was good; allowance one pound and a half a day. The term of confinement, from four years to eight; but if any person should choose to marry one confined for small offences, the magistrates are ready to release her. One of the magistrates told me that he visited this prison every week, to hear any complaints that might be made. I inquired, whither the keeper went with him? he replied, that he did.

The torture is not used in this province (Navarre). A singular custom prevails here; for twice in the year (the day before Christmas, and eight days before Easter), the Viceroy goes with the magistrates to the council-chamber in the prison, and releases whom he pleases of the prisoners. The day before I got to Pamplona, he had released thirteen. A few years ago, to the lurprife of the magistrates, all were released.

Two, of the four churches in this city, are Affiant for debtors and criminals, at one of which (the cathedral) there was one criminal.

In the Citadel there were one hundred and twenty Haves (or convicts) Crowded into five or six rooms. Thole in the upper rooms had only a ring on one leg. Those in the lower rooms, about thirty in number, very sickly, were chained two and two with heavy chains, and some for very flight offences. The rooms had

Som Jvsn, Barrcates, Cnttfac*.

barracks,

Sect. IV.

SPAIN.

163

barracks, but no bedding. There is the fame allowance to all, one pound and a Pamhok* half of brown bread and about five farthings each in money. A loaf, weighing C, TADEI" exactly three pounds, is given to every soldier every other day j but for the prisoners, it is divided, and one half given them every day, to prevent them from felling it.*—Thofe who have only a ring, find securities for not escaping, and lbme-times are employed in the houses in the citadel, and paid for their labour. If they escape, their securities are obliged to put on the chain and to take their places.

If they are retaken, their term is doubled.

Some for more atrocious crimes are sent to Carthagena, and others to the African settlements.

Here is a large building called the Mifcricordia, similar to the bofpicio in Madrid, Miseki-in which are confined beggars, vagrants, and refractory children. Workmen also COED, A-are here employed, and apprentices taken, to carry on a manufactory of coarse cloth.

Near the Misericordia there is an Hospital for orphans or children of the poor (los Hospitat ninos de la dollrina). They are taught to read and work, and the boys serve in the churches. Their number was forty-five boys and thirteen girls. This house is in part supported by the contributions of those who play at ball, in a building erected by the city for that diversion, which is here a favourite one. j-

At the great Hospital I found the men’s wards very dirty, J but the women’s clean.

There is a distinA ward for chirurgical patients, and also wards for lick prisoners.

I observed, that the fame attention was paid to them, as to the other patients, for I twice attended one of the' physicians through the wards. All the patients lie

In this City the bread was remarkably good and cheap; and T found the loaves, at different timt£, the full standard weight.

lb. ex.

for three halfpence, five farthings, two pence.

French bread was lb. 1 ex. 10

Fine Spanish bread *! io£

Good brown bread 2 10

f At Madrid also, a part of the money collected at the play-house and at the bull-feafs, is appro* pirated to the support of the hospitals.

J The floors Of moll hospitals in Spain, are laid with a soft and bad brick, and they are sometimes fprittkltd but never washed. In the men’s wards no women attend. What renders the wards in general so dose and olFenfive as many are, is the practice of continually taking snuff and spitting; together with an universal prejudice which prevails in this country, (though lo hot a climate), against the free admilEon of air, and walking of rooms. The custom of walhin£ the feet and hands of patient! be foie they are put to bed, which I have observed in some hospitals, is not known here.*—I am persuaded, however, that such a custom, with air and cleanliness, and an abstemious diet, are of more necessary importance in hospitals than any adminiflratioit of physick.

Y 2

single;

164

Lille

Pkzsoks.

ClT/.DEL.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

GngW; and this salutary practice is general in the Spanish hospitals. Near the women’s ward, nine or ten infants lay bound hands and feet in a fraoky kitchen. In a spadous room just by, the governess lodged. On my mentioning to the physician before her, that the infants should be in that room and not in the kitchen; {he said it was too cold for them. I replied, the true reason was, that ihe thought they would disturb her rest.

Before I take my leave of Spain, I must make my most grateful acknowledgments of the kind assistance given me in my tour through it by Sir John Hart, Count Fenm-Nnn the Spanish ambaftador at Lisbon, and Count Campmiaet at Madrid.

FRENCH FLANDERS and FRANCE.

TThe French provinces in Flanders and the Netherlands, are chiefly governed by the fame arret deparlemeat as the provinces in France.

The Tear de St. Pierre at Lille is an old building. There were in it. May 24, 1783, three debtors, five smugglers and four vagrants. Five were lick in a very offensive room, with only one bed. Allowance is one pound and a half of bread. The finall and dark dungeons down fifteen steps, I was glad to find unoccupied.

I have reason to be abundantly thankful for recovery from a fever which I caught of the sick, in this prison, at my last visit; and would make my grateful acknowledgment to that Had band, by which I have been hitherto preserved.

At the Gfjt prison there were fourteen prisoners: their allowance consists of bread, butter, and small beer. The dungeons were empty.

The unhealthy countenances of the prisoners at the Citadel shew the pernicious effects of lying in caftms, or damp rooms under the fortifications. May 26, 1783, here were three hundred and forty prisoners, moil of them deserters. In the lick-rooms, which were very dose and dirty, there were eighty-six; some of whom, though dying, were in irons. The Jcttraj has lately made great havock here.— Particular attention should be paid to air and cleanliness, where prisoners have no employment. Humanity to them, and also to their keepers and visitors, demands this.—The obfenrarion of a sensible magifbate at Hanover, here occurs to my mind: " We have found, ” fays he, " that the convicts or (laves who are committed for life, “ ruin the morals of those who are condemned only for a year or (wo; therefore, “ by a late regulation in the electorate, they are now kept apart.”—Such a regulation here would be beneficial in every view.

In

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

In the General hospital for the poor of both sexes there were about two thousand in May 1783. Thole advanced in years are allowed one third of their earnings. There were upwards of three hundred of the girls making lace, for each 'piece of which they are rewarded with a small donation. Many of the boys, though lodged and boarded here, learn trades in the city; and at twenty years of age, all of both sexes are discharged from the*hospital. The girls looked healthy, and their dormitories, infirmaries, and work-rooms were clean.—The internal regulations of this house, and of the infirmary, (HStel-Dieu), are very good; but (taking up more than twenty quarto pages) they are too long to be inserted.

The two Hospitals La Comteffe and St. Sauveur are lofty buildings, designed only for the admifilon of men, for in this city the hospital last described is the only one that takes in women. The patients are distinguished into three dalles, viz. wounded— very lick—and recovering. Each class has a separate ward, and every patient a separate bed. When a sick person arrives at either of these hospitals, his bed is immediately shewed him; after which one of the lifters brings warm water to him, walhes his feet, dries them, and killes one foot. Another brings clean lheets and a clean towel. A man-servant makes and warms the bed, and the patient goes directly into it. All the patients are kindly attended by the nuns, but from prejudices caused by their retired mode of living, some inconveniences arise, such as, neglect of walhing the rooms and opening the windows; in consequence of which, the wards arc rendered offensive, and very unhealthy, particularly in the night-time.

In the prison at Arras I observed one circumstance which was different from what I had seen in France. Of one hundred and thirty-nine prisoners, I saw two in the court who had irons. But upon alking one of them the reason of it, he told me “ it was for attempting an escape.”

At Amiens are two prisons; one for Let Bourgeois et Le Libertinage , the other, La Conciergerie.—In the town-house, I saw great numbers attending the trial of a woman for confining her Ion. He was then about thirty-two years of age, and had been confined sixteen years, with a severity which had almost deprived him of his intellects. The prosecution was carried on by his father's relations, who had been long felicitous for his release.

In or near Paris the principal prisons were the Conciergerie, Grand and Petit Chatelet, For-l'Eveque, L'Abbaye, and the Bicelre. But at my visit in 1783 I found two of the worst of them. Petit Chatelet and For-l’Eveque, with their horrid dungeons, entirely decnolilhed. The debtors now are sent to a new prison, the Hotel de la Force; and criminals are sent to the Conciergerie, or the Grand Chatelet.—The king’s Declaration for this alteration, dated the 30th of August 1780, contains feme of the most humane and enlightened sentiments respecting the conduit of prisons. It mentions the construction of airy and spacious infirmaries for the sick; separate places of confinement, and courts, for men and women, and for prisoners of different classes , and a total abolition

of

16 s

Lille

Hospitals.

Arras.

Amiens.

Paris.

166

FOREIGN PRISONS.

fnii. cf wider-ground dungeons, upon this principle, that it is unjust, that those who may

possibly be innocent, should beforehand differ a rigorous funishment.

Most prisons in the city hare three or four doors, from four feet to four and a half high, separated from each other by a little area or court. Within the inner door is, in some prisons, a turnfiile. The number and lowness of the doors (at each of which you must stoop) and the turnstiles, effectually prevent the prisoners rufiling out.

In most of the prisons there are five or six turnkeys, viz. two or three at the doors: one walking in the court, to prevent conferring and plotting (a circumstance to which French gaolers are very attentive) :' one at the women’s ward: and every day one of them is abroad, or otherwise at leifine. This liberty they have in rotation. They are strictly prohibited, under severe penalties, from receiving any thing of the prisoners, directly or indirectly, on any pretence whatever. The gaoler is obliged to board them; and to pay each of them at least one hundied Irores a year.

I was furpriled at seeing that none of the prisoners in the courts were in irons. No gaoler (I was informed) may put them on a prisoner, without an express order from the judge. And yet in some of the prisons, there were more criminals than in any of our London gaols. When I was first there, the number had been recently increased by an insurrection on account of the scarcity of com. My reader will perhaps prricntly fee reason to conclude, that the manner in which prisons are conducted makes the confinement more tolerable, and chains less needful. Indeed it was evident, from the very appearance of the prisoners in some of the gaols, that humane attention was paid to them.

Most of the courts are paved j and they are waihed in dimmer once or twice a day. One would hardly believe how this freihens the air in the upper rooms. I felt this very sensibly once and again when I was in the chambers: and an Englishmen, who had the misfortune to be a prisoner, made the fame remark. I seldom or ever found in any French prison that offensive finell which I had often perceived in English gaols. I sometimes thought these courts were the cleanest places in Paris. One circumstance that contributed to it, besides the number of turnkeys, was that most of them were near the river.

As prisoners are not properly separated, it is difficult to keep such as become the king's evidence apart from the rest: the gaoler of Le Petit CPStelet was obliged ro fit up a separate room for that purpose.

Prisoners, especially criminals, attend mass almost every day, and the gaoler or a turnkey with them *. but such of them as are Protestants are excused. No person is admitted into any prison during the time of divine service.

As condemned criminals generally throw off all refenre, and by relating their various adventures and fuccds, prove pernicious tutors to young and less practised offenders; care is taken to prevent this mischief, by fending those who are sentenced

to

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

to the galleys, to a separate prison. La ‘toumelle, near the Port de St. Bernard-, where they are kept till the time for their being carried off. Before they are sent hither they are branded. Some continue here many months; but their term commences two days after sentence. I heard that about two hundred were sent from that prison to Marseilles and Toulon, a week or two before I was there, in 1776. At my visit in 1778, I found only fifteen prisoners, who were chained two and two together. In 1783, there were ninety-three. Their daily allowance is one pound and a half of good bread, and half a pound of meat, and soup. On mature days they are allowed pease in their soup. On their journey they have two pounds of bread, half a pound of meat, a pint of wine, and about a quarter of a pound of cheese, or eggs. They are sent from hence to Marseilles, Toulon, Brest, &c. on the 2jth of May and the roth of September, and are joined with many other convicts from the provinces.

I was informed, that in May 1778, one hundred and sixty-three went off from this prison.

To prevent the frequent coniequences of desperation, no one condemned to death by the inferior court is without hopes of life, till the parliament confirms or reveries the sentence: and they never make known their decilion, till the morning of the day on which a prisoner is to suffer. Then they publish a confirmation of the former sentence; and it is fold in the streets. Executions are often in the afternoon: the last that I saw was by torch-light: but the criminal was almost dead by the torture before his execution.

The chambers are opened at seven in the morning, from November ill to Easter; at six, from Easter to November; and shut in the evening at six, from November ift to Easter; at seven, from Easter to November. But debtors have an hour more at night. This they commonly spend in the court; as they do not choose to be-there in the day-time, among felons. Common-fide prisoners are obliged to come out of their night-rooms at the forementioned morning-hours; experience having shewn, that lying in bed and idleness, are prcdudtive of the Jicurvy and other distempers. Women are kept quite separate from men.

Taking garnish, or footing, is strictly prohibited. If prisoners demand of a new comer any thing of that fort, on whatever pretence; if, in order to obtain it, they distress him by hiding his clothes &c. they are shut up for a fortnight in a dark dupgeon, and suffer other punishment. They are obnoxious to the fame chastisement for hiding one another’s clothes, or being otherwise injurious.

The daily allowance to criminals is a pound and a half of good bread, and some soup. The soup is not made, nor is any other provision dressed, in the prisons. They have clean linen once a week, from a feciety, which was instituted about the year 1753. The occasion of it was the prevalence of a contagious disease which in France they call U fcoriut, the scurvy. This distemper was found to proceed from the prisons; and to spread in the Hitel-Dieu, whither prisoners that had it were

167

Pahs.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

i6«

Puis-

removed. The cause of it was generally thought to be watt of cleanlmefs in frijotus where several of those confined had worn their linen for many months, and infefted the most healthy new-comers that were put in the room with them. Eight hundred were ill of it at once in the hospital of St. Louis, to which all that were sick of it in the Hetel-Dieu had been carried. By the Abbe Breton's exerting himself on this occasion, a fund was raised to support prisonen in the Grand Chateltt with clean linen every week. This put an effectual Hop to the malady in that prison. Numbers afterwards joined the society; the King and Queen honoured it with their contributions; and the charity extended to three other prisons: so that at lad:, seven hundred priibners were provided for in the same manner, and a stock of linen requisite for that purpose, viz. five thousand Ihirts, was completed. The elder prisoners have charge of the linen that is in the prison; they receive it (every Saturday) and return it, and are gratified by the society j which continues to the present time.* Besides this, there is scarce a prison in the city that has not a patroness; f a lady of character, who voluntarily takes care that rhofe in the infirmaries be properly attended; supplies them with fuel, and linen; does many kind office? to the prisoners in general; and by soliciting the charity of others, procures not only the relief and comforts mentioned already, but loup twice a week, and meat once a fortnight.

There is also annually at each prison somewhat like our charity sermons; public service in the chapel, and a collection. On thele occasions the patroness attends; as I saw at Christmas 1778, and loon after found the prisoners supplied with clothes.

Thole who deep on draw, pay the gaoler no fee at entrance, or discharge; but they pay one feu or halfpenny a day; and have clean draw once a month: those in the dungeons, once a fortnight. These latter are seldom let out; never in the court.

All the regulations are ordered to be read in the chapel to prisoners, the fird Sunday of every month, by the chaplain; and they are hung up in the prison for common infpc&ion. If any prisoner tears, or otherwise damages them, he differs corporal punishment: if a regiIter or gaoler does lo, he is fined twenty livres: if a turnkey, he is discharged.

The discipline observed is so exact, that at the fire in the Gentiergerie, the numerous prisoners (as I was informed) were removed without any condition, or a single escape. There are good rules for preserving peace; for suppressing pro-fanenefs; for prohibiting gaolers or turnkeys abudng prisoners by beating them or otherwise; J forbidding their furnishing them with wine or spirituous liquors,

For 1 further account of this majt nfefal institution, fee Cede dt la Police. 1767. Tom. I. /. 510, &c.

t f Trtjorieres cm Dames de charite.

I MonSeor G*j da Rsajfiaad de U Combe% is his Traite da Mafiera CrimimtlUiy Paris, 1769, fuaric, 6th edition, cites at page 339, an arret of parliament in the (aft century, that condemned a gaoler to be hanged, bscanfe he let a prisoner perish for want of food.

Sect. IV.

FRANCE.

so as to cause excels, drunkenness, &c. Keepers are punished for this, when known to the magistrates, by a fine for the first offence; and for the second by stripes.

They are allowed to fell some things to their prisoners; but the quality, quantity and price muff be such as the ordinances of police define and require.

The turnkeys viiic the dungeons four times a day; in the morning when the prisons are opened, at noon, at six in the evening, and at ten at night. I was lorry to find the humanity which is so conspicuous in the forementioned, and other excellent rules, so deficient as to continue the use of those subterraneous abodes; which are totally dark, and beyond imagination horrid and dreadful. Poor creatures are confined in them night and day for weeks, for months together. If the turnkeys find any prisoners lick, they mull acquaint the physician and surgeon, who visit them; and if needful, order them to more wholesome rooms till they recover.

A prisoner of rank, a very sensible man, to whom I was speaking concerning gaolers in 1778, said, “ They pay nothing to the crown, and their revenue is not “ small; at the Conciergerie, it is about fifteen thousand livres; at the Grand-Chitelet, " twenty thousand; at For-l’Eveque, twenty thousand; at the Petit-Chatelet, twelve “ thousand; at LJAbbayc, ten thousand. And all things considered," he added, “ prisoners have no just reason to complain of this class of men in France.”

The nomination of a gaoler belongs to the magistrates. When he has been nominated, he is proposed to the frocureur general j and if, after a careful inquiry into his character, it appears that he has the reputation of a man of probity, he is fixed in the office, and takes an oath of fidelity. The office is freely given him without any expence whatever j so that keepers are not tempted, by paying for their places, to oppress their prisoners: to remove all pretext for so doing, rents which they formerly paid to the crown are remitted, and the leases given up.

As for debtors, their number is small. Of the two hundred and two prisoners in the Conciergerie, in 1778, but six were debtors. In the other prisons there were a few more. This perhaps is owing to the following good arrets. Every bailiff who arrelts and imprisons a debtor, must pay to the gaoler in advance, a month’s aliment or subsistence, i. e. ten livres ten fous, equal to nine shillings English (provisions are at Paris cheaper in general than at London): and if the like sum be not paid within fourteen days after the end of every month, the prisoner is set at liberty. Besides this, the debtor pays no colls of arrests. &c. The whole of them falls on the creditor: and so do all expences occasioned by his sickness or death.

As the bed regulations are liable to be abuled, prisoners are not thought sufficiently provided for by enaBing good laws: the execution of them is carefully attended to The substitutes of the attorney-general (should) visit the prisons. once a week, to inquire if the rules be observed j to hear complaints of prisoners 5 to fee if the sick be properly attended; and the like. — Besides this, the parliament of Paris fends to all the prisons live times a year two or three counfelkrs with n jubfiitute of

169-

Paris.

170

FOREIGN PRISONS.

the atttnej-gaurtl, and two clerks. They go at Christmas, Easter, Whitsuntide, one day before i jth August, St. Simon and Jude. There is in each prison (as in other foreign gaols) a room for their reception called the coumil-chamber. It is occupied at other times by the head-gaoler.

The arrival of this deputation is announced by boys, who, though offenders, are allowed to do little errands in the prison: these go round the court and into every room, giving notice of it aloud. The deputies go, without the gaoler or turnkeys, into every room and dungeon, and

iff. They aik the priibners one by one, if they have any complaint to make of the gaoler or his servants. But they never meddle with those who are confined by an order from the king.

2. They receive the petitions of priibners who have been detained too long without trial.

J. In calc of debts not exceeding two thousand livres (about ninety pounds) if the debtor can raise a third part of his debt, and no more, they receive it for the creditors. How they clear him of the remaining two thirds, I will Ihew prciently. They take notes of these matters in the prison; and give an account of all to the parliament, at their general public meeting a day or two after.

In behalf of priibners who have not been tried, the parliament commonly OFders the attorney-general to write in their name to the inferior judges, inquiring the causes of delay, or ordering expedition. If a prisoner be acquitted, he is discharged within twenty-four hours.

The laws of France do not in ordinary cases admit a debtor to bail without the consent of his creditor. Bur in the case mentioned above, the parliament obliges creditors to accept of bail lor the remainder of debts under two thousand livres. And even this bail sains a matter of mere form; for they lometimes take for bail men that are insolvent. I have heard there is no Handing law for this; and that it is rather an unmemorial custom: because the parliament enacts a particular law for each case as it occurs. In France there are no insolvent acts.—When prisoners have received their liberty from the king, or their creditors, they cannot be detained a moment for fees, hire of rooms, debts contracted in prison, or on any pretence

whatever.

The deputies hear no complaints of the gaoler against his priibners. When he has any to make, he applies to the chief justice, by whose order the prisoner was

committed. If he was imprisoned by an order from the king, he applies to the lieutenant-general of the police; if without such an order, to the lieutenant-criminaL

Besides the deputation now mentioned, the parliament appoints to each prison one of their own body, a counsellor. They always choose a gentleman of fortune and good chara&cr: he is called Commissaire de Id Prison. His business is much like

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

that of the deputation; and his office perpetual. By frequent discourse with

prisoners I learned, that these officers are Very humane to the distressed. They can (as the parliament) oblige creditors to accept one third part of debts under twd thousand livres: but they uie this power with much caution.

The Concicrgcric has an airy court (fifty-five yards by thirty-eight) with a fine piazza. The dungeons are dark and offensive. There is a new infirmary, with beds admitting only one patient in each. At my farmer infits here was a tap-ream, which new, ta the honour af the police, is abolished. At several visits in 1783 the prisoners were calm and quiet.*

At the Grand- Chdfelet, as well as the Cenciergerie, the prisoners pay for their rooms according to their goodness; even those who lie on draw pay one fou a night. In this prison there are eight dungeons, which open into dark passages. In tour of these dungeons (ten feet eight inches by six feet eight) I saw sixteen prisoners, two in irons, and all lying upon straw.f L'Abbaye is a Prison for the military or guards, and for stich debtors as are men of rank. In the debtors -rooms a partition of lath and platter, detached from the brick-wall, answers the end of an expedient to prevent escapes: for if the smallest perforation be made in the partition, it is immediately discovered, by the mortar falling between that and the wall into the keeper’s court, through the aperture which is left for that purpose. Here are six small dungeons, in which, as the gaoler said, there were sometimes fifty confined.

The number of prisoners in the Cauiirgtrie, Jane 1, 1776, and May 15, 1783.

On draw. - Men 99 — 126

Women 22 — O

In the Infirmary, Men >3 — 18

Women *4 — O

In the dungeons. Men *5 — 16

Prisoners who pay for their rooms 29 — zz

Total 202 182

Some pay in this prison forty-five liws a month for a room; Come twenty-two and a half; others seven and a half. A livre is = 10J.1L

f The number of prisoners May 16, 1783, in the Gra*d-Chmttltt.

In rooms, - - 47.

On draw, - - 209.

In dungeons, - 16.

In infirmaries, - 33.

Total 305.

1 chofc to visit the prifooers in the dungeons, on rudgrt days, becanfe their allowance then being only bread, a little prefect of wine is the more acceptable.

Z 2

171

Paris.

CoHCIEl-

C1III.

Grand-

Chateiet.

L’ABBATt.

The

'7*

FOREIGN prisons.

Paris

Hotel

OS LA

Force.

$AIST-

Maktie.

Saiit-

Eloj.

The Hitti dt la Farce, a tew Priftm for debtors, (vagrants, deserters and petty offenders) has been occupied only from January 1782. It is an airy and (pacious building, and has several courts and areas for the reparation of men, and women, and the different kinds of prisoners. The courts are all clean and well supplied with water. The number of debtors was seventy-eight men and eleven women. Over their doors are painted the price to be paid for the beds from five to thirty foils a night. There are also rooms and beds for debtors that cannot pay: all the prisoners that are poor have one pound and a half of bread and Coup every day.*

Here are two chapels, an airy infirmary, for each sex, and a well furnished apothecary’s shop, from which this, and the other prisons arc supplied with drugs. Here are fourteen turnkeys, twelve every day on duty in separate departments; but in case of any riot or disorder they can readily assist one another: rwo walk in each of the men’s courts.—By the lift sent into the office of the police. May 17, 1783, the number of prisoners of all descriptions was two hundred and seventy-one, of whom many were deserters.

The arret of parliament of the 19th of February 1782, for the regulation of this prison, containing twenty-nine articles, is ordered to be read in the chapels before all the prisoners on the first Sunday of every month, and to be fixed on the doors of the chapels, and on several other conspicuous parrs of the prison.-f - The Priftm of Soiut-Martin is for loose women, who are seldom confined here for more than fourteen days. Here are fix rooms for those that pay fix lirres a*month for their beds, and four rooms for those that lie on straw. On the upper floor there are three rooms (called secrete) for the punishment of the refractory. The court is finalL At my last visit there were one hundred and fifteen prisoners, fb that the rooms were crowded. The damp dungeons are now not used.

The Prison of Saint-Eloi, intended for women, is liruated in a very dole part of the city. Here were thirty-eight prisoners; some of whom had been confined three or four years. All were troubled with a cutaneous disorder, and some to a very

At Paris and Bordeaux* in May 1783, tie fine white bread was two pence per pound—second fort, three halfpence—and brows bread, eight ponsds for nine peace: but at some distance.from Paris a list of the weight and price of bread was put up for public iafpedioa, which I here copy*

Prur dm Pain dans h Maripexfat D'jfrpagsn*

Pain It pint Mane, fe/ant 9 hvret—\% Jcls.

Pain etmmna, PeJdnt 9 livres—16/oh.

Pain Ms, P*Jdsa 9 Uteres—13 Jel*.

A Jol or fim is equal to a halfpenny English.

f Mod of the articles of this arris are similar to those of the excellent arris of 1717; but the eleventh article being new, 1 will copy it. Let prijomaisrt ns pdkrtas a I’avenir am droit dfentree ri ds jerti* dt la priftm. ” i. e. Prisoners ftxall pay no fee at coning in or going oot of the prison.

great-

"Sect. IV.

FRANCE.

»7 3

great degree. No court. Each has one pound and a half of bread a day, and (from Paais. a charity) soup four times a week.

At the Hotel de ville there are two rooms, in which were two men and a woman.

The Bicetre is upon a small eminence about two miles from Paris. If it were Bicetre. only a prison, I should call it an enormous one; but this for men, like the Salpitriere for women, is indeed a kind of general hospital. Of about four thousand men that are within its walls, not one half are prisoners. The majority are $ the four, who wear a coarlc brown uniform, and seem as miserable as the poor in some of our country work-houses: the infant: and those that have the venereal disease. Each fort is in a court and apartments totally separate from the other, and from crhoinalf.

Some are in little rooms about eight feet square, window three feet and a half by two feet, with a grate, but not many glazed: there is but one prisoner- in a room.

These pay two hundred livres a year for their board. The number of these rooms is two hundred and ninety-six. There are Others in two large rooms called La Force, on the other fide of the court (La Cottr Rcyale) which were crowded with prisoners: in 1778, there were upwards of two hundred. Such a number confined together in idleness, must produce a great corruption of manners. Many at their unhappy end have aferibed their ruin to the flagitious examples they had here seen, and the instructions here given them.

Over the two rooms La Force, there is a general infirmary j and over that, an infirmary for the fcorbuti a distemper very common and fatal among them. There were sixty-three patients in 1778, most of them ill of this disorder. They contracted it in a year or two, from their confinement, as they were never fuflfered to go out of their rooms. Many loft the use of their limbs by it. I saw several such miserable objects at St, Louis's hospital, where they are often admitted at the expiration of their term at the Bicetre.

In the middle of La Corn- Royale are eight dreadful dungeons down sixteen steps: each about thirteen feet by nine: with two strong doors; three chains fattened to the wall j and a stone funnel at one corner of each cell, for air. From the situation of these dreary caverns, and the difficulty I found in procuring admittance, I conclude hardly any other stranger ever saw them: that is my reason, and I hope will be an apology, for mentioning the particulars.

Prisoners make straw-boxes, tooth-picks, See. and fell them to vilitants. I viewed the men with some attention; and observed in the looks of many a settled melancholy: many others looked very sickly. This prison is not so well managed as those in the city: it is very dirty: no fire-place in any of the rooms: and in the severe cold in 1775, several hundreds perished.

Water in plenty was thought of such importance here, that they have a stone well which is a curiosity. It was funk in 1735 j is fifteen feet diameter, and near seventy yards deep. The two buckets hold each about three hogsheads: at my former visits

they

»74

FOREIGN PRISONS.

p'"* they were drawn of by hories, and emptied themselves into a referaeir, sixty-four b,cet*e- feet square, and nine deep. A bucket was drawn up in five minutes. They worked fixreen hours every day, not excepting Sundays; and drew daily about five hundred hogsheads. Three hories worked at a time, and twelve were kept for the service.

The Frettb are now sensible of the bad police of confining persons in idleness; for of late they have here set their prisoners to work. 1 saw in 1783, one hundred and twenty employed in three rooms, in polilhing &c. plate glass: and the water was drawn by seventy-two prisoners, in three Jets, each Jet working one hour at a time; and five hours in a day. They draw sixteen buckets an hour, and about two hundred and forty buckets daily, and are paid for each bucket two fous and a half. The prisoners are much healthier than they were at my former visits.

Sat- The great hospital, or Salpitriere, near the city, is for women and girls, their

rr r iieie. nurnber ;s upwaItjs of five thousand. Many of the girls are employed on the fined embroidery. Here are numbers of poor and insane; and a sisterhood of relipeujes reside in the house. The criminals are quite separate from the others, and seldom seen by strangers. There are but few of theft employed.—At my last visit there were eight hundred and twenty confined, moll of them by their parents or relations. Many of their lodging-rooms are fix feet ten inches by five feet seven. There are three infirmaries; in two of them the patients lay in single beds, but the other (for criminals) was crowded, and had three in a bed. The whole house was kept clean and quiet by the great attention of the good filters.

Bastill£. The SaJHUe may occur to some of my readers, as an object concerning which some information would be acceptable. I am happy to be able to give this, by means of a pamphlet published in 1774, written by a person who was long confined in this prison. It is reckoned the bed account of this celebrated structure ever published; and the sale of it being prohibited in France under very severe penalties, it is become extremely scarce. I have extracted the most material circumstances of the description, and have caused the plate to be copied from that in the work.

“ This castle is a date prison, confiding of eight very (trong towers, Unrounded with a fojsc about one hundred and twenty feet wide, and a wall sixty feet high. The entrance is at the end of the street of St. Antoine, by a drawbridge, and great gates into the court of I’Hotel dm Getroenument; and from thence over another drawbridge to the corps de garde, which is separated by a drong barrier constructed with beams plated with iron, from the great court. This court is about one hundred and twenty feet by eighty. In it is a fountain; and fix of the towers forround it, which are united by walls of free-done ten feet thick of to the top. At the bottom of this court is a large modern corps de lops, which separates it from the court du Puits. This court is fifty feet by twenty-five. Contiguous to it, arc the other two towers. On the top of the towers is a platform continued in terraces, on which the prisoners are

Each naa draws about 14lb, or half as much as those that are accoftomed to labour.

fomecimes

-J-----3E-----J-----Ft*

K~At'rmrr /y t/ir c/' S*AiUome.

B Jiulntprir fc/ituf //nt/r firi/tyr.

C JJtrtrf d" (ift/vr/tt/truf,

D J*i&t rrurt.

Bh^w/w tnuftn// tt> Mrymtf orwrt. Y.Gntrj of Mr ^w/ m/rf <C* </r*M firrttyr.

Grfrj/itrtfr.

H. (imiftvfttf /wM/tt Mr /wrnt.

\.S(/ttr ntJr ftrrM'ny 6> Mr CPttnri/ c/mw/v?', K. CrntHtty Marnfor.

\t.Crurt dnBdts.

M,9fay f»Mryanfrtt.

N. ffyfe/ fa Mr f/rtnMt.

O. Gtirrfm.

P. Fofsc*.

QJtyCrurt/rfo Mr finumi/ytrtvfrn. i.Tlwrr duPuiti.

2.7twrr delaLiberte. nJ*H*trr drlaBertaodiere. 4.Tt*tfrr deBinniere.

&.Tf#t,rt‘ dela Comte.

6Jbtt>r r du TrewJf. f.Trt/rr del* ChiptBe. ti.Twrr do. Coin.

Sect. IV. FRANCE.

iometimes permitted to walk, attended by a guard. On this platform are thirteen cannons mounted, which are discharged on days of rejoicing. In the cotfs it legis is the council-chamber, and the kitchen, offices, &c. above these are rooms for pri-lbners of distinction, and over the council-chamber the king’s lieutenant resides. In -the court du Putts is a large well for the use of the kitchen.

“ The dungeons of the tower it la liberte extend under the kitchen, &c. Near that tower is a small chapel on the ground-floor. In the wall of it are five nitches or closets, in which prisoners are put one by one to hear mass, where they can neither fee nor be seen.

“ The dungeons at the bottom of the towers exhale the moll: offensive scents, and are the receptacles of toads, rats, and other kinds of vermin. In the corner of each is a camp-bed, made of planks laid on iron bars that are fixed to the walls, and the prisoners are allowed some draw to lay on the beds. These dens are dark, having no windows, but openings into the ditch: they have double doors, the inner ones plated with iron, with large bolts and locks.

“ Of the five classes of chambers, the moil: horrid next to the dungeons are those in which are cages of iron. There are three of them. They are formed of beams with strong plates of iron, and are each eight feet by fix.

“ The calottes, or chambers at the top of the towers, are lomewhat more tolerable. They are formed of eight arcades of free-stone. Here one cannot walk but in the middle of the room. There is hardly sufficient (pace for a bed from one arcade to another. The windows, being in walls ten feet thick, and having iron grates within and without, admit but little light. In these rooms the heat is excessive in dimmer, and the cold in winter. They have stoves.

“ Almost all the other rooms (of the towers) are oflagons, about twenty feet in diameter, and from fourteen to fifteen high. They are very cold and damp. Each is furnished with a bed of green serge, See. All the chambers are numbered. The prisoners are called by the name of their tower joined to the number of their room.

“ A surgeon and three chaplains reside in the castle. If prisoners of note are dangerously ill, they are generally removed, that they may not die in this prison.— The prisoners who die there are buried in the parish of St. Paul, under the name of domestics.

“ A library was founded by a prisoner who was a foreigner, and died in the BaJlille the beginning of the present century. Some prisoners obtain permission to have the use of it.

“ One of the centinels on the iqfide of the castle rings a bell every hour, day and night, to give notice that they are awake: and on the rounds on the outside of the castle they ring every quarter of an hour.”

1 have inserted so particular an account of this prison, chiefly with the design of inculcating a reverence for the principles of a frte constitution like our own, which

will

«7J

Bastille.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

176

will not permit in any degree the exercise of that defpotifin, which has rendered the name of BajHUe lo formidable.* I was desirous of examining it myself; and for that purpose knocked hard at the outer gate, and immediately went forward through the guard to the drawbridge before the entrance of the caltle. But while I was comtemplating this gloomy manlion, an officer came out much surprised; and 1 was forced to retreat through the mute guard, and thus regained that freedom, which for one locked up within those walls it is next to impossible to obtain.

Many of my readers, acquainted with the ftridf police of France, would have suppoled that the other prisons would have been as inaccessible to a visitant as the Bt/HUe. And indeed my first application for admittance at the Grand Chatelet was unfuccdsful. But fortunately remarking the tenth article j- of the arrit 1717, I pleaded it before the Commissaire de la Prison, to whom I was referred, and by its means gained admission as well into that prison, as those of Le Petit Chatelet and Fer-l’Evejue, and had an opportunity of seeing almost every individual confined in them.

HosriTAis. The Hospitek of Samt-Ijnas and the Hotel-Diem for the lick, are the two word hospitals that I ever vihted. They were so crowded, that formerly I have often seen five or six in one bed, and some of them dying.

The Hotel-Diem is situated in the closest part of die city. J The new wards are too low. In 1783, the hospital was cleaner than at my former visits, but in the great ward (St. Charles) and in the women's wards, many of the patients were two or three in a bed.

Sir tf/iliom Blerijhmr observes, that the prefemdon of personal liberty is of great importance to the pnhHc: “ for if once it were left in the power of any, the highest, magistrate to imprison arbitrarily “ whomever he or his officers thought proper, (as in France it is daily pra&iied by the crown [I) there “ would toon be an end of all other rights and immunities.”

| I fan* bean aflored apea good authority, that, daring the mild adauaistration of cardinal TUmrj, above 54*000 Uttrn it were ifacd, epoo the fiagk ground of the famous taJJt I/igr»ifi)." fwnfni ji. Book L Chaps 1.

t The article is as fellows.

“ Lapcliers ctcdtiremt Us ferfimms pi viendremt fmrt its chmritts Jams Us licmx ds U prifam w tIUs “ ij/fifiii/ Us SJfriiwtr, p'eUcs fcmrrmt fmirt elUs-WBcmcs far U premm cm dsms I* mr; mm Us msmemts me /aerratf (trt dishihsies dmms Us emebets murt pc fmr Us menu du gnliert cm frefcmcc det perfammes ftd Us

t Oo« cannot bat wilh9 that after the fire in the Hitd-Dic* a few years since, the hospital had been rcaoved to a more airy fination.

% Over one of the gates of the Hitd-Diem is the following inscription, which, frost its application VDfaubmpUcr, has an air of ridicule and even of profanenefi.

C'tfi icy Ik Mmifam de Diem, it lm Perte dm Chi.”

The

Sect. IV.

FRANCE.

*77

ThtHoJpital of Saint-Louis Hands out of the city. There is a considerable ascent P*«i» to the wards, and there is no floor over them. They were dirty and noisy, and in Hospitals. many of the beds there were three patients.—According to the lifts I procured at my visits in 1783, the number of patients was.

Hotel-Dieu. St. Louis,

May 6, 1709, - 662.

— 16, 1707, - 694.

1 1 1 to O 1657, - 660.

— 21, 1 00 0 r- M 66l.

Number received in 1782, 21484, - 3898.

Died 3899,* - 899.

Though these two hospitals are a disgrace to -Paris, it has many other charitable foundations which do honour to it; and from which this country may derive useful information.

The Htjpital of La Charite for men, is one of the Deft in Paris. There are now two hundred and three beds, and another ward is nearly' finished, twenty-six feet and a half wide. All the patients lie Angle; the furniture of their beds is green, and they wear a uniform of the fame colour. Here is lately made a convenient walk for the patients. The presentation of beds is bought, and descends to heirs; the price for a bed is twelve thousand livres, as I was informed by one of the fathers. The beds are always occupied; except three or four which are reserved, that immediate attention may be always paid to a patron’s presentation. This hospital does honour to the order of St. Jean de Dieu: the friars chambers are over the wards, which I think improper, because it may occasion the windows of the wards to be too often (hut.

This fraternity has also the charge of the bojfital for ConvalefccntS, which conllfts of a hall with a brick-floor containing twenty-one beds. Adjoining is a refectory, where the patients (who continue here only eight days) have four meals a day, oiz. at fix, nine, twelve and a half, and five o’clock. They are allowed meat and wine every day in the year, Good-Friday excepted. I wish the French physicians were convinced of the necessity of washing (not sprinkling) the wards.

The Hopital des petites-Maisons is situated in a spacious garden or court, containing a number of small houses for the aged and infirm of both iexes, and single rooms for the insane. Here are also fix rooms for the sick, in which are a hundred and thirteen beds j a new room for forty beds is not yet occupied. The good Jifters kindly attend. The neatncfs and cleanliness I observed here engaged me often to repeat my visits.—

My learned friend Dr. Price will be pleased to find some alteration for the better in the Uittl-Dieu, for the number that died in 1782 was considerably under a fifth of'those that were admitted. See his Rtverfionary Payments, vol. I. p. Z96. 4th edit.

A. a

Rooms

FOREIGN PRISONS.

.7*

Paris

Hospitals.

Qtijsze-

tJSCTS.

For k d-tisc-Hospital.

Rooms in the hospital and beds in the iick wards are bought by the opulent, as asylums for aged domcftics and poor friends.

Madame Necker’s hospital is a noble example of private charity. It has beds for seventy men and fixry women, who are attended by fourteen of the fillers. The medical and chirurgical patients are separated. I advised walhing the men’s wards; but my advice has not been taken.

In the Hepital da Incurables there are about four hundred persons, mod of them aged and infirm, and clothed in a neat uniformj the men in grey, the women in black. Each has a bed, two chairs, a table and a cupboard. The furniture is changed twice in a year, in winter it is green woollen, in summer white linen; the house is then thoroughly cleansed: the rooms on the ground-floor open (very properly) into a ipacious and pleasant garden. The provisions were good, and served by the filters, forty of whom have the care of this hospital.—A presentarion here, formerly bought for ten thousand five hundred livres, is now raised to twelve thousand.

The Quarzt-vingts hospital was founded in 1260 for the accommodation of three hundred blind persons. Formerly they used to beg in the churches for subsistence; but lately, in eonlequence of the attention of Cardinal Rohan, and an increase of the rents, an income sufficient for supporting them has been obtained, and is now settled on them by an arret of March 14, 1783. They are divided into three dalles; single persons, who have twenty lous a day—married, twenty-six—and those who have been married twenty-two or twenty-three years, thirty-six lous: these allowances are paid every month. Each person has three pounds of salt given him thrice in the year. Wood for firing is also given to the moil necessitous. The parents of children are allowed two fous a day for every child under sixteen; besides a sum to put put their children to apprenticeships. Every indulgence is granted of walking out, visiting friends, &c. Several who have families increase the means of their subsistence by keeping little (hops. There were fifty-two of the third dafs at my visit in 1783.— The regulations arc hung up on the walls in several places. There are two rooms for confining the difbiderly.

An infirmary is designed, and ocnlifts are to be appointed, who, besides attending the infirmary, are to attend twice in the week to give advice to others who may apply to them. An annual sum is likewise to be offered for the belt dissertation on disorders of the eyes.—This hospital is a privileged place; and a chapel belongs to it in which divine service is conilactly performed.

At the Fonndling-be/pital near the Hotel-Dien, the infants lie in neat cradles with white furniture. May 21, 1783, there were here only fifty, the reason of which is, that they are lent into the country loon after they are received. They remain in the country five or six years, and when they are brought back, moll of the girls are placed at Salpitriere, and the rest with the boys in the suburb of St. Antoine; in which last place there were at this time four hundred and fifty boys and girls.—1 learned

from

Sject. IV.

FRANCE.

‘79

from the lifts which are made out every month, that the whole number of foundlings 1‘arjs. on this foundation on the ift of May 1783,’was thirteen thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven.

In the provincial gaols I saw little worth -noting, but what has been already Province*. mentioned at Paris. These also have charitable patronefies, who take care. that the prisoners be not defrauded of their allowance; and procure them farther relief. But these prisons do not seem to be lb carefully inspected as those in the city j although the arrets of parliament for regulation of both are for the most part similar, and were made in the same year, 1717. They are drawn up with found judgment, and accurate knowledge of the complex subject. I found many articles of them in the laws of other nations; but cannot say whether the French arrets were compiled from them, or followed by them.*

The 3ld article of the arret for the provinces requires that prisons be “ au raise dt cbaujpte,” level with the ground. \ Yet at Challons, and feme other towns, I saw many prisoners in dungeons; larger indeed, but in other respects not much better than those at Paris. In the four horrid ones at the Prison de St. Joseph (formerly a convent) Lyons. at Lyons, June 1776, were twenty-nine criminals; the heat so excessive, that few of them had any other garment on than their Ihirts. Some of them were lick: none looked healthy. In the nine other rooms of that gaol there were one hundred and twenty-eight prisoners; of which number twenty-two were women.

To the Pierre-en cize, a state prison at Lyons, you afeend by more than two hundred steps: among the few prisoners in it, I fat talking a while with one who said he was in the fiftieth year of his confinement.

1 cannot leave this city without giving a lhort account of the Hotel-Dieu, as it is Hotei.-the belt hospital I have seen in France. It is near the Rhone j the principal building D, EU is in the form of a cross, near three hundred feet from end to end both ways. The wards thirty-two feet wide, and twenty-five feet high; with apertures between the joists of the floor above, and two tier of windows; in many of them two casements.

Three rows of iron bedsteads in each ward. Under a dome in the centre is an oflagon altar, in view from every part of the ofcofs. Prayers, which are read there twice a day, can be heard through the wards. This part of the house is for those

They are printed in quarto. The arret for the city is dated 18th Jane: tt contains thirty-nine articles. The title is Arrejl dt la Ccur du Parlrnent, perl ant Regiment general peur let Prisons, droits tt functions Jit Grejfitrs des Geoles, Gtoliers et Gniebetiers defdites Prisons t Avtc It ¥arif des droits aiiribue r avfdits Gtoliers. The arret for the provinces, dated id September, has the fame title, except the Tarif,

It contains thirty-three articles. To this arret is annexed three others, viz. the office of clerks, gaolers and turnkeys—the aliment of priloners—and their attendance at mass.

f The foundation of this was probably the fird article upon prisons in the excellent criminal Ordonnanct de Lotus XIV. 1670, which directs that they shall be so disposed that tbt health of frifontrt fiso.ll net be incommoded.

that

FOREIGN PRISONS.

1S0

Ltojj that have fevers. There are other wards for the wounded; for lying-in-women; for

Hotel- founding*-, for the infant: allfeparate: and a room for chirurgical operations. The cross-wards are so airy, as not to be in the least offensive: and yet there are, in another part of the house, two upper rooms still more airy and pleasant (ebambres de cmrsaUfceust) .- to these they remove patients that are recovering; and those whom I saw there said they were very refrelhing. They come down from them at meals to a refectory. Thele rooms loon complete the patients recovery; and seem an excellent precaution again!! the flow hectic fever, of which our hospital-physicians lb frequently complain.* The whole was clean and quiet. There are eight chaplains; nine physicians and lurgeons; and twelve filters. These are ladies of a religious order, drefied in a neat uniform, who make up, as well as administer, all the medicines prescribed; for which purpose there is an elaboratory and apothecary’s lhop, confilting of five or six apartments, the neateit and most elegantly fitted up that can be conceived.—The front also of this hospital being very elegant, I give the plate.

Bogina At the Town-bouft in Bordeaux April 27,1783, there were in three rooms down twenty-seven Heps fifteen prisoners in irons, who told me they were never out. In two rooms down thirty-one lteps there were ten men and in another room, a woman. On the ground-floor there were many confined for flight offences.

In the Palais (the prison for the province), the men were in the court. The windows of the women’s two rooms were (improperly) towards the street.

The Hsufe of corrtSion (Maifoti dt Force) is in a convent. The rooms were neat and clean. There were twenty-four women at needle-work, who put on their veils when I entered the hall.

Hospital. The great Hospital is in a dole part of the city. The wards for men are on the first floor round a quadrangle. The women have three wards on the ground-floor, one for medical patients; one for chirurgical (blejfie), the other for those that are very ill. In many of the wards there were two in a bed. This hospital is kepr clean, as it is under the care of the religfeufes i who have also the care of the foundling hospital which is a Ipacious buildingfnear the river.

iT.OurE'i. At La Prison Rtyale, or the new prison, at St. Omer’s, the daily allowance is a pound and a half of bread, and soup. The prisoners have clean linen every week.

Dcneiec. In the prison at Dunkirk, the French prisoners were in two or three rooms by themselves.

I was indaced 10 take such particular notice of ibis hospital, from the recollection of something fitnilar to these chambers rf usnsale/cnct proposed by my ingenious friend Mr. Aikim of Warrington, in his Thraghts ca Hojpttah. I had not the pamphlet then with me, but have Since turned to the passage, and find he advises that all patients capable of fitting up, shoold remain through the day in large airy halls.”

Here

Sect. IV.

FRANCE.

181

Here (January 1779) I found many of my countrymen prisoners of war. In five Dunkirk. rooms there were a hundred and thirty-three—captains, mates, pajengers and tern- Prisoners men Jailors all crowded together—>who lay on straw, with one coverlet for every three persons. In three other rooms there were thirteen accommodated in a better manner, because most of them were ranfomers, and capable of paying fix fous a night for their beds.* The court was {mall, being only forty-two feet by twenty-six} nor was there sufficient plenty of water. The bread, beer, and soup were good, and the beef tolerable. In a former war, the contract here was twelve fous a man; in the last it was fifteen. Each room was supplied with two small faggots a day for firing. The Tick (of whom there were only three) were taken to the military hospital. The regulations were hung up in English f and.French.

A ranfimer is a person confined as a security, till the sum is paid for which a Blip has been ran/omtd»

t BY THE KING.

Rules to be observed by all Prisoners of War in the Kingdom of France.

Article I. The orders given by the commissary of the marines encharged with the care of the prisoners are to be ltriltly complied with unargued and undisputed. None of the prisoners shall infalt, threaten or abuse, much Iefs Hr ike the turnkey, nor any of those appointed to do business in the prison, under the penalty of incurring such punishment as shall be ordered by the commissary of the marines, and of losing turn of being exchanged; nay, further, they shall be dole confined and deprived of one half of iheir food or pittance.

Art. II. All and every prisoner, when the commissary makes review, shall answer to their name Or names, and if in the lift delivered to the commissary there be found auy error, they shall point it OUt, that it may be rectified, in order to prevent the confusion that might result from mistaking of names.

Art. III. All prisoners that shall refuse to answer to their names at the review, shall be punished by being deprived of their food till such time as they submit to the call.

Art. IV. If there happen any damage to the place where the prisoners are kept, whether it be with intent to make an escape, or otherwise purpoiely and wilfully committed, the expence for repairing such damage shall be paid out of the food of those that are found guilty of the infringement, and if there be no means of discovering the guilty persons, all the prisoners shall contribute an equal share cut of their food to the charges of such repair.

Art. V. Whoever after escape from his prison is retaken, shall be (hut in a dungeon, and shall be dinted to half his pittance of food, till he has by this confinement satisfied for the expences made for seizing and bringing him back to gaol, and shall lose his turn of exchange besides. A sea-ofneer thus contravening, shall from that moment be looked upon and treated as a common sailor.

Art. VT. It is forbidden to fight, quarrel, or make any riot in the prisons or places where the prisoners are allowed to take the air, under pain of incurring such punishment as the offence may require.

Art. VII. The prisons shall be kept clean and neat by the Tailors, every man in hxs turn as shall be regulated, and whatever sailor shall refuse this service in his turn, his food shall be withheld from him till he submit to it.

Art, VUI. The prisoners are to inform the commissary of the clothes or other necessaries they may want, and can pay for, and the commissary shall not only allow them to be provided with such things, but shall also take care they be not imposed upon in the price.

Art.

FOREIGN PRISONS.

13;

HffccvEj. In the prison at Bergues I found forty-seven English prisoners. The table of PtiiOKEti victualling was hung up here as at Dunkirk, but the provisions were not lo good.

There were twelve on their parole in this town, nine at Bourbourg, and two at Ardres, who told me they had procured bondimen for their lecuricy.

Calais. The common Prison at Calais, being smaller than that at Dunkirk, was much crowded: for it contained one hundred and twenty-seven English prisoners. Seventeen sailors lay in one room* on draw, without coverletsj a few had not even draw: on my complaining of this to the commissary, he said, he would send to St. Omer's for coverlets. After informing him farther, that I had found captains., passengers and mates confined in France, but that I supposed persons of this description in England

Art. IX. la every prison the prisoners may appoint three or five of themselves, and change them at their pleafcre, in order to inspeA their vidnals and fee if they be good, and if they have their share or portion whether in weight or meafixre according to the following vidnalling table; and if there arise any reason for complaint, either of d re fling, serving them of, or otherwise, they are with decency to apprise the commissary of it, who finding such complaint well grounded shall give immediate redress and do them joftice.

Art. X- It ftdl be allowed to tradesmen or fillers of ware (except such as deal in things that are not fit to be iold to prisoners) to wait at the great gate of the prisons from ten o’clock in the morning till three in the afternoon, in order to fell their ware to such prisoners as have wherewithal to pay for them on the fpoL

Art. XI. Whatever prisoner shall dare by dus means to take or bring in strong liquors or other things tK* are not fit for prisoners, or shall receive or deliver any letter, shall be pnniffied for the abnfe he has made of this facility.

A TABLE OF VICTUALLING.

Days of the Week. Middling Beer or Cider. Bread. Beef. Batter. Cheese. Pease or Beans.

A Pot containing a quart and half Potndi Avoirdupois Pounds Avoirdupois Ouoces. Ounces. A Pint Haifa Pound

Monday Fern meafare. 1 Weight. i Weight. 1 . _ Avoirdupois Wt. i T

Tnesday < t -

Wednesday l i - - t V

Thursday ( 1 X -

Friday i - 4 or 6 1 V

Saturday s i 4 -

Sunday l *f i - - > T

7 Pots, or io£ Qu. loi +i 4 6 Z

In such places where beer or cider cannot be had, there shall be delivered to each prifener three quarters of a quart of wine per day, Paris meafnre.

That room was nineteen feet by twelve. In another smaller room, in two tiers, were twenty, three belonging to the sailors; for sometimes their hammocks were given them. The

conn of this prison was only twenty-five feet by fourteen and a half.

were

Sect. IV.

FRANCE.

were on their parole of honour \ he replied, and desired I would note it down, that “ a parole could not be granted without security; a hundred guineas for captains, seventy-five for mates, sixty for sailors, and twenty-five for boys.” Passengers were on the fame footing with captains. On the second day of my being the re, the rules (the fame as at Dunkirk) were hung up, both within and without this prison.

Many of the prisoners in this and other prisons had no change of linen, and feme were almo.ft entirely deilitute of clothes, being the crews of vessels shipwrecked in the great storm of December 31ft, 1778.

There were twenty-six of our people in a spacious ward in the military hospital, to whom great attention was paid. Each had a bed and Iheets; and their bread and meat were good. But mod; of them having a diferder which did not break their spirits, they would have been better pleased if their allowance had been equal to that in the prison.

I shall dole this part, with reciting a few particulars which I think of consequence in the ConftruSion and Regulation of Hospitals, mod of which have been collected from the observations I have made abroad.

The Situation of an infirmary or Hospital should be on elevated ground, near a stream, and out of a town—the entrance to it by a flight of easy Oxps(aJ—the wards from twenty-five to thirty feet high, arched, and without buildings over them (bj—distinft wards for medical and chirurgical patients (t)—rows of windows opposite to one another, and even with the cicling—hafps and staples to the upper falhes to prevent their being Ihutfd)—a (tone gallery for more readily opening and lhutting the windows (e) — apertures near the cieling, and the cielings lath and plaster(f)—the fire-places in the middle of the longer fide of the wards—the beds in spacious recedes (g)—the bedsteads iron painted, and with a ferew, that the backs may be easily raised or lowered—the beds on varnished boards with hair mattrefles—in each ward a cistern bason and towel for the patients ("4)—the vaults on the outside of the wards (i)—airy rooms and refectories for convalescent patients (k) — a convenient bath, with an easy defeent into it (I) — a piazza and spacious walk to induce patients to take the air and exercisefw)—two doors to each ward, one of them iron latticed (n)—the wards washed once a week—feraped and lime-whited at least once a year (0) — the patients washed at their admission in the cold or warm bath, and to conform strictly to the rules of nicety and cleanliness.

(a) See Rome, Florence and Madrid.

(b) Bologna, Florence.

(c) Burgos, Bordeaux.

(d) Newport in the Isle of Wight.

(t) Bologna.

(f) Great hospital at Madrid, Lyons.

(g) Toledo, Burgos.

(b) Peterlhnrg, Molcow.

(iJ Milan, Utrecht.

(k) Lyons, Petersburg, Vienna, Paris.

(l) Worcester, Glocester, Manchester.

(m) Haflar, Plymouth.

(n) Bologna.

(0) Edinburgh, Haflar*

*8 3

Calais.

Prisoners

of

War.

CONSTRl’C

AND

Regula.

OF

Hospitai S

SECTION

PRISONERS OF WAR.

184

SECTION V.

PRISONERS OF WAR in ENGLAND, &c.

PHISOXEIS Wh e n I visited my countrymen confined as prisoners of war in France, some w°r of the commijfaires and other gentlemen informed me, that they had received great

complaints from the French prisoners in England. On my return in January 1779,

I waited on the ctmmfioners of the sick and wounded ieamen, and gave them an account of the English prisoners in France, and of my intention to vilit the French prisoners. In order to assist me in this business, they very readily favoured me with letters to their agents at several prisons.

Having determined to take another general view of English prisons, to fee what improvements had been made, in consequence of two late acts of parliament,* and of the charges given by the Judges in their circuits to the grand juries, I chose to begin my tour in those parts where mod: of the French prisoners were confined; and ' of them, therefore, I shall first give some account: in my narrative I now add my

observations in 1782 on these and other prisoners of war, to whom I paid peculiar attention.

Pli- In the Mill-prison near Plymouth, February 3, 1779, there were three hundred

'louTH. md ninety-two French prisoners. The wards and courts in which they were confined, were not so ipacious as those appropriated to the American prisoners, nor were they lb well accommodated with provisions. The hospital, which had fifty patients in it, was dirty and offensive.

In the ship Cambridge there were three hundred and ninety-six prisoners; and the next day, two hundred and fifty more were coming in.—The bread was heavy, and the meat bad; and too litdc attention was then paid to the sick. An hospital ship, called the Tiger, was fitting up for an infirmary, f At my visit, July 30, 1782, the old prison was disused, and there were a hundred and eighty-seven French, two Spanish and seven Dutch in a new prison. This is situated on an eminence; the wards are spacious (twenty feet nine inches wide),

i+th Gn. HI. Cap. XLIII. and 16th Gn. III. Cap. XU II.

t This was an ins.-man till the hospital which they were building near Mill-prifn was finished.

and

Sect.V.

PRISONERS OF WAR.

*«5

and there is a large area. In the infirmary, the cradles (or bedsteads) are similar to those in the royal hospital.*—All die French prisoners embarked the next day in a cartel.

None of the windows in the wards of this prison (or in that at Shrew (bury) were glazed j they had (Venetian) blinds similar to those in distilleries (fee Plate II. A). This and the airy situation greatly contributed to the health of the prisoners, who also had the advantage of Dr. Farr's frequent visits.

Received into this Prison,

From May 27, 1777, to Aug. 1, 1782, American 1296,

June 26, 1778, —Dec. 31, 1782, French 7673,

July 7, 1779, —Dec. 25, 1782, Spanish 749,

Dec. 24, 1780, —May 7, 1783, Dutch 634,

Total 10352

Hied 45 ----- 109.

----- 13.

179.

Of the American prisoners, two hundred and twenty-eight had the (mall-pox, a hundred and eighty-two of them were inoculated at their own delire.—Twenty-five of the French prisoners died of their wounds.

At Bristol, in a prison which had been a pottery, there were a hundred and fifty-one French prisoners, Feb. 9, 1779. The wards were more spacious, and less crowded than those of the prison near Plymouth. There were two day-rooms, in which many shoe-makers, tailors, &c. were at work: an advantage which the prisoners at Plymouth desired, but could not obtain.—-The bread was good.—There being no infirmary, the sick were attended and victualled at a small house near the prison, where seven shillings a week was paid for each patient. There were five in that house, in a dirty and offensive room.—March 2, 1782, there was a new prison, built on a riling ground about three miles from the city (two hundred and fifty-six feet by forty-five), consisting of two floors, each of which having a partition, the wards were twenty-one feet wide. There was no chimney: the wards were dirty, being never washed. Adjoining, is a spacious infirmary, which has a fire-place in each ward, and a detached kitchen. The whole was enclosed by a low wall and pales. Here were seven hundred and seventy-four Spanish, and thirteen Dutch prisoners. Their guard was fifty of the militia.—The bread was not so good, and the prisoners had not that attention paid them, as when the prison was in the city.—Here was painted on a board, that an open market is allowed from ten to three.

By Dr. Farr's order, a board under the beds in the infirmary is brushed with the oil of tar; which corrects the noxious effluvia, and is an agreeable feent.—In most of die hospitals in Denmark and Russia, and also the houses in Sweden, the floors are firewtd with the young shoots of the fir.

B b There

Piv-

MOVTH.

Prisoners

of

War.

Baisvol.

PRISONERS OF WAR.

1S6

Wu-

CHESTEl.

Plisosui

OF

Wac.

Foeto*.

There were a thousand and sixty-two French prisoners in the prison at Winchester) March 2, 1779. The wards arc lofty and spacious. The area large. The meat and beer were good: but the bread (being made with leaven and mixed with rye) was not lo good as that at Briftoh* If two or three of the rooms had been uied as work-rooms, the health of the prisoners would have been promoted, and they would not have been indolently lying in their hammocks in the day-time; as I observed they were, both here and at MiU-pn/ai.

Several prisoners were confined in the dark hole.—Forty days confinement on half' allowance, in order to pay ten shillings to those that apprehend them after cfcapes, seems to be too levere a punishment. On such occasions, the observation of the worthy magistrates at Bern always occurs to my mind, “ that every one mull be deforms of regaining liberty.”

The hospital wards were lofty, and upwards of twenty feet wide. Each patient had a cradle, bedding and iheets; and the surgeon paid them great attention.f

Feb. 26, 1782, theprilon was cleaner than at my former visit, and there were many improvements in the wards and courts. The well was in order.. The number of prisoners was three hundred and twenty-eight French, three hundred and forty-nine Dutch, and seven hundred and thirty Spanish, besides in the infirmary, nine French, thirty-nine Dutch, and thirty-seven Spanish.—On inquiring for the attentive surgeon, I was fbrry to hear, he had died of the gaol-fever, which was fatal to many in this prison.

In 3 prison not very convenient at Fortov near Golport, there were a hundred and seventy-seven French prisoners, March 2, 1779- On that day the meat was very bad, and had been killed, as the butcher’s servant said, that morning: but it was returned, and Mr. Nevafiam the agent procured them good meat instead of it.—Moft of the fix-pound loaves wanted weight. I saw the bread weighed for a hundred and forty-two prisoners, and observed a deficiency of three pounds.—The saw, by long use, was turned to dust in the mattresses, and many of them here, and at other places, had been emptied to clear them of vermin. The floors of the bed-rooms and bolpitals could not but be dirty and offensive, the boards having been laid rough. 1 took notice of this kind of bad policy in all the floors of the new prison which was then building here, and almost finished.

The regulations were in the French language, and were the fame with those published in a former war. They were evidently the original from which those

I particularly observed the SrtoJ; for in France it was remarkably good and well baked —The priiooeri are much happier when an attention is paid to this article.

t Mr. Smith the agent also was aiudnons in his department. He mentioned to me, in 1779, that he thought it would be an act vantage if one of their prietts (two of whom were at a little didance on efccir forthJ were permitted to attend the prisoners. This, he Cud, would be the means of comforting feme, of awing others, and of giving information whenever there was an; j*ft reason for complaints. —At my rift in 178a, the Homan-catholic prisoners had fitted of a little chapel.

Sect. V.

PRISONERS OF WAR.

*87

printed in page 181 are translated. For the fake of greater accuracy, they will be given at the end of the book. I was informed both here and at Winchester, that they had been hung up, but were tom down. The regulations in the Spanish language were the fame as those in the French.—It would be better, to paint them on a board, which should be fattened in ibme conspicuous place in every prison.

On the prisoners complaining that the bread was too light and the meat bad, I referred them to the ninth article of the regulations, by which they are directed to apply to the agent, and (if not redressed) to the eommtftoners. One of them pertinently replied, “ How is that possible, when every letter is examined by the agent ?”*

At my visit November 6, 1782, I found there was no separation of the Americans from other prisoners of war, and they had the fame allowance of bread, viz. one pound and a half each. There were a hundred and fifty-four French, thirty-four Dutch, and a hundred and thirty-three Americans; of these, twelve French, twenty-five Dutch, and nine Americans were in the hospital. The wards were not dean.f No regulations hung up. I weighed several of the fix-pound loaves, and they all wanted some ounces of weight.

The American prisoners then had an allowance from the States, paid by order of Dr. Franklin. 1 found a.gentleman of Portsmouth distributing this kind allowance. From Lady-day to Michaelmas, officers received one Hulling per week, and foamen six-pence: and from Michaelmas to Lady-day, officers two shillings and foamen one Ihillingper week. American officers were not on parole as other officers.

Received into (his PriTon,

June 13, 1777> Nov. 6, 1782, American 1200, Died 69*

June 30, 1778, --’Nov. 6, 1782, French 11720. 1 1 Ob Os

June 11, 1779, — July 3. *782, Spanfth 3028, — 167.

Dec. 30, 1780, — Sept. 28, 1782, Dutch 934. —- 17.

Total 16882 419.

There was a new temporary Pr'tfon at Deal. It had an airy and spacious room below, and another above, and a convenient kitchen.—The regulations were hung up, the loaves were full weight, the provisions of all forts were good, and the mattresses had plenty of draw.* I made my first visit (as I did always) without the

I could have wiihed, that the gentlemen concerned for the American prisoners, had extended their reg'ards also to the Trench, and by their attention and visits had obliged the contractors to* be more careful in discharging their duty.

f It might have been better, if in the rooms appropriated to the sick, there had been women QUrfctf as in the royal hospitals at Haflar and Plymouth, which are neat and clean.

ToltTOK.

PnisoNBa5

OF

Wnn.

Deal.

agents

PRISONERS OF WAR.

iS3

Pul.

PtISOSEKL

or

Wii.

Carlisle.

PlUfilOCE.

agents or contractors, and I had the pleasure of hearing the prisoners express their satisfaction.

The prison adjoins to the naval hospital, the wards of which were clean and not in the lead offensive. In this the sick and wounded prisoners had the convenience of a ward, similar to that which the English prisoners had at Dunkirk and Calais; and were attended by a skilful and humane surgeon. There were seventy-three in the prison, and fifteen in this ward, April 17, 1779: and twenty-eight French and three Dutch December 5, 1782, and only one lick.

Received into this Prison,

Nov. 3, 1778, to Dec. 8, 1782, French 2420. Dud 20.

Dec. 23, 1780, Dutch 698, — 15.

Jnly *S> *779» ' - Spanish 32. 0.

Aug. 14, 1781, American *3» I.

Total 3>&3 36-

Died of Fevers 24. Of Wounds 11. Of the Scurvy 1.

In the county gaol at Carlisle, in one large room in the debtors ward, there were twelve French prisoners. May 10, 1779- They were not supplied with hammocks, as’ at Plymouth, Winchester, &c. but lay on draw without coverlets. Their allowance, six-pence a day.

On the 5th and 6th of June 1779, I visited the prisons at Pembroke. There were fifty-six French prisoners in an old house adjoining to that in which the Americans were confined. Mod of them had no shoes or dockings, and some were also without Hurts.—'They had no vi£tu ailing table, nor did they know what was their allowance. There were two or three who had -their, allowance in money, which should have been three shillings and six-pence a week each for their aliment, but six-pence was dedu&ed. They lay, in general, on the boards without draw: for there were but four hammocks in two rooms, each of which contained eighteen prisoners. Here was a court-yard, but no water or fewer.

In the two rooms of the town gaol there were twenty French prisoners. They had some draw, but it had not been changed for many weeks. Haring no fiipply of water in the gaol, and not being permitted, as they were at the other prison, to fetch water for themselves, they were often neglected. On Sunday at noon, no water had been brought to them from Friday evening.—They walked in a field, with a guard, about an hour every day.—Their bread was tolerable, but their beer very final!, and their allowance of beef so scanty, that they preferred to it an allowance of cheese and butter.

At a house appropriated for an hospital, there were nine French prisoners, besides five of the crew of the Culloden man of war, and three Americans. These lay in

three

Sect. V. PRISONERS OF WAR.

three or four rooms on straw with coverlets, but without lheets, mattresses or Peubroks. bedheads. Prisoners

At my visit October 21, 1782, there was a new prison. Two rooms; one on the or ground-floor, the other over it (thirty-six feet by sixteen) very dirty and often five, though there were only fix French prisoners. They had been confined to their rooms on short allowance from the fourteenth of September for making an escape.

The bedding was on the floor; the straw in some of the mattresses had not been changed for eighteen weeks. The prisoners said they wer-e half starved; the bread was very brown, and the weight of the daily allowance only sixteen ounces. No regulations were hung up.—The former agent was dismissed.

No agent, or relation of any agent, should be concerned in any contract relative to prisoners of war.

Such observations as these have convinced me, that humanity and good policy require that injpedort of the prisoners of war should be appointed, who should be desired to report quarterly their state as to health, provisions, &c. No doubt some independent gentlemen in the neighbourhood would accept such an humane office without a salary.

In another view, also, such an appointment would be advantageous. These prisons are usually guarded by the militia, and the centinels have in several instances lhewn themselves too ready to fire on the prisoners, in which they have been countenanced by inexperienced officers. Several persons have thus been killed on the spot, though perhaps there was no serious design of an escape. The agent is too much in awe of the officers to make due inquiries and representations on these occasions; whereas an independent gentleman would probably exert himself in a proper manner.

At Chester Castle, Aug. 27, 1779, there were twenty-three French prisoners of Chester. war. They were healthy and well, and made no complaint.

At Liverpool, Nov. 30, 1779, were five hundred and nine prisoners of war, all Liverpool. French, except fifty-six Spaniards, who were kept separate on accoynt of the animosities between the two nations. These were all confined in four or five rooms crowded with hammocks three tier high; but they had a spacious airing ground, and the prison was situated on a fine eminence. There were thirty-six lick, in some small rooms of a house at a distance from the prison. These had no lheets; but great attention seemed to be paid them by the surgeon, and they made no complaints.

At the prison, the bedding wanted regulation. No table of rules or victualling was hung up, (1779) or ever had been. The prisoners rejoiced at the discharge of the late agent; and from the character of the new agent, had every reason to expect all due attention and humanity. Their meat was fine and good , the beer good; the bread heavy.—Sep. 5, 1782, there were twenty French, seven Spanish, and seven Dutch prisoners.

Received

PRISONERS OF WAR.

Livaarooi.

PftlSOXEftS

or

Waa.

Hot A.

Lucoil.

$B11WS-

ICtT.

Received into the Prison at Liverpool,*

From September 3, 1778, to September j, 1782, French 1283, Died 14.

September 5, 1779, — February 23, 1781, Spanish 69, 3.

February 2,1781, — Odohr % 1782, Dutch 84, 1.

Total 1436. 18.

Here, as well as at all the other places throughout the kingdom where French prisoners were confined, I found that there was an allowance from the French court of one penny per day to all sailors and boys; two pence to boatfwains, carpenters, &c. and three pence to those of superior rank s which was regularly paid them every month. There was besides a supply from the same court of clothes, linen, and shoes to those who were destitute of these articles: a noble and exemplary provision, much to the honour of those who conducted public affairs in France!J

The prison in the fortreis at Hull consists of several rooms, with two tier of lhelvcs for the ltraw, or beds. There were only fifty-one Dutch prisoners, Jan. 30, 1782, many having been lately Tent to Shrewsbury. These prisoners were sensible of the attention paid them by Mr. Kerman the forgeon and agent.

In the CajtU at Lincoln, Feb. 1, 1782, I found eight Dutch prisoners, who had been taken ill on their march from Hull to Shrewsbury. One of them, an old man, died the next day; the rest recovered. Their allowance was six-pence a day, and they were kindly supplied from a collection made by Dr. Staton, chancellor of Lincoln.

At Shrewsbury, in a large and elegant building on the bank of the Severn, called the orphan-house (as being erected in 1763 for the reception of children from the foundling-hospital at London), there were in June 1782, three hundred and thirty-

The Scheme of Diet for prisoners of war in the Hospital at Liverpool.

Low Diet. Water-grael, panado, rice-grnel milk-pottage, or broth, eight ounces of bread, (and if butter is ordered, two ounces).—For drink, toad and water, ptifan, or white decoction,

Half Diet. For trtakfaf, milk-pottage; for dinner, half a pound of mutton, some light bread-padding, or in lien of it, foae greens, a pint of broth, a pound of bread, and three pints of

small beer.

Full Diet. Breakfafi as abore. For dinner, one ponnd of meat, one pint of broth, one pound of bread, and two quarts of small beer. Supper, in the two lad mentioned diets, to be of the broth left at dinner, or if thought necessary to be of milk-pottage.

Rice milk, orange whey, orange and lemon water, tamarind whey, vinegar whey, balm and iage tea to be discretionally uied by the forgeon.

f f have since beard that a bounty was paid by the court of England to their prisoners in France, at the following rates, -one. captains, mates, failing mailers, fnrgeous, and dewards, three pence per day each; common sailors, boys, and passengers of inferior rank, three halfpence per day each; which payment was made every twenty-eight days.

S*CT. V. PRISONERS QF WAR.

eight Dutch prisoners; twenty-seven of them were in the hospital. The wards were spacious, a hundred and twenty feet by twenty. At the back of the prison there is a fine area of four acres well supplied with water, and at the hospital an area of one acre. The regulations in Dutch and French were hung up. The beds in the hospital were not crowded; all had sheets; and the surgeon paid great attention to the patients.

Many of the prisoners were without ihoes and llockings, andfome had no Hurts; for they had not received any bounty from the States, as the French and Spanish prisoners had from their courts. But by a generous subscription in the town promoted by the surgeon (£61: 15: o), they were soon after supplied with necessary clothing. The Dutch government afterwards ordered an allowance.

At Yarmouth, July 8, 1782, there were ten French and ninety-two Dutch prisoners. Their rooms and court, and the three rooms of the infirmary, were too dole. The regulations in French and Dutch were hung up. The provisions were good. The prisoners looked healthy and well: most of them had been brought in but a few days.

At Falmouth, Feb. 6, 1783, there were sixty-five French, twenty-four Spanish and nineteen Dutch prisoners; of whom, sixteen French, fix Spanish and five Dutch were in the hospital. The prison was situated on a fine eminence about two miles from the town, and had plenty of water. The provisions were good, and the prisoners then made no complaint.*—The hospital was above a mile from the prison. The patients lay tingle, in good cradles, hair-beds, sheets and coverlets. The wards were tiled, and were the more airy and salutary for not being deled.

All prisons and hospitals should be near towns, for the convenience of provisions being sent in regularly, and the attendance of surgeons and agents.

The Number of Prisoners,-

From Sept. 11,. 1778, to Feb. 10, 1783, French 2669, Died 37.

July 12, 1779, - - Spanish 185, 5.

Jan. 3, 1781, - - Dutch 301, 6'.

Total 3156 48*

Signed R. W. Fox, Jgent.

My principal object in procuring lifts of the number of prisoners of war who had been received and had died in several prisons, was to refute a prevailing opinion of our severity and inattention to such prisoners. These lifts, which I received from the agents, were afterwards checked by the books of the Commissioners vfjick and wounded seamen in London, who readily granted me that favour.

*9*

Shrews-

bury.

Prisoners

of

War.

Yar-

mouth.

Fal-

mouth.

PRISONERS

t92

PRISONERS OF WAR.

Eftis-

lutes.

Piisoms

OF

Belfast.

PRISONERS OF WAR in SCOTLAND.

I found in the castle at Edinburgh, July 6, 1779, sixty-four French prisoners, in two rooms formerly used as barracks for the soldiers. In one of the rooms they lay on straw, two and two> in boxes against the wall, with two coverlets to each box: in the other room they lay on mattresses in hammocks.—The regulations as to diet, &c. were hung up. Their bread was excellent, and all other provisions good; nor was there any thing of which they made complaint.—They received every month, the allowance from the French court.—There were fourteen in the hospital, which was a house at feme distance in the city, where they had bedding and (heets, and great attention was paid them by the humane forgeon and agent.

In the castle, March 37, 1781, there were fifteen American and fourteen French prisoners; and ten who were said to be Irish, who were closely confined, being out only one hour in a day. In such dose confinement prisoners should always have one of the doors iron-latticed.—The bread was very good; the water in the well was brackilh, the prisoners foould have been permitted with a guard to fetch water every day from the city.—August 17, 1782, there were only five French prisoners.

The Number of Prifooen received at Edinburgh, from Nov. 23, 1778, to Aug. 17, 1782.

French 843. ZW 31.

Spuidk 108, 0.

Dutch 10, Q.

Americans 3c, 3*

Total 990 34-

In June 1781 there were two hundred and fevrmecn French prisoners landed from the Jamaica fleet, who had been fourteen weeks on their passage. AH were fiddy; mod of them had an inveterate scurvy: of these twenty-four died.

PRISONERS OF WAR is IRELAND.

ON the 13th of July 1779, there were seventy-seven French prisoners at Belfast, who had been brought there the beginning of May.—There was no table of regulations, and they seemed to be much neglected. Sixteen of them were in the hospital, including three attendants. Many others were lick, but in the hospital there was neither room nor accommodations for them.

At

Sect.V.

PRISONERS OF WAR.

*93

At Dublin, July 22, 1779, there were twenty-two prisoners of war, in a good Dublin. room fitted up for a temporary prison. Their bread and other provisions were very Prisoners good; and they were treated with all the humanity and kindness that could be °T expected. Wa,‘

In the Old Newgate, May 28, 1782, there were thirty-two prisoners of war of several nations, being part of the crew of a Dunkirk privateer. They were confined in one large room. Allowance six-pence a day to each. These prisoners were soon after removed to Kilkenny.

At Kilkenny, June 9, 1782,' there Were a hundred and fifty-seven French,* three Kilkenny. Spamlh and five Dutch prisoners of war, besides eleven in the infirmary and seventeen French on their parole. They were all privateers men: they looked healthy and had no cause of complaint. This was acknowledged by those on parole, Mr.

Watters the agent being attentive to them.—September 12, 1782, there were only three French and four Dutch prisoners.

The Number of Prisoners at Kilkenny, from Aug. 29, 1779, to Sept. 12, 1782.

French 14.18, Did 34.

.Spaiiiftk 162, 9-

Dutch 9. 0.

*fetal 1589 43-

A copy of the lift of the sums which the French king grants to his febjefts detained in England, See, as a supplement to what they receive from the court at London.

AT liberty.

King's ships. T0 the surgeon majors and chaplains ... p,r Day

- ----- To the volunteers of the first class - -

...... To the inafters, pilots and carpenters ..

...... To gunners, captains of arms, Surgeons mates, apothecaries, second

matters of all conditions, secretary of frigates, and second pilots ........ To the volunteers of good family -

CONFINED.

King's ships. To the second matters, sergeant officers, gunners mates, and gun-fn>\ths ....

........ To the Sailors, soldiers, and Hup boys

MERCHANT MEN.

Merchantjbifs. Captains, at liberty, or confined ..

----- Second captains and other officers, at liberty, or confined

....----- Sailors, soldiers, volunteers and ship boys

£ So D.

O 0 3

O 0 3

0 0 3

0 0 3

0 0 I

0 0 I’

0 0 1

0 0 1

0 0 2

0 0 I

They are also supplied when destitute of clothing, each of them to the amount of one pound two killings apd five pence halfpenny lrijbt for jacket, waistcoat, shirt, fiioes, dockings and hat.

Cc AMERICAN

PRISONERS OF WAR.

*94

AMERICAN PRISONERS

Ply-

mouth.

Aue*icax

PsiSOSEtS.

Iv Mill-prifen near Plymouth, there were two hundred and ninety-eight American prisoners on the jd of February 1779. Their wards and court were spacious anci convenient, and their bread, beer, and meat good. On July 30, 1782, there were only seven American prisoners.

Foeto*. The Americans were equally well accommodated at Fortov near Gosport, where I found two hundred and fifty-one prisoners, March 2, 1779.

The table of regulations was almost the fame with that for the French prisoners. The principal difference was, that in the victualling table, the bread allowance was then only one pound a day. The meagre day was Saturday j and against the weekly article of two pints of pease, was added, “or greens in lieu.” The regulation, Art. 5. is well worth copying. “ As water and tubs for washing their linen “ and cloaths, will be allowed, the prisoners are advised to keep their persons as “ clean as possible, it being very conducive to health. ”

rt«Mu. At Pembroke, June j, 1779, there were confined in an old house thirty-seven American prisoners. Some of them were without shoes and (lockings.—There was no victualling table, or table of regulations j nor did they know what was the allowance ordered by government. They lay on draw on the floor, and their straw had not been changed for fix or leven weeks.—By liberal subscriptions, ample provision had been made for the other American prisoners: I was forty to find that these had been entirely overlooked.

In a house appropriated for an hospital,. In which were some English sailors and French prisoners, 1 found allb three American prisoners, very poorly accommodated.—I should not omit mentioning that I found the American prisoners (except at Pembroke) clean and well clothed—the latter, not entirely from the generous supplies they have had from this country, but in conjunction with that from their own.—At my visits in 1782, the Americans were with the other prisoners of war, and had an allowance from the States; as I mentioned at Forton (page 187).

Before I leave this foiled, it win be but justice to mention the care and afSduity of the Commifimers, who themselves visited many of the prisons in England, and difiniffed such agents as had abused their trust; and who are ready to receive any information winch may be for the benefit of those committed to their care.

SECTION

Sect. VI.

SC OTLAND.

*9J

SECTION VI.

SCOTCH and IRISH PRISONS.

IT may not be improper, before I enter on a particular account of English prisons, to mention what further occurred to me that seemed worthy of oblervation, in my journies into Scotland and Ireland in 1779, 1782 and 1783.

The prisons that I saw in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Perth, Stirling, Jedburgh, Scotland. Haddington, Ayr, Kelso, Nairne, Bamff, Inverness, &c. were old buildings, dirty and offensive, without court-yards and also generally without water.

If a prisoner for debt declares upon oath that he has not wherewithal to maintain himself, the creditor mull aliment him within ten days after notice is given for that purpose, with at least three pence a day,* but generally the magistrates order six-pence.—By the procefc of icjjio ionorum, j- a debtor after being a month in prison, may obtain his liberty, and be secured against execution for any previous debts, by making a surrender of all his effects to be divided among his creditors: though if he afterwards comes into better circumstances, his effects may be attached for the payment of those debts. This compalBonate law prevents a creditor putting his debtor in prison, unless he has good reason to believe he is acting fraudulently.

Perjury is not frequent in Scotland. The oath, and the form of administering it, are very solemn. The witness, holding up his right hand, repeats the following words after the judge :—“ By God himself, and as you shall answer to God at the “ great day of judgment, you shall declare the truth, and nothing but the truth, in “ so far as you know, or shall be asked at you. ’’—The depositions are read over by the clerk, and ligned by the witnesses and the judge. J—It is enacted by the 20th of Gee. II. that “ the circuit-courts shall be regularly held twice in every “ year, within that part of Great Britain, called Scotland, and the Judges thereof

By act of king William's first parliament, 1696, sixth session, Chap. XXXIt. f See the Principles vf the Lanxj of Scotland, 5th edit. 8vo. Edinburgh*, 1777* page 462 and 3.

X Loutbian't Form of Proeefs, before the Court of Jufieiaty in SeotlaitJ. Ed in 175*. page 109.

c C 2 shall

9*

SCOTLAND.

ScotiA.to- “ Hull continue by the space of six days at least, at each town or place where the circuit-courts shall be held, for the dispatch of business. ”

There are in Scotland but few prisoners; this is partly owing to the ihame and ailgrace annexed to imprilbnment; partly to the solemn manner in which oaths are administered, and trials and executions conduced § and partly to the general lobriety of manners produced by the care which parents and minifiers take to instruft the riling generation.!

I am indebted to Adrem Crejlie, Esq. for an account, from the clerk, of the judiciary, of the executions from January 1768 to May 1782, which shall be inserted in a table at the end of the book; from which it will appear, that in thirteen years and a half, there have been only fifty-four executed, and twenty-two pardoned.

In Scotland, executions formerly were not delayed after conviction or sentence; such delays being often equally injurious to the criminal and to society. Here, the punishment of the offender was made to appear the immediate consequence of his crime.J

This good ad is ftjnilar to one enafied for the counties of Wales in 34th and 33th of Htmrj Vllr. Chap. XXVI. That every of the said sessions shall be kept and continued by the Ipace of six days “ in every of the fiud fltires, at either of the said times, as is and hath been oled within the said three “ fiures of North Wales. ”

f It is provided by statute i« the sixth fejjten of king ff'illiom'i ftft parliament, 1696, Chap. XXVI. “ That there be a school settled and e&ablished, and a schoolmaster appointed in every parish* in Scotland, and the presbytery has the faperintendence of the execution of this act, which has been carefully attended to Many schools are also settled by donations and legacies, and by the lociety for propagating chri&an knowledge; lo that no parish is without a school, and in Ionic there are lour or five. In the southern parts of Scotland, it is very rare that you meet with any person chat cannot both read and write. It is scandalons for any person not to be possessed of a Bible, which is always read is the parochial schools.

t By the act made in king William?* first fdfion, 1695, ('hap. IV. all capital crimes are reftridied to the trial and sentence within three Suns; and the “ Execution, which is hereby left to the discretion of the Judge, no: exceeding nine days after fente&ce.,y—The Statute of the llth of Geo. I. Chap. XXVI. enacts, that no sentence of death, or corporal punishoent, can, on the south fide of the Forth, be put in execution in less than thirty, and on the north, than forty days. This ftatate is altered in so far as respeds panifhments that amount neither to death nor demembration; and the law allows all fcch lefier corporal poniihmects to be infiided after eight days on the south fide of the river Forth, and twelve days os the north fide of the river Forth. This alteration is made by the Itatute of the 3d of Geo. II. Chap. XXXII. which likewise empowers the coart of judiciary to stay execution of such sentence* pronounced in inferiour courts for thirty days, upon caule ihewn, that such application may be made for redress as may be competent by the laws of Scotland. The statute of the llth of Gtp. I. is referred entire by the statute of the 25th of (rtf. XI. Chap* XXXVII. which enadls, that murderers in England shall be executed within three days*

All

Sect, VI.

SCOTLAND.

W

All criminals are tried cut of irons; and when acquitted, they are immediately Scotland. discharged in open court; and no gaoler has a fee from any -criminal.—Women are not put in irons in Scotland,

In the Tolbooth at Eddiburgh,* July 6, 1779, there were thirteen debtors iand Edin-nine felons; and in the Canongate Tolbooth, there were five debtors and one felon'; BU*CH* and in the house of correction there were fifty-three women, crowded into three dirty1 and

offensive

I here give the table of fees from the Tolbooth in this city* which* is the only one I saw in the prisons in Scotland, except a iimilar one in the Canongate Tolbooth* and one at Glasgow.

ACT of COUNCIL regulating the fees payable to the jailor and clerkofthe Tolbooth of Edinburgh. —Edinburgh, seventeenth July* seventeen hundred and twenty-eight. The which day the Lord Provost, bailies* council, deacons of crafts* ordinary and extraordinary* being convened in council* and taking into conftderadon the present itate of their Tolbooth* and particularly the fees that have been in use to be exalted by the jailor and clerk of the said prison, both from creditors at incarceration of prisoners, and from the debitor or person himself imprisoned; and jodging it highly reasonable* that these fees should for the future be publicly ascertained by authority of the council for the benefit of all concerned; therefore the council do tax and settle the fame as follows, viz.

Fees payable to the Jailor.

The incarcerator of any debitor for any Aim of money shall pay at incarceration one halfpenny sterling for each pound Sects, and another halfpenny llerling of each pound Scots to be paid by the debitor at his liberation; and this in place of one penny llerling of each pound Scots in use to be paid by creditors at incarceration* and of the like sum of one penny sterling of each pound Scots, usually paid by the debitor at liberation as relief money.

Scctt.

Item,

Item*

Item,

Item,

Item*

The council ordains and declares when any gentleman or other person shall be incarcerate in the Tolbooth* and shall desire to have a room in the prison by him orherfelf, such persons shall be liable for the conveniency of such room to pay to the jailor ten shillings sterling weekly in place of prison fees* or such as they and the jailor shall agree* but not to exceed ten shillings.

That all prisoners shall be liable to pay the under-keepers* and the woman who cleans the house* as prisoners were in use to do before the act of council the 17th day of July 1728; but if any dispute shall arise thereanent, the magistrates for the time being shall have the full power of determining the fame.

Each person imprisoned for a civil debt or otherwise not being a burgels, shall pay to the jailor of house dues each night aitour what is above Each burgess imprisoned for a civil debt or otherwise, shall pay also to the jailor of house dues each night attour what is above ...

The incarcerator of any person or persons by the lord’s letters of laborrows shall pay at incarceration .....

The incarcerator of any person or persons on laburrows by a magistrate* sheriff, or justice of peace* shall pay at incarceration ...

The incarcerator of any person for exhibition of papers* or for implementing of writs (captions of reproduction of precedes before the inferior courts excepted) shall pay at incarceration .....

Fits

SCOTLAND.

19S

£di»-

1U1CB.

offenfiye rooms, where they work and deep.—March 38, 1782, there were in the Tolbooth, four debtors and twenty-three criminals; in the Canongate, two debtors; and in the beufe if ctrreBie«, thirty-seven women.

I will only just mention the dose confinement of fair* criminals in the Tolbooth, the horrid (age in the room known by that name, and (he severity practised there of chaining the condemned to an iron bar; because I found that the late Provost

Fsss payable to the Ciehk of the Tolbooth.

Setts.

£. S. D.

Imprimis, Each person incarcerate upon any laburrows, shall Bt his liberation pay - 0120

Itca, Each person incarcerate by warrant from the ttagiftntes, shall at his liberation

pay - - - - 06c

Item, Each person incarcerate by warrant from fteriff or jotice of the peace, shall at

liberation pay - - - *0120

Item, All government prisoners Hull pay each at liberation zoo

Item, For each petition by a prisoner for the benefit of the aA of grace, and for the

clerk* declaration thereto fobjotned shall be paid - 06c

Item, For the borrowing or delivering ap of any diligence by which prifooers are incarcerate (all magistrates warrants at or within ten mercks excepted) shall be paid - - - - 04 c

Item, All persans incarcerated or arrested for a fan or fans at or below £120 Scots, shall pay to the clerk at liberation four pennies for each poond Scots; and for fasts above £120 Scots, shall pay at liberation to the clerk two pounds Scots and no acre.

Item, All persons incarcerate for exhibition of papers, or for implementing of writs (captions for reprodo&ion of precedes before the inferior courts excepted) shall pay to the clerk at liberation - - - - I 10 c

Item, All creditors or incarcerators of prifooers for civil debt or otherwise shall be free of all fees to the clerk at incarceration.

And the council flatoes and declares, that if any fees shall be demanded or exacted in time coming, by the jailor or clerk of their Tolbooth, other than thele above set down, they shall incar the deprivation of their respective offices; and ordain their presents to be printed and poblished, that none may pretend ignorance.

And the coaneU hereby ordains Jmaus CleiW principal jailor and his successors in office, to affix a copy hereof in the Telbmtb-bmO, and in his own office, under the penalty of £§ Scots, Witt fuotiet.

Extracted (signed) George Home.

Edinburgh, the Sixth Day of July, Seventeen Hundred and Seventy-nine Years. These do certify by me William GiUes clerk to the Tolbooth of Edinborgh, that the above is a true and exact copy of the ad of council of the city of Edinburgh, by which the keeper of the said Tolbooth and me as clerk thereof are governed.

William Gillts.

I lay far, becanfe such as have money have too moch liberty. For in the fame prison, I lately for iome, who were confined for a riot, drinking vsbijkcy in the tap-room, in company with many profligate townfinen, who were readily admitted, as they promoted the sale of the gaoler’s liquors.

Mr,

Sect. VI.

SCOTLAND.

«9*

Mr. Steuart was using his best endeavours to get a new gaol built, which should be subject to better regulations and stand in a more airy lituation.

I could not but admire the Royal Infirmary at Edinburgh. Few hospitals in England exceed it in airiness and cleanliness. Great attention is paid to the patients, and their complaints are very accurately minuted: the students attend the physician in his round of the wards. The success of this institution is evident, from the few that die in comparison with the number admitted. The proportion of deaths to the number admitted, from 1770 to 1775 inclusive, was as one to twenty five nearly. In 1776 and 1777, the proportion was nearly as one to twenty-nine. The total number of patients admitted in 1780 was two thousand two hundred and twenty-eight, of whom seventy-six died: the number in 1781 was two thousand two hundred and six, of whom seventy-four died.—Dr. John Hope, the firftphysician in this hospital (who lives very near it and gives, unremitting attendance) informed me, that two or three years ago, a putrid fever prevailed in it j but that white-walhing the walls had eradicated the infection, and that this salutary practice had been continued'ever since. f

The Orphan-hospital also deserves particular commendation, in which in 178a, there were about seventy boys and sixty girls, who appeared decently clothed, cheerful, clean and healthy. The girls are taught (besides reading and writing) spinmngj knitting, sewing and houshold work; and the boys carding,. spinning, knitting, mending-their clothes, &c. All are educated- in the principles of virtue and religion, and formed to such habits as may tend to make them good servants and apprentices. Every part of the house was clean.—The maintenance, &c. for each

child, is about five pounds___Mr. Tod, the treasurer, merits peculiar respect for the

attention and zeal with which he endeavours to promote the usefulness and credit of this hospital.*

In the Tolbooth at Glasgow, July 9, 1779, there were thirteen dtbtors and seven criminals; and in the house of correSion, seventeen women were spinning, decently clothed: in September 178c, there were eighteen debtors and five criminals in the Tolbooth,% and twenty-six prisoners in the house of torreSion.

The

EDIN-

BURGH.

Infir-

mary.

Orfman-

Hospital.

Glasgow.

I murt not omit here making my acknowledgments to the magistrates of Edinburgh, for the honour they did me, by presenting me with the freedom of this city.

f See page 30. —On my visit at Haflar hospital in November 1782, I had the pleasure to hear that there was an order to white-waft the wards twice a year. 4

t COPY of the Fees and Regulations to be exacted and observed in the TelbootbiX Glasgow; as appointed by A& of the Magistrates and Town Council of Glasgow, dated the 31ft of August, 1769*

Sterling.

!. Every burgess incarcerated, /Hall* during his confinement, pay for jaylor fee, for £. S. Di each night, at the rate of . - - - .002

And every person not a burgess, shall pay for jaylor fee, during his or her confinement, each night, at the rate of - - - - .0 04

2. Every

200

SCOTLAND.

The Number of Prisoners, September 178a.

Edinburgh Tolbooth ' Canongate Debtors, - >3* 3’ CrimhuU. 22* 2.

Dumfries - 3. 0.

Perth . 4> 3-

Aberdeen - - 8, 6.

Invemefi - 3. 5-

It

Every person imprisoned by virtue of an act of warning, shall pay to the jaylor, exclufire of the does in ift article, ...

And every person incarcerated by virtue of a written warrant, from a magistrate, a justice of peace, or a sheriff, shall pay ...

5. Every person incarcerated by virtue of a caption, or a judiciary, or admiral warrant, shall, evdufive of the dues in id article, if a burgess, pay If an unfreeman, -

4. The jaylor, on figoing an attedadon of a commitment, shall receive

And on the delivery np of diligence to persons neglecting to require the fame, within eight dayi after the prisoner’s liberation, he shall receive

Sterling.

£ S. D.

o 1 44

Ol8

o 2 9t

o 5 6J

O I 0

010

Rules to be obfenred by the Jaylor and his servants.

1. The jaylor shall not by himself or any of his servants, directly or indirectly, demand or receive from any prisoner, or from any person in his or in her name, at entry, or daring his or her confinement, any fans of money under the name of entry money, garnishing, or any other denomination, Separate from and over and above the fees ttipolated as above. Further, the jaylor {hall not (offer any of the prisoners, to make demands of money or drink from persons newly incarcerated, on any pretence whatsoever.

j. The jaylor shall, from iff of April to iff of Ofiober, open each day the prison at eight, and (hat it half an hour after nine in the morning; open it at eleven before noooo, and (hat it half an hour after two o'clock afternoon; open it at four o'clock afternoon, and (hot it at ten o'clock at night. And from the iff of Oftoba to the iff of April, he shall open the prison each day at nine in the morning, and font it half an hoar after two o’clock afternoon; open it at four o’clock afternoon, and Ihot it at ten o’clock at night; only on Sondays, the prison shall be flint duringpnblick worihtp, any thing in ’this role to the contrary. And the jaylor is always to keep the whole keys of the prison in his own enffody while it is (hot up, and not entroff them with any of his servants.

3. The jaylor, every morning and evening, at the opening of, and before (hotting up the prison, shall personally riff: every room and place therein, carefully infpcA the windows, chimoies, and walls thereof, in order to prevent and difeorer all attempts to cot the iron ffanchers, or to break through the fione walls, joitfs, and floors of the prison, and he shall take particular care, that no instruments be conrered to, or be in the poflefion of any of the prisoners, whereby they may effectuate their efeape, or butt cne another; and in case the jaylor shall, through indifposition, be prevented from the execution of his doty, he foal! take care to employ some faithful person in his absence.

4. The jaylor and his fervaats are expressly prohibited, on any account, to fell, or suffer to be brought in to any of the prisoners, spirits, or ffrong liquor, whereby they may be in danger of being intoxicated j and to ofe their utmost endeavours to promote sobriety amor.git those under their charge.

5. The

Sect. VI.

SCOTLAND.

2on

It would, perhaps answer no end to give a description of all the Scotch prisons that I visited. I will, therefore, only add to this account the following particulars.

At Dumfries in the court-house is a room called the open gaol (sixteen feet three Dumfries inches by eleven feet three) with closets and a fire-place, where a debtor that finds bail has the key, and may converse at the door.—The gaol in this town was burnt by a prisoner some years ago. To prevent this for the future, the rooms in it have been vaulted.

The like accident happened to the upper floor of the Tolbooth at Aberdeen, a neat Aberdeen. and clean prison, the upper floor of which is now very properly arched over.

The Tolbooth at Inverness has no fire-place, and is the moll: dirty and ofienfive Inverness. prison that I have seen in Scotland.* (The room for debtors is sixteen feet by fourteen and a half: that for felons about thirteen feet and a half square, and only fix feet and a half high; the window is twenty inches by fix.)

In one of the piers of the stone-bridge at Inverness, there is a vaulted room intended for a prison. This room was constructed in 1684, when the bridge was built, but had not been opened for three years before my late visit. Near the wall of the bridge there is a trap-door twenty-two inches square, and a few steps down from it, an iron door (two feet three inches wide, and two feet and a half high), from which there is a defeent of a few steps more to the room just mentioned, which is ten feet four inches by seven feet fix, and fix feet high. On the tides there is a (lone feat, a small window, and two apertures to dip for water, &c.

5. The jaylor {hall keep the prisoners for debt, in the belt rooms, and separate from Criminals and disorderly persons, and prevent, as much as possible, their aJTociating and converting together, and the friends and servants of debtors, shall be allowed at all convenient times, to bring in vivers for their support.

6. In order to make the prison more healthy and clean, the jaylor shall, at his own expence, cause pair and clean the stairs, sweep the rooms, and remove and carry away all filth and nafliness, at least, three times in the week.

7. The jaylor, in the event of his exacting, by himself, or his servants, more fees than liipnlated as above, or in the event of transgressing any of the rules or instructions foresaid, shall be dismissed from his office, or otherwise punished as the magistrates, for the time being, and council shall judge proper.

It is recommended to the magistrates, frequently to examine and enquire into the fidelity of the jaylor and his servants; and the council hereby ordains thele does and regulations to be printed and published, that none may pretend ignorance; and ordains John Rowan jaylor, and his successors in office, to affix a copy hereof in the most public part of the Tolbooth, under the penalty of ten pounds Scots.

As this is the circuit-town for seven other counties (one third of Scotland), I hope the judges will recommend the ereltion of a new gaol. A regard to themselves requires this; for the offeniire room in which the criminals are lodged, opens into the rovr/.—Part of the forfeited effaces might be appropriated to that purpose.

Dd

The

*02

IRELAND.

Scotland- The following defects may be remarked in the prisons in Scotland.

They have no courts belonging to them ;*—generally want water and sewers;—> are not dean;—they are not visited by the magistrates;—too little attention is paid to the reparation of the fezes;—the keepers are allowed licences for the falc of the most pernicious liquors; the consequence of which is, that the county allowance being pud in money to the priibners, they generally spend it in wU/ktf instead of bread.

“ We do nor think it possible, that a nation can attain to improvement in science, “ to refinement of taste, and in manners, without, at the same time, acquiring “ a refinement in their ideas of justice, and feelings of humanity. ”f

f RELAND.J

Dona I was happy in finding at Dubi.iv in 1779, a New Prison almost ready for the removal of the prisoners into more airy and convenient apartments, in which I hoped Prisos. jjg (hocking intercourse of the two fezes which took place in the old prison, would be avoided. This new prison is one hundred and seventy feet in length, and has separate courts for men and women. The cells on the first and second floors are about twelve feet by eight, and on the upper floor twelve by four, all arched with brick, to prevent danger from fire. I was ferry to find dungeons, and wilhed they might never be used, except at night for the condemned. It might be bell to convert the chapel at the top of the house into an infirmary; for the lick rooms arc too finall, and likely to produce infection.

The original cause of this feeas to have been the following very fevers maxim is the Scotch law. *' After a debtor is impriibned, he oaght not to be indulged the benefit of the air* not even “ nsder a goard; for creditors have an interest, that their debtors be kept under close confinement,

that, by thefjnalsr careens, they may be brought to pay their debt.* Ad Seff. 14. June 1671. The Principles tf the Law of Scotland, 5th edit. p. 461.

f Bug* Jrwat'x Bijhry of Edhshagb, p. 298.

I I have frequently referred, in the early parts of this work, to the Irish acts of parliament for the regulation of prisons, as containing many articles highly laudable and worthy of imitation. I am ferry, however, that it is necessary for me to (ay, that the police of this country in these matters is as defective in point of exeention, as it is commendable in theory.

!! Tt would have been much better if the fame precaution had been used in Louden Newgate,

In

Sect. VI.

IRELAND.

20J

In the two courts there are pumps. Great attention should be paid to air and cleanliness in the staircases, cells and vaults, and in the narrow passages, to prevent them from becoming offensive and infectious.* I well remember the dreadful state of Dublin Newgate in the beginning of the year 1775, when I fawttumbers of poor creatures ill with the gaol-fever, unattended and disregarded.

The criminals in the goals of Ireland are very numerous. One reason of this may be, that in this country there are no houses of correction, unless cages could be called so, in which drunken or riotous persons are locked up for a night or two. f Another reason is, that acquitted persons are continued in confinement till they have discharged their fees to the clerk of the crown, or peace, the sheriff, gaoler and turnkey. J Even boys almost naked, and under the age of twelve, are sometimes confined a year or two for these fees, though amounting to no more than about forty shillings. || How surprising is it, that any kingdom can endure such injustice 1 It is a particular aggravation of it, that the prisoners thus confined, generally lose, at the same time, their allowance of bread. § I have heard that Judge Acto* (who

The passages are three feet and a half wide, and the staircases only two feet one inch.

f It may be an exception, that in a house adjoining to old Newgate called the black Jog, there were several fines. See. and that in another house (a fort of bridewell adjoining to the work-hoofe in Dublin)

I found in 1779 eleven young creatures; some of these for small offences were confined with OlltfagCOUS lunatics. The magistrates seem to have overlooked a compassionate direction In an act of their legislature (fee 3d of Geo. III. Chap. XXVIII.) “ that persons of insane mind and outrageous behaviour” are not to go In common with the other prisoners.

I There is an act for discharging without fees* persons who shall be acquitted “ of offences for “ which they are or shall be indicted, and for making a compensation to sheriffs, gaolers, clerks of “ the crown, and clerks of the peace, for such fees,” by a presentment on the respective counties. But many that are acquitted receive no benefit by it, because the presentment muff be made by the foreman of the petty jury to the grand jury, and confirmed by the Judges of a Size; and also the sum presented at one assize muff not exceed “ ten pounds if it be a county at large 5 ” or “ five pounds, if it be a county of a city or county of a town. ” 3d Geo. JIJ. Chap. V. /. too, (Of.

|| The fees of the Clerk of the crown, or peace £l 8 2 Irish.

Sheriff* - - .079

Gaoler - - -079

Turnkey - - oil

N. B. One Bulling English is thirteen pence Irish.

§ Since writing the above, by an act of sift and 2zd of Geo. HI* for revifittg, continuing and amending several temporary statutes, it has been enacted (page 827) “ that every person confined or “ to be confined in any of his majesty's gaols within this kingdom, charged with any criminal offence, shall be intitled to receive the prisoners allowance of bread, during the time of his or her said ‘‘confinement; and if such person shall, after having been tried for such offence and acquitted “ thereof, be confined for his or her fees, every such person so confined shall be in like manner ‘ intitled to the like allowance. ”—This however being the last clause in the act, has escaped the attention, as Sir Francis Hutchiu/on jufUy observed to me, of the compiler of the small gaol-code.

Dd

Dvblik

New

PllSOK.

was

IRELAND.

*°4

Diiu> was hoc Lord chief justice of the common pleas) often ordered the acquitted Niw prisoners to be discharged. In 1779 I obtained the releaie of some boy» from the

Faison. county gaol at KUmaimbam, on paying for them half fees; and of feme others from Newgate, the sheriffs of Dublin consenting to relinquish their fees. But as tuofc boys had been associated with the most profligate and abandoned felons for maoymonths,

1 did not in the least wonder to find that feme of them returned to their former, habitation in a few days.—In 1783 the deputy keeper of the new frifom gave me a list of sixteen detained for their fees. At Kilmainhara also 1 found there were fifteen acquitted prisoners confined for their fees in the dungeons. At both thele-prisons 1 restored to their families several who seemed the most proper objects of compassion. Some had children dying with the finall-pox, others bad hardly rags to cover them. But this distress had no more effect on the clerk of the crown, sheriffs and gaolers, than to engage them to give up half their fees.

In 1782, a bill was brought in by Mr. Provost Hatcbinfo»,* which passed into an act for discharging all those who-were then in confinement for fees only (21ft and 22d of George III. Chap. XLI.) I have every reason to hope, from the attention and humanity of this gentleman, that during the present iession, a perpetual act for the-fame purpose will be passed.

On passing the old'prison. frequently, I could not avoid observing officers from the recruiting regiments waiting at the doors and windows, to receive either the offenders who were permitted to enlist, or any of their associates. When the excessive profligacy and daring wickedness of this set of people is considered, the most melancholy apprehensions must be entertained,. of the dreadful consequences likely to reiult from their mixture with those who may have had a sober education, and have entered voluntarily into the service of their countryand likewise of the danger to society in general, from turning loose such a set of wretches at the close of a war.

Our English prisons have also contributed their share towards recruiting the army, enlisting being the condition on which maws have obtained their release from confinement, or immunity from fbmc other puniihmcat. I shall make no farther remark on this practice, but that if it be a necessary one, the legislature may receive some satisfaction from the effects of their late salutary laws respecting the health of prisoners. If this mode had been adopted while prisons were in their former state, it would have been the occasion of carrying the most fatal Aifeafes into the midst of our seamen and soldiers.

I Dull always ided with pfeafste on the nnexpected honour, which at this time was done me by the College.

t Theft dreadful conferences have followed in a new tailed regiment, which I law in Scotland

lO I?32.

There

Sect. VI.

IRELAND.

ZO5

There is a new Marshalsea prison in Dublin. The fipft stone was laid, as appears Dom.?* by the inscription, July 3, 1775.—At my visit in 1779, here were about sixty Mambu-prisoners.*—In the city Marshalsea, which is a very old building, there were fifty-five *A' debtors. Many debtors in this and the other prisons, being not alimented; are objects of compalfion. But some of them are relieved by the care of a humane society at Dublin, similar to that called the 'Thauhed-Hoeft Society in London.—Such focreties deserve the highest praise.—I wiftt however to recommend to compassion other prisoners (whole miseries have been long hid from the eyes of the public) who, though they seem to deserve aififtance less, yet need it more, to save them from the rain to which the bad date of the prisons exposes-them.

I observed with pleasure, the progressive improvements in the House of Indufiry. House

At my last visits, the house, infirmary, and cells for the lunatics were quite clean, , ov , ..... , ... . Industry

and the numerous inhabitants quiet and orderly; which is chiefly owing to the daily

mfpeftion of the governors in rotation. In the year which ended March 25, 1782,

there came in voluntarily two thousand eight hundred and nineteen; and four

hundred and sixty were compelled. August 2, 1783, the number was one thousand

four hundred and forty.

There is an Irish act for preserving the health of prisoners, passed in the 17th and

18th of George III. Chap. XXVIII. similar to the English aftj- for the fame purpose.

But I did not find it in any of the prisons.—There is another act of the same year,

which is similar to the English a ft, for “ the punishment, by hard labour, of

offenders who, for certain crimes, are or shall become liable to be transported.” But

the bulks on the ibames having cruelly destroyed many healthy and robust young

men, their cries probably reached the Iri/h shore, and prevented any proceedings

in consequence of that act.

In 1782, I found that the House of Commons had taken into consideration that

part of the police which respects prisons, and had appointed a goal-committee for

In one of the insolvent acts in Ireland (11th George II. Chap. XVI. p. 986) I /band a fingalar clause, which I wilh had been inserted in some of our late insolvent acts; to compel debtors, inllead of continuing in prison, and spending their substance there, “ to discover, and deliver of to their creditors, their estate and effects, in order to the satisfaction of their jolt debts. ”

f This differs from the English act in one important circttmfiance. The English ad requires “ the ' ‘ walls and cielings of the several cells and wards, both of the debtors and the felons, and also of any '* other rooms used by the prisoners in their relpcdive gaols and prisons, where ftlont are tsfitally confined, “ to be feraped and white-washed, once in the year at least, to be regularly washed-and kept clean, fee." whereas the Irish ad requires the lame precautions in the cells, wards, and rooms of gaols and prisons without restriction; for the clause where felons are nfioaSly ecnfineJ'* is omitted.—I have known it pleaded as an exenfe lor not white-walhing and keeping clean- the prisons in England where only debtors or petty offenders have been confined, that, they wete not obliged to it by the act of parliament.

this

IRELAND.

aoS

Dhui this parpofc. To this Committee I reponed the stale of several of the prisons in Dublin.*

I carefully ufpeded the gaols in Dublin in 178J. The following remarks on Pkhok. du jvtsr Prifn I think particularly worth mentioning. It is not kept dean—The pumps being out of order there is no regular supply of water—There is no proper separation of the foxes from one another—or of petty offenders from the most abandoned criminals—Numbers of acquitted prisoners are detained for the foes— Such as are committed to bertf loh*r arc confined in idlenels—There is no bedding, though the floors arc ftone—Spirituous liquors are fold in the prison f—Newcomers are robbed, or stripped and abused for the femrf-ftt or gamilh J—The proper prisoners have not the use of the day-rooms $—The dungeons are used as lodging-rooms

# At my visit in jane 1782* the Namber of Prisoners was as follows.

Debtors. Criminals*

In The New Prison aim. 3 Women. O Men. $2 Women. 4Z

Old Newgate a O 5 *5

Poor-court Marshalsea *49 a 3 O

City MarihaHea 47 6 O O

Thomas-court and Dcnore 1 t O O

City-Bridewell 0 0 2 at

t *s 2

The Number of Prisoners in Aogoft *7*3 wu>

In The New Prison . Debtors. 7 Criminals. 120

The Btstk Prison . 18 9

Poor-court Marshalsea - 130 0

City Mar&aUen - 61 0

Thomas-conn and Doooore 3 0

Kifmainham - 4 *5

City-Bridewell - O 411

| to Ac ritj UUiwiI tfene

tfo pbytidan or apothecary has attended In tills hoofe for two or

f A csgf» or gill of that pernicious and deftrofBve liquor vohijtty, is fold in Dublin lo cheap as three halfpence or two pence, and half a pint for three pence or fear pence. This makes it the common liquor of prisoners and of the lower class of people, who are often intoxicated by it almost to

| Garnish is three shillings and nine pence halfpenny Irish, several of those whom I had released gave the fame account of it.

S The day-room on the women's fide was always (hot of At my last visit the condemned criminals were in the men's day-room; and the women's day-room was kept locked, for two or three felons who lodged in the depnty keeper’s rooms to play in at tennis and other diversions.

for

Sect. VI.

IRELAND.

a7

for prisoners before they* are condemned—The lick have no proper rooms or Doacin beds, and no attention was paid to them*—No bathf—No divine service—The New

keeper does not reside in the prison—Criminals are made turnkeys^—The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up; nor any table of fees, rules or orders—

The allowance, two-pennyworth of bread a day; but being delivered only twice a week, and not fixed by weight, some of the prisoners are altnoft starved.

To this gaol there are ample appointments. But such appointments can be of little consequence, while the sheriffs and magistrates neglect their duty, and seldom or never inspefl the gaols or punish defaulters.—Are not such magistrates inexcusably guilty ?—Should they not be considered' as accessary to the crimes and abuses and miseries occasioned by their neglect

Most of the remarks now made on this gaol at Dublin, are applicable to many of the county gaols.

I enumerate these particulars, not with a view of aggravating the idea of inattention to these objects in Ireland, or making a comparison between their management, and that in this country (which is fiill greatly defective)-, but with a view of inciting the public-spirited Irish gentlemen, now occupied on this subject, to set an example of a thorough and effectual reform, which may be imitated by this nation.

By an act of 21ft and 22d of Geo. III. all judges, from and after the 24th of June 1783, are required to give in charge to the grand juries the two acts, one for the better preventing the severities and unjust exactions practised by gaolers against their prisoners, &c. (3d Geo. III.) the other for preserving. the health of prisoners in gaol, Sec. (17th and' 18th Geo. III.) and the judges are further required to examine into the state and situation of the different gaols, and the conduit of the gaolers, and'

Two of the committe of the House of Commons in June 1782 accompanied me to the new prison, and examined some of the sick who lay on the (tone-floors totally neglected. Dr. Clegborn and Dr. Scott have been finer ordered by the grand jury to attend them; but no bedding, no alteration of diet, and no nurses are ordered for them.—J was sorry to find in 1783, that the former ingenious young physician had died of the gaol-fever,

f The only building designed for a bath which I saw in the gaols in Ireland, was in the court-yard at Trim, June 17, 1782. I looked into it, and found it was the gaoler’s pig-fly.

J This prison is secured by a military guard.

|| The assizt of bread in Dublin is fixed every week, and put of in the Tol/ey.

White bread. Jane 15, 178a. Twopenny loaf. 16. 0 ox, 12 dr. 7 August 4, 1783. 16. ox. White bread. Twopenny loaf, 0 11 dr.

Fourpenny, 1 9 7 Fourpenny, 1 7 7

llovjbold Fourpenny, 2 6 7 Houjoold Fourpenny, 2 3 7

Sixpenny, 3 to 2 Sixpenny, 3 5 6

to

IRELAND.

208

Pntn. to impose a fine 00 the county not exceeding five hundred pounds for neglect of repairing and enlarging such gaols.—Lord Temple, Lord Lieutenant in 1782, whose spirited and patriotic exertions in Ireland will be long remembered there, ordered the sheriffs to report the state of the county gaols, directing _at the same time the (ft*) acts relative to prisons* to be sent to every sheriff. His lordship also intro* duccd a new mode of execution at the Ners-prison and Kilma inborn. The criminals come out of a front window on a scaffold, which falling down, they are left hanging.

Crastsk- Having taken notice of several of the orphan-schools abroad, I cannot help adding Schools, an account of iome particulars relating to the Protestant Charter-SchooU.

Their number is forty-one, besides four nurseries to supply them with children. In viiiting them I carried with me a sermon preached before the incorporated society, (to which is added an account of the severalfcbooli) published in 17S1, at the request of the society. In the two schools near Dublin, that at Clontarf-Strand for boys, and at San try for girls, I was greatly surprised to find but forty-six in the former, and thirty-four in the latter, though the numbers given in the puUished account were a hundred boys and forty girls. At Kilkenny and Castledcrmot the deficient numbers were twenty-six in the former, and seventeen in the latter s and there was a like deficiency in feme of the other schools. These schools are managed by a committee of fifteen, who meet every week in Dublin.-|- This committee has lately discovered a confeioufods of their error in publishing such false accounts, and suffer-iflg them to be delivered from the pulpit; for in the lad epbemerit the true numbers seem to be given j and they amount to about (even hundred (or near a third) Ids than the numbers which bad been before dated.

The maders of these schools hold a certain quantity of land belonging to the society, for which they pay no higher rent than was paid when the ground was originally granted. Every mader is allowed a salary of £ 12 Irish; and contracts for the clothing, dier, and work of the children. These contracts are so low (viz. annual clothing £1 15:0 Irish; diet £3:2:6) that the date of mod of the Jchttlt which I visited was so deplorable, as to disgrace protestantism and encourage popery in Ireland, rather than the contrary.

If the committee finds a decrease in their funds, a less number of thele schools with proper attention, will do the society much more credit than a large number of such sickly, naked and half starved children as I found in them. In shorts these schools demand a thorough parliamentary inquiry.

May I be allowed to hint, that there should be one plain decent uniform for all the children—Distinel schools for each fex—Clean linen twice a week—A convenient

See the lift note in pagt 203. t There is besides a local committee for superin ten ding each school.

bath—

Sbct. VI.

I R E L A N B. v i

bath—A larger allowance to the matters* for diet, and for wattling, fire and candles— A crib bedstead for each child—Rooms appropriated to the sick, and an apothecary for each house—Distinft school-rooms, work-rooms and dining-rooms, and an area endofed for play—A dairy and pantry—The matter’s and mistress’s bed-room situated so as to look into the children’s dormitory—The provincial nurseries abolished, and that at Dublin put on a larger plan (since if proper attention were paid to the children, the ad million of a child would be a matter of favour and intreaty)f—That a check should be kept on the local committees by the occasional inspection of one of the committee of fifteen, whose travelling expences might be paid by the society—That the rules and orders for every department should be conspicuously hung up—That premiums and every encouragement ihoulc} be given to the most cleanly and diligent children—And the houses Pme-mbitened once a year,'

I beg leave further to suggest, that it seems highly delirable that these fcfiools should he in the vicinity of large teams; both for a more easy supply of provifipns, medical assistance, &c and, more particularly, for the convenience of frequent Visits from the local committees, without whose unremitting attention to enforce the prescribed rules, all the endeavours of the gentlemen in Dublin wijl be absolutely fruitlels.

I have generally found that in schools so situated, more attention has been paid to the children by the persons concerned in their education, than in those at romcmtlesdittance.

Many of the hospitals in Dublin may be viewed with pleafyre. In the Bbii-coat Hospital, the boys looked healthy and cheerful. Stephens’s, Simpfan’s, St'. Patricks and the Infirmary at the Foundling Hospital, were some of the cleanest. The governors of Mercer's Hospital have lately adopted a new and salutary contrivance. One pane in each of the upper faJhes is taken out, and its place suppjied by a fine wire lattice painted green -, which rendered all the wards (at my vifirin 1783) fresher anymore agreeable than those in any ether hospital in the city, though this is situated ip' the closest part of it. Before I quit the subject, I shall take the liberty to speak a word in favour of the Military, who are crowded in their Hospital (which is an old and incommodious building) into a kind of endofed cases, fwatming with vermin;' and are almost (lifted, moll of the windows being fattened down.

III the jiceeuMt the HifbUuut Schools in Scotland, fagt 26, it is fipd, io fa£ the insufficiency “ of the school-masters salaries has been found to be one great source of irregularities.—For th,efe e* reasons, and considering the advanced price of provisions in every part of the country, as weft as * the importance of placing their school-snafters in a situation above want, the Society anxionfly >Wilh that every school-master in their service shall have thtir yearly salary increased." . ?.

f I was not at the nursery at Mtmiva* in Cmwr|h $ but I law several children lately sent from thence, who were distempered, half naked objects. I was further Confirmed in my opinion of the inutility of the provincial oorferies, on being infoimed at one of the best ichoola, that near (which had its full number of boys) that there was no difficulty in replenilhaeg it from the'neighbourhood, since parents frequently reqaefied to have their children taken in,

£ e

CH AKTEt-

SCHOOLS.

Dvblik

HosriTALS.

SECTION

no

ENGLISH PRISONS.

SECTION VII.

A PARTICULAR ACCOUNT O- K ENGLISH PRISONS.

AS the Tables of which the present Section will chiefly consist, contain several terms which cannot be familiar to the generality of 'my readers* I' shall begin with an explanation of them.

In the first page of every county, city, &C. the second articfe of the Gaoler or keeper's emolument is Fees-, by which are meant (itch only as are taken by him and his servants on the admission or discharge of a prisoner. The sums set down against this article are from the best information I could procure in triy repeated journies; but they differ sometimes from those specified in the tables of fits, where (itch are found.

' The next article under gaoler is Trtnjfcrts. The sum set down to this, is what (from the best intelligence I could gun) I found was allowed them for conveying convicts fattenced to transportanon to the respective sea-ports; and for paying the merchant or contractor what he was JnffeJed to denniand for their passage: although by the starutes 4th George I. and 8dt of his present Majesty; it is ehafted that “ The person “ or persons so contrafUng—(hall have a property and interestVso the service of the “ said offenders for such terms of years.”

With respect to the following article. Licence, I shall oWerve that in some places, as at Warwick, Oxford, Worcester, Exeter, Cheller city, Yarmouth, Colchester, Carlisle, Montgomery," Monmouth, Uflc, &c. the gaolerhas no licence, and yet is permitted, by connivance, to fell beer, and some gaolers even wine to the prisoners, and their visiters. In these cases I have made no diffinftion.

Under Prisoners in the fame page, the number which I found in the respective county-gaol on my Afferent visits is distingutshed into debtors and felons &c. The &?r. is meant to include two kinds of prisoners chiefly i viz. files and fettj Readers. By fius are understood such as are. detained till they pay a sum of money, nfise: — such as are obliged to find fecudty for good behaviour:—and such. as are committed for a limited term to mere confinement, or (which is much the fame) to hard labour. Of these latter some have been previously whipped, or burnt in the hand.—The fttty efenders are such as are feat to gaols instead of bridewells, for reasons mentioned in a former Won. These also in some gaols ace called sites* Betides these there are sometimes a few deftrters, which I have generally mentioned.

Wherever

Sect. VII.

ENGLISH PRISONS.

(

in

Wherever there were tables of fees, I thought myself obliged to give ex act and literal copies of them: I am not therefore answerable for the improprieties of exprefilon, or defects of form to be found in some of them: but to prevent tiresome and useless repetitions, I have abridged the formalities of preamble and conciufion. For the same reason, I have used the fame liberty, with regard to the rules and orders of the few prisons that have such; as I have done likewise by the lifts of benefactions and legacies. Where no mention is made of rules, &c. it may be concluded, that there are none hung up in that prison. Where there is no table of fees, I commonly note the defect.*

I have described no prison but from my own examination at the several dates set down before the number of’prisoners. At each visit I entered every room, cell, and dungeon with a memorandum book in my hand, in which I noted particulars upon the lpot. My description will to some readers appear too minute; but I chose rather to relate circumstances, than to characterize in general terms. By these, the legislature will be better acquainted with the real state of gaols j and magistrates will be able to judge whether the prisons over which they preside, and to which they commit offenders, be fit for the purposes they are designed to answer. I might add, that a variety of descriptions may possibly suggest something useful in the plans of such prisons as may hereafter be erected; since whatever may appear worth copying may be extracted from any.-j-

I have here and there taken the liberty of pointing out what fiemed to me, as I viewed a prison, an obvious remedy of some defect that happened to strike me. But I did not examine with the accuracy of a surveyor; and hope I shall not be thought to direct in the style of a dictator.

As in my first edition, I mentioned, that the state of some of our prisons was so much altered for the better, that an idea could scarcely be formed of the condition they had been in a few years ago j so I have now the additional satisfaction to remark, that the humanity and attention of the magistrates in some counties, have enabled me in this edition to erase the notes of censure respecting the management of gaols as to cleanliness, aliment, bedding, and the like, which I thought it my duty before to insert.

It should be observed, that by the statute 32d George II. if any gaoler, or keeper, demand feet not Tec down in a table signed by the justices, and afterwards confirmed by the judge or judges of affixes and justices, and hung up conipicuous in the prison j such demand is illegal, and the offender is liable to a penalty of fifty pounds to the person injured.

f My minuteness with respect to measurements and other circumstances relating to the construction and government of these buildings, will require no apology with those who consider, that in the formation of new establishments, it is of use to be acquainted with many things which, though apparently trivial, arc frequently of material consequence to the purposes intended to be answered.

THE

r

212

Tower.

LONDON.

THE TOWER.

Xhi Tower is a strong fortrels, and the only prison in England for date-delinquents of rank. The care of it is committed to an officer called the Constable of the Tower, who has under him a lieutenant, a deputy-lieutenant called the governor, and many other officers, among whom are forty warders, whole uniform is the lame with the king’s yeomen of the guards. Nineteen of these warders have separate houses well furnished, in any of which, as the governor is pleaied to order, the state-delinquents may be confined; and the custom has been to assign them two of the best rooms on the first floor: then, iron bars are fixed to their windows by the board of works. Sometimes they are committed to close confinement; but in general they are at liberty to walk in the area of the tower, attended always with a warder.

There had been no prisoners here for several years before my visit in 1779; and when there are any, they are soon brought to a legal trial, and consequently their confinement can never be long. Six shillings and eight pence a day are allowed by government for their subsistence; but they leldom accept this allowance.

September 1, 1783, there were no prisoners. Mr. Laurens was the' last, who went out December 31, 1781.

In this Fortress, besides the houses just mentioned, there are several public offices and store-houses; such, particularly, as the office of Ordnance, the Jewel-office, the Mint, and buildings for holding artillery and arms.

NEWGATE.

NEWGATE

J'tilte t’V

K.T/ie AWyekt fftwjr H. /i'iA/ai /i>r Me Zinidi-i/.i ('. 'Jit/I /ii'tW.i

J). TAe. bnu/r muter Mr t’Auye/ E. t/tue/v E A'Mer (1/mu

G . (ef/v /hr Me Tie/raetvrt/

H. Pa/jaye tv Me (vmtemnett fe/i>

I. Jt^voye tv Me Sejjeveto Jfvuve

K. hard.

L. nett-Hvvmj /vrTMH&ryv

M. Cettar- Steurv

"N. Piiptiyr.i. a-tmr on Me (W/arA'/vor.

Sect. VII.

LONDON.

213

NEWGATE.

GAOLER, Richard Akerman. Newgate.

Salary, £200.

Fees, Debtors, - £0: 8: 10.

Felons, - o: 18: 10.

Misdemeanors or Fines, o: 14: 10.

Transports, - o: 14: 10.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, j a penny loaf a day, (weight Dec. 1782, 8£ez. Aug. 1783, Felons, $ 9i»z.) few, felons on the common fide a three

halfpenny loaf. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 5: 6.

Felons &c. 0: 2: 6.

Number, tHb.on. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons tcc.

1775, March 5, 33, 190. *779> Aug. l6> 5b 141.

1776, 1, 38, 129. 1782, Dec. 18, 3> 291.

May 17, 46, 212. 1783, Aug. 22, 1 <3. 224.

Dec. 26, 33, IJ2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Villette.

Duty, Sunday twice , every day prayers with the condemned;

once a month sacrament.

Salary, was ^3$, &c. now augmented. (See Remarks.)

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Olney.

£$o, now £100, for all prisoners.

THE builders of Old Newgate seem to have regarded in their plan, nothing but Remarks. the Tingle article of keeping prisoners in safe custody. The rooms and cells were so close, as to be almost the constant feats of disease, and sources of infection } to the destruction of multitudes, not only in the prison, but abroad. The city had therefore very good reason for their resolution to build a new gaol. The plate will give a better idea of it than any description. I give the plan, rather to satisfy the curiosity of my readers, than as a model to be followed. Many inconveniences of the old gaol arc avoided in this new one: but it has some manifest errors. It is now too late to point out particulars. All I will say, is, that without more than ordinary care, the prisoners in it will be in great danger of the gaol-fever.

The

11+

LONDON.

x.*<.jn. The cells built in Old Newgate a few years since for condemned malefactors, are still used for the fame purpose. I shall therefore give some account of them. There are upon each of the three Soors five; all vaulted, near 9 feet high to the crown. Those on the ground-floor measure full 9 feet by near 6; the five on the first (lory are a little larger (9! by 6) on account of the set-off in the wall; and the five upper-most, still a little larger for the same reason. In the upper part of each cell, is a window double grated, near 3 feet by if. The doors are inches thick. The strong stone wall is lined all round each cell with planks, studded with broad-headed nails. In each cell is a barrack-bedstead. I was told by those who attended them, that criminals who had affected an air of boldness during their trial, and appeared quite unconcerned at the pronouncing sentence upon them, were struck with horror, and lhed tears, when brought to these darksome solitary abodes.

The chapel is plain and neat. Below is the chaplain's feat, and three or four pews for the felons; that in the centre is for the condemned. On each fide is a gallery: that for the women is towards their ward: in it is a pew for the keeper, whose presence may let a good example, and be otherwise useful. The other gallery towards the debtors ward is for them. The stairs to each gallery are on the outside of the chapel. I attended there several rimes, and Mr. Villtttt read the prayers distindtly, and with propriety: the prisoners who were present, seemed attentive: but we were

disturbed by the noil'e in the court. Surely they who will not go to chapel, who are by far the greater number, should be locked up in their rooms during the time of divine service, and not suffered to hinder the edification of such as are better

disposeti.

The Chaplain (or ordinary) besides his salary, has a houie in Newgate-street, clear of land-tax; lady Barnadiflm’s legacy, £6 a year; an old legacy paid by the governors of St. Bartholomew’s hospital, £10 a year; and lately had two freedoms yearly, which commonly fold for £25 each; and the city generally presented him once in six months with another freedom. Now he has not the freedoms, but his salary is augmented to £180, and the sheriffs pay him £3: 12: o. He engages when chosen to hold no other living.

Dehors have every Saturday from the chamber of London eight stone of beef: fines four stone: and some years felons eight stone. Debtors have several legacies. I inquired for a list of them, and Mr. Akerman told me the table in Maitland's Survey was authentic. The amount of it is £$z: y: 8 a year. There arc other donations mentioned by Maitland, amounting to sixty-four stone of beef, and five dozen of bread.*

Alter the nots in 1780 the debtors were confined in Clerkenwell bridewell, and the New-Prison: oat a: my lad vibt they were in Newgate.

To

Sbct. VII. LONDON.

To these he adds the donation of “ Robert Dow, who left £1:6:8 yearly for ever to the sexton or bellman of St. Sepulchre’s, to pronounce solemnly two exhortadons to the persons condemned, the night before their execution; in these words

“ You prisoners who are within “ Who for wickedness and fin,

“ after many mercies Ihewn you, are now appointed to die tomorrow in the forenoon, “ give ear and understand that tomorrow morning the greatest bell of St. Sepulchre’s “ shall toll for you in form and manner of a passing bell as uled to be tolled for “ those that are at the point of death, to the end that all godly people may “ pray, &c. &c.”*

Here I cannot forbear mentioning a practice which probably had its origin from the artcient mode of torture, though now it seems only a matter of form. When prisoners capitally convicted at the Old Bailee are brought up to receive sentence, and the judge alks, “ What have you to say why judgment of death and execution should not be awarded against: you,” the executioner flips a whipcord noose about their thumbs.—This custom ought to be abolished.

At my vifu in 1779, the gaol was clean, and free from offensive feents. On the felons fide, there were only three lick, in one of the upper wards.—An infirmary was

building near the condemned cells. Of the 141 felons Sec. there were 91 conviits and fines, who had only the prison allowance of a penny loaf a day: Mr. Akennan generously contributed towards their relief. In the felons court, the table of fees painted on a board was hung up.

This gaol was burnt by the rioters in 1780, but is rebuilt on the fame plan. The men’s quadrangle is now divided into three courts. In the first court, are those who pay three shillings and six-pence a week for a bed; in the next, the poorer felons; and in the other, now the women. — Under the chapel, are cells for the refractory. Two rooms, adjoining to the condemned cells, are built for an infirmary, in one of which at my last visit there were sixteen lick. Of the two hundred and ninety-one prisoners in 1782, two hundred and twenty-five were men, and sixty-six women. Upwards of an hundred of them were transports, eighty-nine fines, twenty-one under sentence of death, and the remainder lay for trial. Some of the condemned had been long sick and languishing in their cells.f

Maitland', Hijlory of London, vol. I. p. 26. edit. 1760.

t At the end of the book, I shall give a table of all the executions for London and Middlesex, during twelve years pad.

An execution day is too much, with us, a day of riot and idleness, and it is found by experience, that the minds of the populace are rather hardened by the spectacle, than affected in any falwary manner. Might no: these evils be amended by having the report within a week after sentence, and the execution, soon after, either in the area before Newgate, or before the sessions-house

Since the above was written, I learn with satisfaction '.hat the plate of execution is altered according to the foregoing idea.

« 5

Nuwoate.

TABLE

ai6

LONDON.

TABLE OF FEES.

Kevcati. Londonfc. A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of Newgate within the said

City of London for any Priibner or Priibnen committed or coming into Gaol or Chamber-Rent there or discharge from thence in any Civil ASion settled and eilab lifted the nineteenth day of December in the third year of the reign of his Majesty King Georje the Second Annopu Domini 1729 pursuant to an Act of Parliament lately made intituled An Act for the Relief of Debtors with respect to the Imprisonment of their Perions.

£. S. D.

Every priibner on the nifrr-fide shall pay to the keeper for his entrance fee 030

Every prisoner on the ma&er-fide hall pay for chamber-room afe of bed bedding and

iheets to the keeper there being two in a bed and no more each per week - -013

Every priibner on rite laid nufter-fide who at his own defirt shall have a bed to himself,

Hull pay to the keeper for chamber-room afe of bed bedding and Iheets per week - 026

Every debtor shall pay to the keeper for his discharging fee - o 6 to

And to all the turnkeys two shillings and no more - - - -020

No other fee for the ofe of chamber bed bedding or iheets or upon the commitments or discharge of any priibner on any civil adioa

Edaid Beeber Roi* Jl/ep Itfi Barnard

Robt Ratmokp R. Eybb

Tho* Pskge llt

Mr. Aktrman {hewed me another table of fees, which was given him for his direction when he commenced keeper. It is as follows:

Fees to be taken by the keeper of Newgate.

For every debtor's discharge

For every felon's discharge

For every mifdetneanoor

Every debtor’s entrance on the mailer’s fide

Every felon's entrance on the mailer’s fide

Every person admitted into the press-yard

For every transport's discharge

For every bailable warrant

£. S. D.

o 8 10

o 18 10

o 14 10

030 o 10 6

3 3 0

o 14 10

362

Rix.

Rob. Willmat. Rob. Ladbreke. Walter Bernard. Samuel Pennant.

HIS

Sect. VII.

LONDON.

117

HIS MAJESTY’S PRISON THE FLEET, for debtors.

WARDEN, John Eyles, Esq.

Deputy Wardeh and Clerk of the Papers,

Daniel Hopkins, now William Lowe.

Salary

Fees, £i: 6: 8.

o: a: o Turnkey.

Licence, Beer and Wine to John Cartwright, now William Hall, who holds of the warden oruleafe the tap &c. (See Remarks.)

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none. Garnish, '£0: 2: 0. Number, IniheHouse, Id the Rules. In the House. In the Rules.

774. April26, >71. 7>- 1782, Jan. 8, 62, 6.

1776 2. 241, 78. Dec. 30, >S9. 3>-

1779, Aug. 13, >47. 37- 1783, Aug. 27, 141, 49-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Horner.

Duty, Sunday; Wednesday prayers.

Salary SURGEON, None.

TO this prison were committed formerly those who incurred the dilpleafure of the Star-chamber. In the i6th of Charles I. when that court was abolished, it became a prison for debtors; and for persons charged with contempts of the courts of chancery, exchequer, and common pleas.

In 1728, many abuses practised by the warden were the subjeii; of parliamentary inquiry.

The prison was rebuilt a few years since. At the front is a narrow court. At each end of the building, there is a small proje&ion, or wing. There are four floors, they call them galleries, besides the cellar-floor, called Bartholomew-Fair. Each gallery conflfts of a passage in the middle, the whole length of the prison, 66 yards; and rooms on each fide of it about 144 feet by 124, and 94 high. A chimney and window in every room. The passages are narrow (not seven feet wide) and darkilh, having only a window at each end.—On the first floor, the ball-gallery, to which you ascend by eight lleps, are, a chapel, a tap-room, a coffee-room (made out of two

F f rooms

Fleet.

Remarks.

218

LONDON.

F-set. rooms for debtors), a room for the turnkey, another for the watchman, and eighteen rooms for prisoners.—Besides the coffee-room and tap-room, two of those eighteen rooms, and all the cellar-ffoor, except a lock-up room to confine the disorderly, and another room for the turnkey, were held by the tapster, "John Cartwright, who bought the remainder of the lease at public auction in 177J- The cellar-floor is sixteen ffeps below the hall-gallery. It consists of the two rooms just now mentioned, the tapster’s kitchen, his four large beer and wine cellars, and fifteen rooms for prisoners. Theie fifteen, and the two before-mentioned on the hall-gallery, the tapster lets to prisoners for from four to eight shillings a week.

On the first gallery (that next above the hall-gallery) are twenty-five rooms for prisoners. On the Jeccni gallery twenry-seven: one of them, fronting the staircase, is their committee-room. A room at one end is an infirmary. At the other end, in a large room over the chapel, is a dirty billiard-table; kept by the prisoner who deeps in that room. On the highest story are twenty-seven rooms. Some of these upper rooms, crz. those in the wings, are larger than the rest; being over the chapel, the tap-room, &c. All the rooms I have mentioned are for master's-fide debtors.

The weekly rent of those not held by the tapster is 1 s. yd. unfumiftied. They fall to the prisoners in succession, thus: when a room becomes vacant, the first prisoner upon the lift of such as have paid their entrance-fees, takes possession of it. When the prison was built, the warden gave each prisoner his choice of a room according to his seniority as prisoner. If all the rooms be occupied, a new comer must hire of some tenant a part of his room; or ihift as he can. Prisoners are excluded from all right of succession to the rooms held by the tapster, and let at the high rents aforesaid.—The apartments for common-fide debtors are only part of the right- wing of the prison. Belides the cellar (which was intended for their kitchen, but is occupied with lumber, and lhut up) there are four floors. On each floor is a room about 14 or 2J feet square, with a fire-place; and on the sides, seven closets or cabins to sleep in Such of these prisoners as swear in court or before a commissioner that they are not worth five pounds, and cannot subsist without charity, have the donations which are sent to the prison, the begging-box, and the grate. Of them there were at one of my visits sixteen, at some other times not so many.

I have in the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons 1728,.a table of some charities: but no such table was hung up in the prison. f

An impoEtion of the fume kind is noted in the Report of the Gaol-Committee, March zo9 17*8. /. 8.

+ It was ordered by the judges Ejrt, Price, Page and Denton: “ that a table of gifts and beqaefls

made for the prisoners in the Fleet, expressing the particular purposes for which the fame were given, be prepared by the warden, and hang np in the hall of the said prison.* See Table of Fee®, Trinity term 1727 in the Report of the Gaol-Committee, /age 16.

There

Sect. VII.

LONDON.

319

There is plenty of water from the river and pumps.; and a spacious court behind the prison.

I mentioned the billiard-table. They also play in the court-yard at {kittles, mi/fifippi, fives, tennis, &c. And not only the prisoners: I saw among them several butchers and others from the market; who are admitted here as at another public house.— The fame may be seen in many other prisons where the gaoler keeps or lets the tap. Besides the inconvenience of this to prisoners; the frequenting a prison lessens the dread of being confined in one. On Monday night there was a wine-club: on Thursday night a beer-club: each lading usually till one or two In the morning. I need not say how much riot these occasion j and how the sober prisoners, and those that are sick, are annoyed by them.

Seeing the prison crowded with women and children, I procured an accurate lift of them; and found that on (or about) the 6lh of April 1776, when there were on the master’s-fide 213 prisoners, on the common-fide 30, total 243; their wives (including women of an appellation not so honourable) and children were 475.

I was surprised to fee in this prison, a table of fees containing only those of the clerks of the papers and inquiries; and that the date of it was 1727, 1. e. before the Committee of the House of Commons made their inquiry. I did not doubt but another table was settled after that inquiry; and that it contained the warden’s fees also. But upon asking the clerk of the papers for a later table, I was referred to that which hung up. It is as follows.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Clerk of the Papers and by the Clerk of the Inquiries of the Fleet Prison pursuant to the Resolution of the Honourable XX of the Court of Common Pleas in the Eallcr and Trinity Terms 13th George I. 1727.

RESOLUTION

C. s. D.

6th. That there is due and ought to be paid to the clerk of the papers for every discharge

of every action - - - - -- _ - 026

And for the copy of every cause not exceeding three - . - o I o

And for each and every cause exceeding three causes - . - o o;

Besides the ilh a piece for each of the said first three causes yth. That there is due and ought to be paid to the clerk of the papers for his certificate of the prisoner’s discharge delivered to the prisoner himself without any regard to the number of causes he Hood charged with - - - -02 6

And for his certificate to the warden of such discharge - - 026

Sth. That there is due and ought to be paid to the clerk of the inquiries on the discharge

of a prisoner by the creditor and not by fupcrfeeleas - - -026

14th. That there is a fee of 5 lb 4d due to the clerk of the papers for the allowance of every writ of habeas corpus and 4lh for the return of the first cause and 2 Ih for every other cause and no more.

There is in the prison a table of rules or orders. They were made at very distant times, from the reign of Queen Elizabeth, to the date they bear; and some of Them partly coincide with others: those which do so I have put together to avoid repetition, and have presumed to abridge the whole.

Fleet.

HILARY

220

L O N D O N.

FitIT.

HILARY 3d GEORGE II. 1719.

t. 2. 3. Warden or deputy to appoint turnkeys See. with arms: to flop persons bringing arms, and watch if an escape be in agitation.

4. Warden to didribute charity-money. He, or his agent, to keep one key of the box; and the

prisoners another.

5. 6. 12. if a mader-fide debtor shall neglect for three months to pay his chamber-rent; the warden

may, cot lock him up, bat, remove him to the common-fide; delivering to him his goods by a witnessed inventory. After discharge, if legal dues be still unpaid, he may be detained in the common-ward: the door of which is never to be ihut bet at night (summer at ten, winter at nine): and then a watchman mod attend to open it for those who mud go to the yard Scc. Such as attempt to escape, or greatly mlfbehave, may be Unit up in a dose room or dungeon.

N. 8. It was reported to the four judges whose names are here subscribed, and who made inquiry concerning it, to be boarded whole/cme and dry. ”

9. 15. Warden to repair the whole hoofe, chapel, drains. See. and keep all clean. To take care that divine ferrice be duly performed, and the sacraments administered. Prisoners to attend.

A gain ft clandestine Fleet-marriages, o. Those who blaspheme, curse, swear, or are disorderly, to be set in the stocks. i x. 13. Warden or deputy to dispose of the chambers, and tap: and fee that good order be observed in the public rooms, Ac.

14. Warden to take efreftual care that no prisoner be carried to a spunging-house; and that no garnish be demanded from a new comer.

15.. Warden to caafe a tail* of gifts and bepujls, written in a fair and legible hand, to be hnng of in the hall. And to fee that no prisoner be defrauded of his Ihare. None of the servants to partake or distribute.

16. Every prisoner not worth five pounds. Sec. (As before in remarks.)

17. Two rooms to be an infirmary for comxnon-fide debtors. No prisoner obliged to sleep with one

that is difcafec.

19. Coroner’s inquest upon the dead: and corpse to be delivered to the friends, free of cost.

2C. Warden not to remove a prisoner to the King’s Bench by habeas corpus.

21, 11, 23, 24, 25, 26. Warden to keep books, and register commitments, courts from whence, declarations, discharges, writs of habeas corpus. Tipstaff and judge's clerk to keep each a separate book of prisoners delivered of at a judge’s chamber.

27. All those books, except the tipstaff’s, to be kept in the public office of the clerk of the papers;

accessible to all persons for copying. See. zS. No clerk, officer, or servant of any judge to take a fee on occasion of a petition or complaint, founded upon the foregoing orders, or any misgovernment.

29. That the warden and his officers do treat the several prisoners in his custody with all tenderness and humanity: and that such prisoners do behave themselves toward the warden with that submission and regard which the law requires.

R. Evke 7 S Alex. Pcktok

Robt Pxice 5 C J* Foetiscue a

There was, moreover, a little code of laws, eighteen ia number, enacted by the master’s-fide debtors, and printed by D. Jones 1774. It established a president, a secretary, and a committee, which was to be chosen every month, and to consist of three members from each gallery. These were to meet in the committee-room every Thursday: and at other times when summoned by the cryer, at command of the president, or of a majority of their own number. They were to raiie contributions by assessment: to hear complaints: determine disputes: levy fines5 and seize goods for payment.

Their

Sect, VII.

LONDON.

22J

Their sense to be deemed the sense of the whole house. The preftdent or secretary to hold the caflt the committee to dispose of it. Their scavenger to wash the galleries once a week; to water and fwccp them every morning before eight; to sweep the yard twice every week; and to light the lamps all over the house. No person to throw out water, &c. any where but at the links in the yard. The cryer might take of a Granger a penny for calling a prisoner to him; and of a complainant two pence for summoning a special committee. For blasphemy, swearing, riot, drunkenness. Sec. the committee to fine at discretion: for damaging a lamp, fine a shilling. They were to take from a new comer, on thefirfi Sunday, besides the two shillings garwjk to be spent in wine, one shilling and six-pence to be appropriated to the use of the house.

Common-fide prisoners to he confined to their onvn apartments, and not to associate with these law-makers, nor to use the fame conveniences.

The above was the account of the Fleet before ir was burnt by the rioters in

1780. It is rebuilt on the fame plan. The floors of the cellar, the hall, and the first story are now done, and arched with brick. The tapster still has all the cellar-floor. He and several of the prisoners keep dogs, which nuisance should never be permitted in prisons. The billiard and miflifippi tables are put down, and the little code of laws abolished.—In 1783, from July 7, to Aug. 25, not one prisoner was brought in — Robert Baflan, a crown prisoner, was committed Nov. 29, 1776, and after the fire surrendered himself under the proclamation Nov. 17, 1781, and was here at my lad visit. Clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up. Now also is hung up the following table of fees.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Warden of the Prison of the Fleet, for any Prisoner or Prisoners Commitment, or coming into Gaol or Chamber Rent iherc, or discharge from thence, in any Civj! Action. Settled and cAablished the nineteenth Pay of January, in the third Year of the Reign of his Majesty King George the Second, A.D. 1729, pujTuant to an Act of Parliament lately made, intided. An Act for the Relief of Debtors, in respect to the Imprisonment of their Persons.

Every prisoner charged with one or more actions (who at his own desire shall go on the £.

masterVfide) to pay to the warden for a commitment fee - - 1

livery prisoner charged with one or more actions (who shall go on the common-fide) not

being Intitled to partake of the poor's box, to pay - - - O

Every prisoner intitled to partake of the poor's box, nothing.

Every prisoner to pay for his discharge - - - - o

Every such prisoner on the roafter’s-fide, who at his own desire shall have a bed to himself,

to pay for chamber room, use of bed and bedding and sheets, to the warden per week o If two in a bed, and no more, for chamber room, use of bed, bedding and iheets, each to

pay to the warden per week - - - - o

If the prisoner finds his own bed, bedding and Iheets (which the warden is in no fort to hinder him of) then he shall pay for chamber room to the warden per week o If there be two prisoners in one bed, finding their own bed, bedding and fiiects, then each

of them to pay to the warden per week - - - o

Every prisoner not being intitled to partake of the poor’s box, to pay to the porter and

gaoler, now called turnkeys, on his commitment - - - o

Every prisoner on a commitment upon a surrender at a judge's chamber, to pay to the

tipAa*F - - - - o

S. Z>.

6 8

<3 4

7 4

2 6

1 5

3

0 7*

1 o

t S

Every

FfcEET.

222

LONDON.

FtltT.

Xt»

I.CDCAYE.

Reuaik >.

Every prisoner on a commitment upon a babeai corf mi at a judge’s chambers, to pay £. Si Z>.

to the tipftadf - - - . - .04s

Every prisoner on a commitment in court, to pay to the tipstaff . -076

No other fees for any prisoner for the use of chamber, bed, bedding or (heels, or upon commitment or discharge of any prisoner in any civil action, nor any commitment fee to be taken of any prisoner intitled to partake of the poor's box, nor any chamber rent to be taken of any prisoner on the common fide,

Ed. Bdtamj. R. Raymond.

Job* Thompson. R. Eyre.

Rob. Jlfop. Tho. Pekgei.lt.

Joba Barnard.

NEW LUDGATE,

IN B I S H O P C A T E-S T R E E T.

Th i s prison for debtors who are free of the city, for clergymen, proctors and attorneys, was formerly a bridewell to the London work-house adjoining.

On the ground-floor are, a long-room, a tap-room, and a kitchen. In each of them is a staircase; leading first to eleven rooms for master-fide debtors—viz. over the long-room, a sizeable chamber, and a room on each of the two floors above: over the tap-room, four finall rooms, which have iron bars at the windows, and a larger room above them: over the kitchen, a sizeable chamber, and two rooms above. The common-fide debtors are in two large garrets, the For eft and Dock, which have no fire-places.—The prison is out of repair, the walls and cielings very black, being never white-washed. A small court, with a cistern for river-water which is not from the main. No infirmary: no bath. The chapel is common to the prison and work-house. Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Henry Foulkes, now Mr. Roje.

The city allowance is ten stone of beef a week: to which has been added since the 9th of February 1776, a twopenny loaf every other day for each prisoner (weight Aug. 1783, zi oz.). The lord mayor and sheriff> fend annually coals: and Mcfirs. Calvert and Co. formerly sent from the Peacock brewhouse weekly a generous donation of two barrels of small beer. Keeper’s salary, £70: fees, fee table. He lives diilant; but the deputy is careful in his attendance.

I always found this prison clean. The tap is shut at ten every night. On Sunday, a board is placed at the gate, on which is painted, “ No admittance from 10 o’clock to 12, nor from 2 till 4.”

1774, April 27, Prisoners 29. 1779, Aug. 12, Prisoners 15.

1776, March 7, - 1782, Dec. 14, - - - 20.

May 15, - - - 29. 1783, Aug. 28, - - - 15.

Dec. 26, - - - 3-

A TABLE

Sect. VII.

LON

D

O N.

aij

A TABLE

OF FEES

To be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty’s Prison of Udcsti.

New

Loogatk.

Every prisoner shall pay at his or her coming in - - o

Every prisoner shall pay for chamber-room, bed bedding and iheets, in the bed fide called the mailer-tide, being two in a bed, each per week - - - o

Every prisoner on the second lodging called the common-tide, shall pay for use of chamber-rent, bed, bedding and iheets, two in a bed and no more, each per night - o

Every prisoner who at his own detire shall have a bed to himself in any of the bed rooms called the master-fide shall pay for bed bedding and Iheets per week - - o

Every prisoner who at his own detire has a bed to himself in the second lodging or common-

tide, shall pay for chamber-room, bed, bedding and iheets per night - - O

Every prisoner in the meanest ward, who at his own detire hath a bed to himself shall pay for the use of bedding See. per night - - - o

Every prisoner in the meanest ward, two in a bed and no more, for the uie of bed bedding Sec. per night - - - . . . o

If the prisoners find their own bedding (which the keeper shall in no wife hinder) then they shall pay for chamber-room if more beds than one in a room, each per week - o

If the prisoner hath a room to himself, and provide himself with bed and bedding, which the keeper is in no fort to hinder him of, then he shall pay for chamber-room per week - - - - -o

The prisoners inability to find a couch and to pay per week - - - o

The forementioned were signed Feb*. 23, 1729. by

Aldermen Judges To the keeper for hatch-

Becber Raymond fee at discharge - o

Jl/op Eyre To the turnkey for ditto o

Barnard Pengelly

S. D.

1 o

3

o

z 6

o 3

O 2 O I

O 3

° 4

o 1

r o

t a

The date shews that these fees were adapted to the old prison, and its sundry wards.

O lb D E R E D

Whosoever on the Sabbath-day shall be absent from chapel either at morning or evening service which ever may happen, unless ticknefs, lameness or (omc other reasonable excuse be made appear fof* ficiently satisfnftory, shall pay a tine of four-pence into the hands of the steward for the jCtmc being, for every such omission; and in failure thereof not to be admitted to any share of the allowance or traniient benefactions, which the following week may produce.

Signed

James Efdale.

N.J. Whoever is not in chapel before the second-' lctifon is ended, is forfeited as above.

A LIST

2*4

New

LONDON.

A LIST OF BENEFACTORS To the PRISON of LUDGATE.

Brvugbt ever - £n 7 4

Sis Thomas Greftum - £10 0 O Mr. John Bennet - I O 0

Sir Roger Martin 2 0 O Mrs. Holligrave, Widow - O 5 0

Sir John Peachy 0 5 O Mr. Robert Rogers - - 1 O 0

Sir Thomas Kneesworth - 1 0 0 Mr. Hugh Offlev - O S 0

Mr. James Smith - 0 5 4 Mrs. Joan Sanbeck - - I O 0

Mr. John Draper . - 0 <5 4 Mr. John Symmonds - O 4 O

Sir William Horne - 0 5 0 Mr. John Mar Hi - O 5 0

Mr. Robert Ferebrace - - 0 6 8 Mr. John Wooler - I 0 0

Lady Eliz. Maurice I O O Mr. William Parker - I 10 0

Sir William Peacock or Seacock 1 to 0 Mr. Thomas Chapman - O 6 0

Mr. Thomas Cottle a hind quarter Mr. Richard Jacob - 2 O 0

of beef, and a peck of oatmeal Mr. James Hodgion - O IO 0

value - i 0 O Mr. John Kendrick - 1 IO 0

Lady M. North in bread - 3 0 O Lady Mary Carew - - 2 O 0

Mr. William Reaper 1 0 O Mr. John Jackion - I O 0

Mr. Thomas Dawson - 0 9 O Sir Ralph Freeman - - s O 0

Mrs. Cooke, Widow of David Dr. Lancelot Andrews - 5 O 0

Cooke - 0 5 O Sir Thomas Cull am - . 3 O 0

Mrs. Margaret Dane, lS Hone of George Humble, Esq. - 4 O 0

beef and some bread value - 1 O 0 Mr. Merrydith - 1 2 0

Mr. John Heydon Aldero - 3 O 0 Mr. John Corbett - 2 IO 0

Lady Mary Ramsey - a IO O Lady Rich 30 O 0

Mr. Peter Blundell - 4 0 0 John Holby, Esq. - 22 O 0

Carried over - ^33 7 4 Total £<*9 '4 4

Mrs. Margaret Srmcott every eighth week: five Hulling* worth of penny 1 loaves.

i. e. annually—This is called Eleanor Gwynn’s bread. - I 12 6

Mr. Thomas Stretchier every third year £z , and £4 to discharge two prisoners every

fifth year

Mrs. Elia. Miflon the yearly prodace of £200 3 per cent, annuities for meat bread and

coals - - - 6 O O

Chamber of London yearly Mx. Middleton . - 3 2 6

Wor&ipfal Company of mercers the yearly intereil of £\$: 4: 1 old $. S. . annuities.

about - 1 7 O

Total fi+i 16 4

These benefactions are mostly paid by the merchant-taylors’, mercers’, drapers’, falters’ and other companies.—The sums are all called in my copy, Tearly (£c. gifts of the respective donors. I understand it to mean bequests for ever.

POULTRY

Sect. Vn.

LON

DON.

225

POULTRY COMPTER.

KEEPER, Christopher Hayes, who purchased of the city for life, and has now fold his property to Henry Weft.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, £0: ij: 8.

Felons, o: 13: 4.

Transports, taken from the Old Bailey by Mr. Merman.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

Pouimr

COMFTEK.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, a penny loaf a day (wt. Dec. 178a, 9oz. slug. 1783, tooz.) (See Remarks.)

Felons, a penny loaf a day, now a three halfpenny loaf (weight Aug. 1783, 1302.,;

Garnish, Debtors, £0:4:8. It is called ward-dues for candles &c.

Felons, 0: i: S.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons Sec.

1774, April 26, 77, 10. 1779, Aug. 6, 46. j. Impressed j,

1776, March 12, 72, 6. 1782, Dec. 16, 26, 7

May 15, 90. II. 1783, Aug. 24, 30, 19

Dec. 3, S3, O.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Dr. Truster, now Mr. Davis. Duty, now every Sunday. (See Remarks.) Salary, £30.

SURGEONS, Messrs. Devaynes and Higginfon. Salary, none, they make a bill.

FOR master’s-fide debtors there are about fifteen rooms between the inner and Remarks. outer gates. For common-fide debtors, fix wards within the inner gate, two of them on the ground-floor, viz. the Kings Ward, in which (1776) were 24 debtors; and the Prince's Ward, 9 debtors. Above those wards are the Middle Ward, in it were 20 debtors; and the Women’s Ward, 2 debtors. Above them are the Upper Ward, 1 r debtors; and the Jews Ward, 4 Jew debtors.* Near the middle ward, on the lame floor, is a close darkilh room for the lick. In each ward, a fire-place. In one of the rooms on the second floor (called the pump-room), the debtors have the convenience

It were to be wiflted that in other prisons also, those people had the generous and just indulgence of being kept separate.

G g

of

226

LONDON.

PCCLT.T

Cour> tl.

of water. The rooms are out of repair: but the debtors keep their floors very dean.. The court is small, but being paved with flat (tones, and the water constantly running, ir is frcfh and clean.

The tap-room is in the court. Adjoining is the ^ay-room, the Bell, for men and wcmen-felau. In a small court, there are two strong rooms (planked and itudded with nails) for men-fclons; and up stairs another night-room for men, and one for women. The women’s room was formerly occupied for a work-lhop by a prisoner, a Cooper; and the women slept in the Bell below. No straw or bedding.

On one fide of the court is a chapel; with a gallery for matter's-lide debtors. The chapel, and indeed the whole of this prison, was quite out of repair: but at my last vif;t was thoroughly repaired and white-waihed. For this improvement the pri Toners are obliged to the spirited and humane exertion of Mr. sheriff Ter/lor.

At the roof of the prison, are spacious leads, on which the master's-fide debtors are fomedmes allowed to walk: but then the keeper is with them: for the leads communicate with the adjoining houses, one of which affords a ready escape from so close a prison in case of fire.

Besides the penny loaf a day, which is from the chamber of London, there are fbme legacies to the debtors paid by the companies in this city, amounting to about £60 a year: they have also from the lherifis 32 pounds of beef on Saturdays, and they had formerly from the Peacock brcwhouse (MeflTrs. Calvert and Co.) a kind donation of two barrels of small beer a week.

In this prison eight men in 1776 had with them their'wives and nineteen children. The other prisoners, I learned, had forty-four wives and one hundred and forty-four children, not in the gaol.

The act for preferring rhc health of prisoners is not hung up. There is now painted on a board at the door, that no visiters are to be admitted on Sundays, from ten to twelve in the morning, nor from three to four in the afternoon.

The keeper pays to the chamber of London £30 a year rent, which is refunded to him for his trouble on night-charges.* He also pays window-tax, &c.

At this prison, as veil as at Nevj Lndgate, the Fleet, and King's Bench, I heard of the frequent ri£t$ of Dr. William Smith in 1776; who had been desired to visit the sick in the prisons of London, Westminster, and Semfhwari, by the committee of the Westminstor charity, in consequence of their humane resolution to appropriate to this purpose the Turpins of a collection made in the hard winter of J776. Sir Ciarlej Whir%osrth, the chairman, who tvas acquainted with the plan I had been employed OR for icrsic years, directed the Dc&or to apply to me for a list of the several prisons, with which I with pleafcre /applied him, and at the same time informed him of my intended publication.

Dr. Smith'- attention seemed 10 be chiefly turned towards debtors, who spoke with much esteem and gratitude of him and Mr. Ce/ent the apothecary, who also attended; and many beneficial effects proceeded from their management. Great alterations had taken place in prisons through the attention of Parliament before the Doctor’s visits g yet he difeorered many abuses and frauds still practised, which He laid before the public in two pamphlets, printed {otJ,.Brw in Paterno fter - Rrw. (776.

POULTRY

S*CT. VII.

LONDON.

«7

POULTRY COMPTER,

vi%.

A Table of Fees takes by the Warden, Gaoler, or Keeper of the Poultry Compter within the City of London for any Prisoner or Prisoners Commitment or coming into Gaol, or Chamber-Rent there. Or Discharge front thence, in any Cm/ AQien settled and establiflted the i£th January, in the 3d Year of the Reign of King George IX. and in the Year of our Lord 1729 pursuant to an Act of Parliament lately made, entitled “ An Act for the Relief of Debtors with ReQicd to the Imprisonment of their Persons.”

Every prisoner who at his own desire shall go into the belt ward on the master-fide shall pay to the keeper for his entrance fee To the turnkeys for such entrance -

Every prisoner in the belt ward on the malter-fide to pay to the keeper for his discharging fee

To the turnkeys upon such discharge ....

Every such prisoner in the best ward on the raafter*fide, who at his own desire (halt have a bed to himself to pay for chamber-room use of bed bedding and iheets, to the keeper per week ......

If two in a bed, and no more—for chamber-room, use of bed bedding and Iheets to pay to the keeper each per week ....

In the second ward on the mafier-fide to the keeper for their entrance fee to pay To the keeper on their discharge -

To the turnkeys on such discharge ....

Every such prisoner at his own desire shall have a bed to him or herself to pay for chamber, use of bed bedding and Iheets, to the keeper per week ..

If two in a bed and no more, to pay for chamber-room use of bed bedding and Iheets, each per week - - -

In the third ward commonly called the fifteenpenny ward entrance nothing, when discharged to the keeper .....

To the turnkeys on such discharge ....

Every such prisoner shall have at his own desire a bed to him or herlelf to pay to the keeper for chamber-room for the use of bed bedding and iheets, per week If two in a bed and no more, to pay for chamber-room use of bed bedding and Iheets, each per week - - - -

In the fourth or common ward, for entrance and lodging nothing When discharged to the keeper .....

To the tnrnkey on such discharge ....

£ s. D.

O 3 0

O 1 0

O 6 10

O 1 0

O 2 6

O 1 3

O 3 0

0 6 10

0 2 0

0 2 4

0 1 z

0 6 0

0 2 0

0 1 3

0 O 7i

0 0

0 Z 0

PovimT

CourTEIt.

WOOD.

LONDON.

WOOD-STREET COMPTER.

WOOD-STREET

Courm.

KEEPER. Joim Kiriy.

Salary, none. (See Remarks).

Fees, Debtors, £0:15:8.

Felcns, o: 11: 6.

Transports, taken from the Old Bailey by Mr. Akermmr. Licence, Beer and Wine. Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 2 a penny loaf a day: (See Remarks.) now felons Felons, 5 a three halfpenny loaf (weight Aug. 1783, \£ox.)

Garnish, £0: I: 2.

Number, Deton. FefeesJkc. Debtors. Felons Sec.

1774, March i, 91, 3 1779, Aug. 6, S». 45-

1776. 12, 71, 36- Nov. IS. 3«. 11.

— May 10, 69, 3- 1782, Dec. 15. 54. *7-

1777> Jan. 10, 8j, 2f- 1783, Aug. 24, 34, 36.*

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Nafi. Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £30. SURGEON, Mr. mtbey.

Rim,*:. THIS prison, built, as appears by inicription on the front, in 1670, has only a small court or paJTage for all prisoners. Many apartments: yet but two rooms for common-fide debtors: that for men, which is their day-room, night-room, and kitchen, with a copper, &c. is dark and dirty; about 35 feet by 18, and 16 feet high; far too small for the number of prisoners, many of whom sleep in 43 beds which are on three stories of galleries, or broad (helves. At one of my visits there were in this room 39 debtors; seven of them had their wives and children. The room swarms with bugs. The day and night-room for women-debtors is more lightsome: in it were only two prisoners. Beyond it is a room ruinous, and fit for no ufc.

For men-felons there are two rooms; and two for women; one of these is a dark, cell. Two dungeons, one down nfteps, the other adjoining to the tap-room. No bedding or straw. Those who choose a bed pay 1s. a night; or else ior. 6i.

Of the thirty-six felons flee, there were three fines and twenty-four convicti. Twelve of these were fen: from the high-gaol at Extter, Dec. 21, 178a. The convifU have six-pence a day each.

floorage,

SfCT. VII. LONDON.

floorage, and js. 6J. a week. Near those four rooms are twenty-three more for master’s-fide debtors.

In the court is the chapel; and under it the tap-room, down 16 steps. All the rooms aforesaid are within the inner gate; between which and the outer gate (i.e. in the keeper’s house) are more rooms for master’s-ftde debtors. No infirmary. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. The prison is greatly out of repair; the main wall on one fide Ihored and propped.

The keeper pays to the chamber of London £30 a year rent, which is repaid him for his expence on night-charges: he also pays window-tax. I learned from him, that in the beginning of the year 1773 his prisoners were sickly, and eleven died. For some time the governors of the General Dispensary shewed a kind attention to these poor people; and ordered their physician. Dr. Lettfim, to visit them. He was esteemed by the prisoners.

The bread allowance is from' the chamber of London. Debtors (some of whom are from the court of conscience, and lie till their debts are paid*) have from the lherilfs 32 pounds of beef on Saturday. They had formerly from the Peacock brew-house (Messrs. Calvert and Co.) a donation of two barrels of small beer u week. There are many legacies for common-fide debtors, who receive them quarterly. The annual amount is £59: a.: 11. The matter, &c. of the drapers’ company

As [ Hull frequently have orcasion to mention this class of Debtors, who are generally working people with large families, I think it may be proper to give some account of what are called Courts of Confidence.—In 1518, the Common Council of the city of London passed an act for the recovery Of debts under forty shillings due to citizens, by a court to be called a Court of Confeience, held in Guildhall; and the debtors who refused to obey the award of that court, were to be imprisoned in one of the City-Compters until they complied, although it were durante vita. In 1605, the powers of that court were established by act of parliament. In 1750, Alderman Dickension brought in a bill for extending iimilar powers to the whole county of Middlesex; with this difference, that all persons refusing to fubmlt to the decision of the court, were liable to be imprisoned in Newgate for three-calendar months, which cancelled the debt. From these several acts, others have been framed for various parts of the kingdom, in some of which the term of confinement has been limited to forty days, I have collect?d most of these, and find the expenses, fees, &c. to be very different; in some instanecs amounting to three or four times the original debt.

Now, there appears to be a very obvious defect in the police respecting this matter. Why should a man for the fame debt be liable in one place to imprifoiunent for life, in another for three months, in another only for forty days ? Why should the fees, &c. be the fame for discharging a debt of fifteen pence (for such I have known a man imprisoned for), and for thirty.nine (hillings? It is certainly deferable that one eomprehenfive statute for the whole kingdom, on this head, should be framed; wherein a proportion might be established between the sums indebted, and the fees and times of imprisonment. And particular care should be taken, that debtors of this kind be not suffered to mix with criminals, who by their instructions and example frequently render them as abandoned as themselves.

Sec, farther, on this subject, a Report drawn up by the committee of the benevolent Society for the discharge and relief ofpersons confined for small debts.

229

Wood-

street

Compter.

come

LONDON,

230

Wood - iTkEET C'OUPTIE. come here once a year, and relcafc several debtors for small funds, and leave 4OJ. for the remainder, from a bequest of Mr. John Kendrick. I was informed that John Fuller, Elq. left £jo per annum, and appointed the recorder and others in trull, for the payment of fees and chamber-rent of poor debtors confined in the two compters, not exceeding 15/. each, and who had been confined not less than 16 weeks. This legacy, as Mr. Hrrbj told me, has not been paid since 1765. Some years since, there came once a fortnight to common-side debtors in this prison, nine stone of beef, and fourteen quartern loaves: and the like relief to other prisons also. The charitable hand was concealed; till, the donation failing on the death of the amiable princess Caroline, it was supposed that her highness had been the generous benefactress. And upon representing to the lady who had been almoner to the princess, the distress of the prisoners, she obtained from the late king a renewal of the charity; which was continued during his majesty’s life.

% A Ta»u of tbs Fees to be paid by the prifoacri in Wood-street Comftir.

£. S. D. For every debtor that hath a room on the master-Jide. for Kb or her entrance or floorage 050 For his or her rent ptr week provided the keeper find bed, bedding and iheets - 026 If two in ooe room, to pay weekly each of them - - -013 If debtor or debtors provide their own bed bedding. See. to pay for one or two in one room, weekly for the room - - - -013 S , £ I £ S. D. *3 1 Each debtor on his or her discharge - - - 0 8 0 j'jg f If oa the maAcr-iide - - - 0 8 10 For every debtor in the ward called the fifteen penny ward—if the keeper provide bed bedding and one {beet—weekly - - - - 013 f or every debtor on the keeper’s-fide, on his or her entrance there, to pay - 0 to 8 For each room—to pay weekly - - - 0 a 6 All persons in any of the charity wards to pay no entrance, or rent For every prisoner committed for felony, misdemeanour or assault on his or her discharge (except by proclamation at a gaol deliver}*, then nothing) - 0 12 8 For the copy of commitment - - - *> -016

Brioi- WILL. BRIDEWELL.

Rf M UE!, '1'h I s building was formerly a palace, near St. Bridget’s (St. Bride's') well; from whence it had the name; which, after it became a prison, was applied to other prisons of the lame fort.* It was given to the city by king Edward VI. in ijyi. That pan of Bridewell which relates to my subject has wards for men and women cu:;e separare.—The men’s ward on the ground-floor is a day-room in which they

yobnfcm'i Dictionary.

beat

Sect. VII.

i

LONDON.

beat hemp; and, down two Heps, a close night-room. At my late yifits, a staircase was made to a room above, for the convenience of the prisoners. In both this and the night-room, a window has been lately stopt lip. The women’s ward is a day-room on the ground-floor, in which they beat hemp 5 and up stairs, two night-rooms.

A chamber above these is fitted up for an infirmary. The lick were formerly sent to St. Bartholomew’s hospital. All the prisoners being kept within doors, makes it necessary to lime-white the rooms twice a year. The women’s rooms are large, and have opposite windows, for fresh air. Their ward, as well as the men’s, has water: and there is a hand-ventilator on the outside, with a tube to each room of the women’s ward: yet their rooms were offensive. The ventilator would be of service if more frequently worked, when the rooms are crowded with prisoners: there can, however, never be a healthy prison,. where the prisoners are not at times permitted to breathe the fresh air in a court.

The prisoners are employed by a hemp-dresser, who has the profit of their labour, an apartment in the prison, and a salary of £20. I always found them at work: at my last visit they were picking oakum. The hours of work are in winter from eight to four; in summer from fix to- fix, dedlifting meal-times. The steward is allowed eight pence a day for the maintenance of each prisoner; and contrafts to supply them as follows—On Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday, a penny loaf, ten ounces of dressed beef without bone, broth, and three pints of ten shilling beer: on Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, a penny loaf, four ounces of cheese or some butter, a pint of milk-pottage, and three pints of beer. They are served with the day’s allowance about 12 o’clock. The allowance of bread is too small, in Aug. 1783, 8ioz. Oft. 902. The porter or keeper is “Thomas Holt. Salary, £80: no fees. To the women’s ward there is a matron, Sarah Lyon; salary, £60. She takes care of the sick, both men and women j and is allowed a shilling a- day for those that arc put on the sick diet. No bath.

In winter the women have some firing. All the night-rooms are supplied with rye-straw once a month. No other prison in London has any draw or bedding.

In Bridewell is a public chapel: the prisoners should attend every Sunday. The men and women are separated from each other, and from the rest of the congregation.

On the walls of the hall and court-room are hung up many tables of very considerable gifts and legacies to this hospital, in common with others: suficient, to have made this prison more commodious, by providing courts j and several workrooms, and lodging-rooms, for keeping the prisoners more separate, as now is very prudently done for the faulty apprentices and Bridewell boys, who were formerly confined in one room.

The Bridewell boys are upon a quite different foundation, and foreign to-my subject.

Bride-

well.

To

LONDON.

S3*

Will.

To this prison were committed.

In the year 1772, Prisoners 1709. In the year 1778, Prisoners 027.

1773» - - - 777- 779* - - 681.

774. - - - 808. 1780, - - - 459-

775, - - 1084. 1781, ... 484.

1776, - - - 9*3- 1782, - - - 659.

777, - - - 544-

I found there in 1776, March 13, Prisoners 10. 1782, Dec. 18, Prisoners 32.

--- May

--- Dec.

177 9> Aug.

3, - - *4-12, - - - 13.

1783, Aug. 26, - - - 38.

— oa. 31, - - - 41.

New

Pnso5

Cl£*-

witl-

NEW PRISON CLERKENWELL.

GAOLER, James Elmers, now Samuel Newport.

Salary, £30, now 70.

Fees, £0:7:0. (See Remarks.)

Transports, the expence.

Licence, Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, a penny loaf; new 1 lb. of bread a day.

Gamilh, £0: 1: 4.

Number, rdon*te.

774, April 22, 87.

37-83-58.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Richards.

Duty, Sunday twice; Tuesday and Thursday prayers.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Gibhes.

Salary, £60, for this prison and the bridewell: now £100.

Kni.au. THIS prison, built in 1775, is more commodious than the former of the fame name. Over the gate-way are two rooms, called Night-Charges, for prisoners brought in the night, to be examined by a magi (Irate next day. (In one of them are

keeper’s

1776, March y,

-----May 10,

-----Nov. 13,

1779, Aug. 7, -----Nov. 15,

1782, Dec. 17,

1783, Aug. 21,

Felons See,

60.

45-

9-

79-

Debtors 79.

Sect. VII.

LONDON.

*33

keeper’s beds.) From that outer gate you pass on to the gate of the men’s court on the right hand, and of the women’s to the left. To each you descend seven steps. In the men’s court is a large Ihed, which is their day-room. The roof too low for the depth: it has a chimney. Their night-ward, into which they are not permitted to go in the day-time, that the air in it may be cool and fresh, is a house on the other fide of the court, divided into two apartments. Each has a room on the ground-floor, a chamber, and an upper room. In one part, these rooms are 30 feet by 31: in the Other, 30 by 20: near 10 feet high: well planked all over: no chimneys. For the free circulation of air, every room has in front, to the court, two windows; and backwards three, with iron bars, and shutters; but, very properly, no glals. Barrack-beds in every room; but in each of the two chambers, and in one of the lower rooms, are other beds for those who pay 3-f. 6d. a week: when these are occupied, no prisoners sleep on the barrack-beds in those rooms. In this court is a lock-up room for the unruly. All the Hairs are Hone.

On one fide of the women’s court was their day-room, but it is now a lodging-room, and a new day-room, or jbed with a fire-place is made on the other fide of the court. Their night-rooms are—one on the ground-floor ranging with the day-room, and called the Low Ward; at feet by 17, and 10 feet high-—a chamber over it of the fame fize—and a passage or gallery over the day-room: on the back of it are five cabins or cupboards, near 10 feet by 5, with a barrack-bed for two prisoners. These closets are very dole and unwholesome; having no air but from grates over the doors into the gallery. The two larger night-rooms have windows only in front. Iron bars and shutters: no glass. The windows of both the men’s and women’s ward are (as they should be) too high for them to look out.

The ground-floors, and the courts, are paved. There is a pump breach court; and the New-River water is laid in; but not directly from the main, as it was till lately at the neighbouring prison.

The chapel is common to this prison and the bridewell. Men of the two different prisons are on opposite sides below; and women in opposite galleries. The small-nefs of the chapel, the lowness of the deling, the prisoners being in view of each other, and the keepers not attending, are circumstances highly improper.

The tap-house is near the outer gate. Prisoners do not come into it; but take their liquor at a wicket made for that purpose in the wall, that separates it from them. No infirmary: no bedding or straw.

In July 177J, the justices thought fit to raise the gaoler’s fees from js. 6d. to 7s. At my visit in 1782, two prisoners remained only for the fees.

At my first visits, there was both here and at the bridewell, a matron very properly appointed, with a fixed salary.

New

Prison

Clerkenwell.

A generous

LONDON.

234

N iw A generous benefactor (Mr. IViUman, a falefman in Smithfield) constantly fends the

?*iso* prisoners beef and bread twice a week. They have occasionally other small Cleices- , well. donations.

The jints have only the prison allowance.*—The king’s evidence are put with the women in their ward, to secure them from the resentment of the other prisoners.

In December 1782, I found the county debtors were on the men’s fide, f till their apartments in Newgate were rebuilt. The Ihed in the court was enclosed; the wards were glazed and had doves.

In the keeper’s garden there is enclosed a bath and a copper, deligned for this prison and the bridewell, but being incommodious is not uled.

If a small room (or counting-house) were made over one of the keeper’s doorways, he would have a view of the men’s court, and of every person coming into the prison.

In the gate-way is a board on which is painted as follows.

MIDDLESEX.

A TABLE OF FEES

Taken by the Keeper of New Paisas Clekkekwell-

For keeping and discharging every prisoner committed by warrant of commitment - For turning the key at every such pertbn's discharge -

For going with any perfen before a justice -

For a copy of commitment -

Prisoners brought in by constables of the night, and carried before jaEicea of the peace and discharged, to pay two shillings for his of her discharge

£ 0

O 6 Q

OIO

OIO

014 o a o

No spiritnoos liquors allowed to be brought in here.

There Giould be an entire reparation in all prisons of those called Finer, who are committed for a term, from those who are only committed on suspicion either of felony or misdemeanots.

t The county debtors had the allowance of a pound of bread each; the 64/i. of beef every Saturday from the sheriffs, and the donations as mentioned at JWrwja/e.

CLERKEN-

Sect. VII.

LONDON.

*35

CLERK ENWELL BRIDEWELL.

KEEPER, Edward Hall, afterward James Crofter, now John Harwood.

Salary, £jo.

Fees, £0:7:0. (See Remarks.)

Transports, taken from court by Mr. Merman.

Licence, now none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, a penny loaf; now 1 lb. of bread a day.

Garnish, £0:1:4. Number, ;rifonc,. Prisoners.

1774, April 22, 87. "779. Aug. "3*. 171.

1776, March 8, 93. 1782, April 21, 168.

May 10, 113. Dec. "7. "55-

Nov. 13, 136. "783> Jan- 5. 152. (See Remarks.)

1777, Jan. 10, 108. Aug. at. 191.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Richards.

Duty, 7 §ee prism Salary, 5 J

SURGEON, Mr. Gibhes.

Salary, See New Prtfon.

Clerken*

WELL

Bridk-

W£L1.

OVER the gate, two new rooms for night-charges, as at the New Prison. 'In the Remarks. prison, men and women have separate courts and wards. The men have in their court (which iliould be paved with flat Hones), three sheds for day-rooms: one,

6 feet by 16; the other two, 0 by 10 each; full 8 feet high. Their night-rooms opposite on the ground floor, one for fines, and one for other offenders, are about 20 feet by 14 each; with barrack-beds. One of them was so crowded, that some prisoners slept in hammocks. Over these night-rooms are chambers with beds for those who pay 3J. 6d. a week: and another room also for fines: joining to which, is a small close room used as an infirmary for men. In another part of the court is a hemp-shop or; workshop: it is a passage to fix little work-ihops for faulty apprentices; .7 feet by jt each: fronting these are their fix night-rooms (8 by 4); all on the ground-floor.

In the women's court are three lheds or day-rooms; fame size as those of the men; with a hemp-lhop or workshop. Over this, and the men’s workshop, is a long gallery or passage, in which are twelve dark unwholesome night-rooms for women;

H h a 9 feet

LONDON.

aj}6

Cl!1[{,. 9 feet by 7 each, and iof high (in some of them are beds for those who pay): bur

well two of these rooms are now made into one for an infirmary for the women.

Btioi- The keeper pars window-tax; and for the New-River water; which was till' wtn,

very lately directly from the main' and always on. Besides this they have water at a pump in each court.

In July I77J, the justices augmented the fees from js. 6 J. to 7s. but now (1783) in this prison they are reduced to the old sum. In lieu of fees from acquitted prisoners, which were cancelled by the late aft, the justices paid the keeper at the rate of £20 a year from the time when that act took place.—To this bridewell, among criminals, are committed debtors from the court of conscience; who are discharged after forty days.

Of the 108 in January 1777, above thirty were convicts, or fines, that is, criminals committed for a term of years. Some of these, and of the others, were lick. They complained of fore feet, which were quite black. The lick were for the most part women of chc poorest fort; not able to pay for beds. No straw or bedding allowed.—There are in the whole near as many women-prisoners as men.

This prison is much too small for the number committed to it. It might be made convenient, if the adjoining ground let for a workhouse were taken in At my last visits it was clean. Of the 171 prisoners in 1775, 32 men ai,d boys, and j8 women were cemiBs. Thele were employed in picking oakum; the women in two rooms below, the men up stairs.f A warehouse and a Ihed are erected on some ground at the back of this prison.—The convicts formerly were allowed three pence a day, but now have a pound of bread and two pence. The act for preserving the health of prisoners is here, and at the New Prison, on a printed paper.

Of the ijj at my visit in December 1782, 103 were fines; all were unemployed.— At my last vilit, 20 men and 50 women were convicts, and employed in picking oakum.—There were fix debtors from the court of requests.—All the rooms are too dole: no thorough air. In the infirmary for men, January 1783, five were lick and one dying, with little or no covering. In another room one was dead. In the

Tlis lalatary fopply of water In plenty continued tilt fatt year, when the Hern River-Cempanf thought fit to take it off, on laying new pipes towards Marshcttr.c. I cannot bat mention here the Company’s refusal to supply with a small pipe the Penitentiary ben/et, which were proposed to be built on a fine rile in the fields at Illington, near which is one of the mod copious springs of water, which runs to wafie, called the fP'bite-CenJnit. Dr. petbergiU and myself were the more surprised at this rcfofal, as the Company had obliged so many persons to relign, for the public benefit, their gardens, pleafnre grounds, &c. We did not doobt, however, that Parliament would have compelled them to grant so reasonable a request.

f This is a (alntary employment, as the lirong feent of the pitch and Ur may countered! any contagions or unhealthy effluvia in the work-rooms.

women’s

Sect. VII.

LONDON.

m

women’s Tick ward 12 were lying in their clothes on the barrack-bedstead and floor; Clerken-without any bedding. WBLt

Brisk-

well.

Middlesex. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace—holden in and for the County of Middle* sex at Hicks’s Hall—(by adjournment)—13th of July—15th year—of GeOKGE III. &€.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Governor or Matter of the Honfeof

ClEUENWEU,

For keeping and discharging every prisoner committed by warrant

saw reduttd /#

For turning the key at every such prisoner’s discharge.

For a copy of every commitment ...

For going with every prisoner before a justice ..

Prisoners brought in by COnstables of the night and carried before a juttlce

By the Court

Butler.

WHITECHAPEL PRISON,

FOR DEBTO R 5.

This is a prison for the liberties and manors of Stepney and Hackney. The Remarks. former includes, by a printed lift which I have, towns, parishes, villages, streets, lanes, &c. to the number of forty-six j and was granted by king Edward VI. to lord Wentworth, and his heirs for ever.

In it are confined those whose debts are above £2, and under £$~ The master’s-fide prisoners have four sizeable chambers, fronting the road; i. e. two on each story.

They pay 2s. 6d. a week; and lie two in a bed: two beds in a room. The common-fide debtors are in two long rooms in the court, near the tap-room j men in one room, women in the other: the court-yard in common. They hang out a begging-box from a little closet in the front of the house; and attend it in turn. It brings them only a few pence a day 5 and of this pittance none partake but those who at entrance have paid the keeper as. 6d. and treated the prisoners with half a gallon of beer. When I was there in 1777, no more than three had purchased this privilege.

The prison is out of repair. It is the property of the lady of the manor. The keeper, George. Garred, is an officer: he pays rent £24; and window-tax, and all other taxes. He keeps the tap. Fees, £0: 8: 1. No table: but in November 1776, I saw apaper hung up, on which was written as follows:

orreCtfon at

£ s. D.

060

046

OIO O I 4

Whiti-

A Table

238

LONDON.

V*H1T S-CHArit PfcISQ*.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Keeper of this Prison.

S. D.

For the discharge of ever)* person upon any civil action, process or execution - o 8 I

For CTery person who chooses to lie on the maiter-fide, for the first night - -020

For every person who chooses to lie on the mailer-tide after the first night to pay every week o 2 6

George Garred keeper 10th August x776.

At the same time I saw another paper intitled Rules and Orders to be ebjerved in this Prison. It was dated Aug. 6, 1776. The first rule is, “ That every person who comes into this prison as a prisoner, shall pay for his garnish is. 10id."

The clauses of the act again!! spirituous liquors hung up.

At my first visit there were on the common-fide two prisoners in hammocks, sick and very poor.—No chaplain. A companionate man, who was not a regular clergyman, sometimes preached to them on Sunday; and gave them some small relief.

Lady To-jmJbend fends a guinea twice a year, which her servant distributes equally among the prisoners.

As debtors here are generally very poor, I was surprised to fee once ten or twelve noily men at Ikittles; but the turnkey said they were only visitants. I found they were admitted here as at another public houl'e. No prisoners were at play with them.—The court-room is near this prison.

The above was the account at the time of my former visits; but in 1779 I was informed that not a tenth part of the usual business has been transacted here, since the act for extending the provisions of an aS, to prevent frivolous and - vexatious arrefls. 19 Geo. III. Cap. LXX.

In 1782 the prison was in a ruinous condition, yet sometimes here are one or two prisoners.

By an act in 1781; 21 Geo. III. entitled, “ An act for diminishing the fees payable, “ and altering the mode of proceeding, in the court of record within the manors of “ Srcpney and Hackney, &c.” imprisonment is fixed “ for a time noc exceeding one “ week for every pound of the total of the debt and colts.” By this good act no prisoners can be confined here more than five or six weeks. Debtors from the court ef conscience for sums under 40s. are sent to Clerkenwell bridewell.

1-74, April 27, Prisoners -S- 1782, April 10, Prisoners 0.

1776, May 7» “ -3- Dec. '3> - - - O.

Nov. ij, - - - 20. 1783, Aug. 25. - - - O.

1777, Jan. S, - - - -7 Oft. 16, - - - O.

til9, Aug. II, - - - s-

TOWER

Sect. VII.

LONDON.

239

TOWER HAMLETS GAOL,

IN WELL-CLOSE S Q^U ARE.

Tower

Haulets.

This prison is at a public house, kept by an honest Swede, who is gaoler. There Remark*. is a court-room in the house for the Tower Hamlets. The prison-yard was 116 feet by 18, latticed over head. At one end, were two large rooms; in which French prisoners were confined some years ago. The prison-rooms were towards the other end of the court: on the ground-floor a day-room or closet about j|. feet by 3J, with a chimney. Up stairs three night-rooms. Debtors from the court of conscience are sent to Clerkenwell bridewell. Fees, jr. 1 d. Notable. Allowance, from a penny to two pence a day. No straw. At my last visit the prison was almost in ruins.

1774, April 29, Prisoner 1. 1779, Aug. 10, Prisoners o.

1776, March 9, - - - o. 1782, Dec. 13, - - - o.

----- May 17, - - - 1.

St. C A T H A R I N E’s G A O L. St.

Catha-

rine’.!.

This prison, rebuilt about fifteen years ago, is a small house of two stories; two Remarks.

rooms on a floor. In April 1774, there was a keeper, but no prisoners. I have

lince that, called two or three times, and found the house uninhabited: in August

1779, was inhabited, but there were no prisoners. In December 1782 allb there

were no prisoners, and I was informed there had been none since 1779- I" August'

r783 it was uninhabited.

THE

24

WESTMINSTER.

Savoy.

RlMAttS.

THE SAVOY.

Th i s prison for the military, has two rooms called the Guard-roomt; bccauic in them are confined offenders who are of the king’s guards. The remainder of the building over the gate is the keeper’s house. On the opposite fide of the court, is a large room down five steps, the Hall. On the left-hand fide of the court is another hall, not so large: at each end of it is a room with barrack-bedsteads and beds; both rooms very dole and unhealthy. Over them are other barrack-rooms, somewhat more airy. N°. i, 2, and 4, and the room over N°. 1, and the lodging-room called the Store-room adjoining to the guard-rooms, are of good size: and the practice of lime-whiting adopted here since my first visits, is salutary for the prisoners. There arc, besides, the Hack bole, the condemn'd bold, the cock pit, and several other parts of this irregular building, which I pals over.

March ry, 1776, there were 119 prisoners; of whom 49 were transports. I saw many sick and dying. The gaol was so infected by them, that the distemper was caught there by many afterwards.

May 25, Prisoners 37. Many of them lick of the gaol-distemper, in the rooms where I saw the sick and dying in March. The whole was out of repair. Keeper, Capt. ’Jackson: salary, £§o. Allowance, four pence a day, in provisions.

1779, Aug. 13, Prisoners 98, viz.

64 Deserters, 21 Imprefied men, and 13 of the Guards.

The prisoners were in health; the rooms made somewhat more airy, and three rooms over the hall were fitted up for an infirmary.

1782, Dec. 20. Prisoners 92.

The prison was not dirty, nor the rooms offensive except in the infirmary. Three of the guards were in dose confinement on bread and water for 48 hours.—One was sick in the prison, and 12 in two of the dole rooms of the infirmary; in the other room, one of the transports left here lay dead. Keeper, Capt. OJbome.

1783, Aug. 29, Prisoners j6.

Fourteen were of the guards, of whom to were in the black bole on bread and water for 24 or 48 hours. Some of the prisoners, having received his majesty’s pardon on condition of inlisting, and afterwards deserted, had been here from 7 to 16 months.—The rooms were very clean; they are lime-whited twice a year, and they are washed every day, the prisoners being turned out of them early in the morning.— There had been none sick in the hospital for two months.

TOTH1LL*

Sict. VII,

WESTMINSTER.

241

TOTHIL L-F IELDS BRIDEWELL.

KEEPER, George Smith

Salary, £s°> paying the widow of the former keeper £20. Fees, £0: j: 2.

Transports, taken by Mr. Merman.

Licence, Beer and Wine. Tap let. Now no licence.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, a penny loaf (weight Dec. 1782, 8±oz. 08. 1783, y~oz.) and a penny a day each.

Garnish, ,£0: 1 Number,: 4. Prisoners. Prisoners.

1774, April 22, 38- 1779, Aug. j, 74. Impressed Men 10.

1775, March 4, XO9. 1782, Dec. 18, 72.

1776, 6, 86. 1783, Aug. 20, 89.

May 3, 7 5- 22, 92.

1777, Jan. 8, 110. Oct. 29, 52-

CHAPLAIN, none. SURGEON, Mr. Glover, now Mr. fhomes Purdue.

Salary, none. He makes a bill.

Tot HILL-FIELDS

Bride.

well.

OVER the gate is this inscription, “ Here are several forts of work for the poor Remah:, “ of this parish of St. Margaret’s Westminster, as also the county according to law,

“ and for such as will beg and live idle in this city and liberty of Westminster.

“ Anno 16<5.”

This prison has—for men, two day-rooms and three night-rooms—For faulty apprentices, five rooms, 10 feet by 7 feet 2 inches; the upper and lower pannels of the doors are iron latticed. For women, a day-room, and four night-rooms. All the night-rooms have barrack-beds. They are constantly washed every day; and are quite fresh. The prisoners walh their hands and faces every morning before they come for their allowance. No straw. No infirmary. A little room used as a Hirgery. A chapel, in which Mr. Smith reads a chapter, and part of the Common Prayer-book every morning.

The women should have another day-room: and one of the day-rooms for men should be enlarged. The courts adjacent might also be enlarged.—The rooms for women, and their court, are now more airy, the garden-pales being set farther off.

The keeper pays window-tax, and for water. Over the gate is a paper with this

I i inscription:

WESTMINSTER.

Tothul- inscription: “No j>erfon admitted into this prison on a Sunday, after nine o’clock riE'-ni in the morning until five in the evening.”

b«ioe- At my visit in 1777, there were among the felons, two debtors from the court of confidence; in 1779, three; and in 1783, fix.—I always found this prison very clean; and the prisoners calm and placid. There is now a work-lhop with hemp-blocks, and a room over it. Two of the women’s night-rooms are appropriated to female convicts, who have allb a frparate court with water, See. As I have seen several sick objects on the Boors, the gentlemen, who are so ready to relieve the sufferings of their fellow-creatures, will forgive the intimation that an infirmary might be made over the women’s ward.

Fees allowed for the Governor of Tothill-pields Bridewell, as by Order of Court

January Sessions 1772.

For commitment and discharge of a prisoner by warrant For the turnkey ..

Copy of commitment ..

Fcr a night’s charge -

£. S. D. 0 4-2 o 1 o o 1 4

o 1 o

Signed in open court

by

Jamss Fielding George S. Bradshaw George Jtied Aaron Lamb.

Gate. WESTMINSTER G A T E-H O U S E.

HOCSS.

Ieuaxc:. ’This prison, the property of the Dean and Chapter, was over two gate-ways; bur being in a very ruinous condition, has been taken down: and another is erected in Tothill-fields, joining to the bridewell, but was not inhabited, Aug. $, 1779: and at my visit Aug. 21, 17S3, there had been no prisoners. There will be a reparation of debtors and felons; and in the court of the latter are four small rooms for the refractory. Both debtors and felons, though not seen by or.e another, will be in view from the pulpit, and there the keeper can easily observe them when they are locked up. The courts will be plentifully supplied with water, by pipes from the main. The outer walls are too low, so that tools &c. may be easily conveyed over.—To make this a secure prison, a surrounding wall (as at Hertford gaol) mult be built.

THE

Sect. VII.

SOUTHWARK.

44 3

THE KING’S BENCH PRISON,

FOR DEBTORS.

MARSHAL, Thomas Thomas, Esq.

Deputy Marshal, Mr. Marfon, afterward Mr. Jordan, now Mr. Hi!!. Salary

Fees, See Table.

Licence, Beer and Wine. Tap let. (See Remarks.) PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0:2:0.

Number, intheHoofe. In the Rules. In the House. In the Rulei

1774, April 26, 324, - 100. 1779* 0<a:- 26> 4J8j 60.

1776, Jan. 28, 364, - 80, 1782, Jan. 2, 450, 7

1779, Aug. 11, jii, - 75- 1783> Aug- 23> 53~> - jo-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Evans.

Duty, Sunday once; the sacrament once a month.

Salary, £0: 4: o on every commitment.

SURGEON, none.

THIS prison was part old buildings, part new.

The old buildings were—a coffee-room just within the gate—and a street called King-street. On the right hand was the tap-house; and four houses for prisoners: each confided of a ground-floor, and two floors of chambers; four rooms on each floor; near 10 feet square, and 7 high. On the left-hand fide of the street was the chapel; and fix houses for prisoners; of equal depth with the former houses: but the back-rooms had not, as the former had, communication with the fore-rooms. At the hither end of the fore-rooms, on the ground-floor, was a common kitchen, much too small. The cook, a prisoner, had the room over it. These houses also had ground-rooms, and two floors of chambers. All the rooms fronting King-street, and the whole of the houses on the other fide the way, were for master’s-fide debtors; who paid for each room unfurnished a shilling a week. The back-part of the left-hand row was the common-lide; the doors in the back-front. The first room on the ground-floor they called their court-room. The two houses at the farther end had

I i a fix

Kiwc'i

BekciI.

Remark*-

i+4

K.iXG'3

Bench.

SOUTHWARK.

fix rooms each, for crown-debtors and fines; and were called Crown-court. The rest of this range on all the three floors was for common-fide debtors. At the farther end of King-street, in a small court enclosed from the rest of the yard, was a building called the State-house; consisting of ground-floors, and two floors of chambers; four sizeable rooms on each floor; total twelve. A debtor who chose to be here, paid the marshal from eight to ten guineas for his whole time; besides a shilling a week, like other master’s-lide debtors.

All these old buildings were out of repair.

The new buildings were—firft, a house at the gate for the turnkey. The chambers were very convenient; and were let to a prisoner who paid a very high rent.—-But the principal new building was at the farther end of the yard. The two parts of it formed a right angle. One part was four houses, with four ground-rooms to each; and the fame number of chambers on each of the three floors above: total sixty-four. The rooms were about 13 feet by 11, and about S feet high. The other part (the wing) was built as the Fleet prison; but more airy and commodious. It had the lame number of floors as the first part. On each floor was a passage 74 feet wide, and 73.1 long: rooms on each fide the pillage, eleven on each floor, total forty-four; each room 13 ! feet by 9 about 8 feet high.

The prison is well supplied with water. Among the improvements, of 108 new rooms, and a spacious court, they should have built an infirmary. At more than one of my vifitj (which I repeated to this as well as many other prisons much oftener than the times when I took the numbers) some had the small-pox. It was (o crowded the summer 1776, that a prisoner paid five shillings a week for half a bed, and many lay in the chapel. In May 1776, the number of prisoners within the walls was 395; and by an accurate lift which I procured, their wives (including a few that were only called lb) were 279, children 725, total 1004; about two thirds of thele were in the prison.

The above was the state of the prison in 1776; but afterwards some of the old buildings were taken down, and a chapel and many rooms added to the new buildings, and another wing similar to that which has been already mentioned, but no infirmary.—This spacious prison is enclosed with a strong wall about thirty feet high, with a clr-eux de frije.

The Rules, or bounds of this prison are extensive, including St. George’s Fields, one fide of Blackman-rtrect, and part of the Borough High-streec, of which a plan is published.

This prison is visited at Michaelmas term, as the act directs;* yet at my first visits there was a wine-club, and a beer-club; and one could scarcely ever enter the walls

ithout seeing parties a: (kittles, miflifippi, portobello, tennis, fives, &c.

5*4 Gtergt II.

The

Sect. VII.

SOUTHWARK.

*45

The above was the account of the prison before it was burnt by the rioters in 1780: and now if is rebuilt on the plan of the former new buildings. No infirmary. Many good regulations are introduced) and a flop is put in a great measure to gaming and the illicit practice of selling spirituous liquors and smuggled goods.

The tables of rules and orders for the government of this prison are hung up (as required by the preamble) for common inspection. I presume to give an abridgment of them.

Rules and Orders for the better Government, &C. Made and Signed the 25th of November 1729.

1. The ilocks to be kept up for punirhmcnc of blasphemers, swearers, riotous, &c.

2. Against illegal methods of confinement. None to be confined in an unusual place or manner, unless

for attempting to escape. And such may appeal to the court, or a judge.

3. Marshal not to remove any to the Fleet by writ of habeas corpus.

4. Marshal not to remove any one from the common-fide and its benefits without three days notice:

during which time, the prisoner may appeal to a judge.

5. Coroner’s inquest upon the dead.

6. Againll garnish and partial distribution of dividends.

7. Prisoners to send out for necessaries; and to bring in their own bedding, &c.

8. Table of fees, these rules, and a list of charities to be hung up in a public rOOni.

9. Marshal and servants to behave with the utmost tenderness.

10. Turnkey always to attend at the door.

11. No servants to partake of, or even distribute the charity,

12. Chapel to be kept in repair. Chaplain duly to perform.

13. The ubufive to the flocks.

14. Dining-room to be kept in repair for devotion, or convention: with a fire. Two rooms for

the sick,

15. Those who make oath before &c. that they have not £$ Sec. to be admitted to the charities,

offices in the prison, &c.

16. No.person committed for any criminal matter to vote for lleward, &c. or to partake of any charity

bat the baskets.

17. Lodging in the cabin of any ward, gratis.

18. Any prisoner may be chosen affiliant, and enjoy the benefits of that station.

19. The seal of the common-fide to be kept by the master of Ring's Bench office; and not pat to any

deed without the approbation of marshal, Reward, and affiltants.

20. One superfedable action may be superfeded with common-Tide money: more than one, not without

application to the court, or a judge. No judge's clerk to take a fee on the occasion. z t. The sick to be taken care of by the lleward and affiflaim: who are to be reimbursed out of the first county-money.

zz. Debts contracted by the Reward and affiAants with the marihal's and mailer's content, for support of the poor, to be paid out of the next dividend.

23. Steward and assistants to have no pay for common business, or adjuAing differences.

24. Prisoners entered after the iA day of Easter-term, to have but one quarter of the Midlommcr

dividend.

25. All money brought in by the bafltet-men, or brought in at Christmas, Easter and Whitfuiuide, to

be divided immediately after paying the basket-men for their trouble.

26. If

King's

Bench.

SOUTHWARK.

246

King’s

Besc

26. If the marihal advance money for a fwpnfuU*s> he is to be reimbursed oat of the next county-money. 37. Common-fide prisoners may elect an annual steward; who is not to be deposed, bnt on application to the coart cr a judge. No prisoner in the roles may vote.

2S. The steward to enter in books the table of fees, these icles, and a Iif of the charities. All, together with his accounts, for inspection of the prtfoners.

29. A prisoner wronged by the steward and assistants, on applying to the coart or a judge, shall be paid

his damages oat of the next dividend of the steward and assistants: if he complain uojuftly, he shall make satisfaction from his own next dividend.

30. If the steward or assistants embezzle the money, successors may call them to account, and hop their

dividends of the grate-money. Sec. for reparation of the injury.

31. These orders to be read publicly every third Monday.

33. Mariha!, iervants. and prifooers to obierve these rules under pain of the utmost punishment of law. 33. No clerk or servant of a judge to take any fee on occasion of a petition founded on these orders.

R. Raymond Ja. Reynolds E. Probyn.

The preceding rules fill one fide of a large iheet of paper, on which they are printed. Another iheet has what follows, 0/2.

Further Roles and Ohdees for the Government, kc. Made and Signed the 10th Day of May 1759.

1 No, person to bring any weapon.

2. Thole on the maker’s-fide who demand garnish, to be turned to common-fide for a time, not longer

than a month. Those on the common-fide are for the like offence to be excluded, not longer than a fortnight, from all profits except share of the baficcts.

3. Doors of the great garden to be {hut at dark: doors of the wards at nine.

4 The chambers at disposal of the marihal. Sec.

5. if a master-fide prisoner neglect for a month to pay his chamber-rent; he may be turned over

to the common-fide till he pays. His goods to be delivered to him, by a witnessed inventory. If discharged by the plaintiff,-he may yet be detained for fees, and a month’s chamber-rent.

6. None to fell in the prison viduals or drink withoat consent of marihal. A prisoner thus offending

may be turned over to the common-tide for a month. Marshal to take care that those who Tell do keep good order. Sec.

Confirms the 14th rule preceding, i. e. That is the great room for exercise and the two rooms for the sick.

3. Prisoners turned to common-fide for offending, or non-payment, to have no profit but share of the bilkets; to bear no office; nor vote for officers.

9. These rules to be fixed in the most public places, for inspection.

Sig" td,

Mansfield, T. Dennison, M. Forster, E, Wilmot.

A further Ryle and Order, Sec. made 19th May 1760.

Those who attempt or assist an escape—who fell or promote the laic of victuals or liquors without icate of the marihal—who assault another—who blasphemc the name of God, swear or make a riot, may be lent by the marihal to any one of the following prisons in Southwark, v:z. the county gaol for

Surry,

Sect. VII.

SOUTHWARK.

247

Sutry, the bridewell for that county, or to the Marshalsea: and there confined for the first offence not exceeding one month; for a second offence not exceeding three months. This rule to be bung up.

Signed,

Mansfield, T. Dennison, M. Forster, E. Wilmot.

On the fame sheet is

A Tab-le of Fees to be taken by the Marshal of the King’s Bench Prison, in the County of Surry, for any Prisoner or Prisoners Commitment, or coming in Gaol, or Chamber>Rent there, or Discharge from thence in any Civil Action. Settled and established the 16th Day of June in the 33d Year of the Reign of his Majesty King George the Second, and in the Year of our Lord 1760, pursuant to an Act for the Relief of Debtors with respeS to the imprisonment of their Persons, viz.

To the marshal for every prisoner committed on any civil action To the turnkey on the master’s-fide ..

To the marshal on the discharge of every such prisoner

To the deputy marshal upon the discharge of one or more actions, executions, or other charge, and no further fee though there be never so many actions To the clerk of the papers for the first aQion upon the discharge To the clerk of the papers for every action, execution, or other charge to be paid on the discharge ..

To the deputy marshal upon a commitment of a prisoner in court, or at a judge’s chambers, on any civil action, if carried to the King's Bench prison To ihc clerk of the papers for the fame -

To the said deputy marshal for a surrender in discharge of bail, be there never so many actions

To the clerk of the papers for each altion upon such surrender To each of the four tipstaffs, 2/. 6d. for each prtfoner’s commitment by the court, and carried to the King's Bench prison, in the whole To the tipstaff that carries any prisoner committed at a judge’s chambers to the said prison ...

To the marshal for the use of chamber, bed, bedding and theets for each prisoner, if provided by the gaoler at the prisoner’s request, for the first night, in the common-fide of the said prison - For the like use every night the prisoner remains in custody after the first AnJ if two lie in one bed, id. each -

For the like use. of every prisoner that goes on the master’s-fide, for the first night For the like use every night after the first And if two lie in a bed, 2d. each

And if the prisoner finds his own bed, bedding and sheets (which the marshal is in no fort to hinder him of) then he (halt pay for chamber-rent to the maifhal, per week - -

No ether fee for the use of chamber, bed, bedding and facts, cr i*pcn the commitment or discharge of any prisoner on any civil attion.

Thomas Howard,

Anthony Thomas Abdy, ry Parker

lfrdliam Hammond.

First.

2d.

3d*

4th.

5th.

6th.

8th.

9th.

10th.

nth.

12th.

13th.

1 Ath.

15th. 16th. 17th. 1 Sth, 19th.

£ $. D.

O 4 8

O I 6

O 7 4

O 4 0

O \ 3 o-

O 0 4

O 1 0

O 1 0

O 1 O

0 0 6

0 s to 0

0 e 6 0

0 0 6

0 0

0 0 2

0 0 6

0 0 3

0 n 1 0 4

0 I O

i'charge of any

Mansfifld,

King's

Bench.

Two

SOUTHWARK.

Rixg’i

Bitch.

Three excellent rules have been lately hung up.

Monday next after three weeks from the day of the Holy Trinity in the 19th Year of KingGsotci the Third.

King's Bench Prison. Upon fall and mature confederation had here in court. It is ordered by the said court, that any man may lawfully be turned oat of his chamber for the following causes (that is to say) If such perfoo lets his chamber to another, or does not reside there himself, or if such person might hare taken the benefit of say infohrent act or the lord’s aft; or if he be charged by a friendly or toll afire action where there is no real debt.

By the Court.

Friday next after fifteen days from the day of the Holy Trinity in the 19th Year of King Georce the Third.

K*'* Bench Prison. It is ordered that all prisoners who hare been or shall be in the custody of the aaribal of the Marshalsea for the space of six months after they are superfedeable although not super-feded shall be forthwith discharged out of the prison of the marihal of the Marftialfca by the said marihal as to-all such actions in which they have been or shall be superfedeable. And that no prisoner Hull be intitled to any room in the said prison by reason of Seniority except from the time of his beinij charged in the actions in which he is not fnperfedeable.

By the Coart.

Wednesday nest after three weeks from the day of the Holy Trinity, in the zift Year of Ciflg GeomcE the Third.

King's Bench Prison. It is ordered by this court, that the marihal of the Maiftialfea of this court lhaM permit no persons to enter into the prison without their being first searched, to fee whether they have any spirituons liquors about them: and that he do not suffer the wives or children of any of the prisoners to lodge in the.prison, under any pretence whatsoever; and that the marihal do prescribe in what manner, and for how long time, viators shall be allowed to fee or fiay with the prisoners, according to the circnmstances of every case in his discretion.

By the Court.

There were, beCides, in this prison, as in the Fleet, certain printed rules made by the prisoners themselves, “ to be obeyed and observed by every member of Ibis

O.iisge” (as they were pleased to term it). Many of them were arbitrary and improper: but now they are abolifced.

1 procured a list of gifts and donations now* belonging to the prisoners on the common Jiii of the King’s Bench prison, which is as follows:

£ s. D.

C:ur.:y mcncy f paid quarterly by the clerk to the Chief Justice of the court of King’s

ilea h at fifteen pounds per quarter . . - 60 o

There teas a brass plate, on a lionc in the svall of the old prison, fixed there by order of a donor: lame braefaftion; as he though: it might perpetuate his gift.

1 By the 43d EIzz. Chap. II. Se&. 15.

The

Sect. VII.

SOUTHWARK.

249

The gift of Sir Thomas Gre/hom paid by the Chamberlain of London at two pounds ten JhilUngs per quarter Lady Bertie at Lady-day yearly (deducting land-tax) -

Mr. John March one pound, and the interest of old South Sea annuities twelve and five pence, paid at Michaelmas yearly by the mercers company Mrs. Smith paid at Christmas yearly by the fishmongers company Mrs. Joan Hackttt paid ditto by ditto ..... Arthur Mouse, Esq. paid ditto by ditto -

The parish of St. Sepulchre London yearly at Christmas ..

The gift of Sir John Peachy* paid at Christmas yearly by the grocers company Mr. Garretty paid at Christmas yearly by the falters company

Mr. Horne, paid at ditto by ditto ....

Robert Rampfieu, Esq. called brass money paid yearly at Christmas (deducting land-tax) Lady OJbernty payable quarterly at ten shillings per quarter ... Lady Ramsay, one hundred pounds weight of beef sent yearly at Christmas by the parishes of AllbaUows Lombard-street and Si. Andrew Underjbaft alternately.

Mrs. Margaret Deane nine stone and an half of good beef and five dozen of bread sent yearly on 5th of November by the ironmongers company.

M rs. Margaret Sindear sixty-five penny loaves sent every fight weeks.

The Icatherfellers company in bread two shillings and eight pence, and cacti sometimes four fhiUxngs, sometimes eight shillings quarterly.

The parish of St. Dunstan in the East a fore quarter of beef weight twenty-seven stone six pounds and a peck of oatmeal annually at Midsummer.

The company of parish clerks annually on the irt of November

The company of drapers sixty penny loaves annually in December

The company of cutlers annually in December the gift of Mr. Craytborne

The gift of Tho. Daw/bn, Esq. paid annually by the parish of St. Lthelburg London

His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury ufoally gives at Christmas

The fadlers company a fiee donation of two shillings and six pence per quarter

The city of Norwieh annually ....

£ s. D.

10 0 0

2 0 0

I 12 5

O 3 4

O >3 4

O 3 4

O 10 0

O 5 0

O 6 S

0 5 0

I 0 0

2 0 0

1 1 o

050

o 15 o

090 100

0 10 o

1 I o

Kiko’s

Bskch.

K k

MARSHALSEA

SOUTHWARK.

MARSHALSEA PRISON.

MitsHAL- DEPUTY MARSHAL, Thomas Marfan, Esq. now deceased.

SEA.

Substitute, Thomas Phillips, afterwards William Williams, now J. Evans. Salary

Fees, £o: io: io.

Licence, Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none. Gamilh, £0:1:4.. It is called ward-dues for coals, &c.

Number, Prisonen. Prisoner*.

177+, March 16, 167. 1779, Aug. 10, 92.

- 6> >75- 1782, Jan. 2, 48.

1776. 12, >94- Dec. 19, 49-

May 15, *34- 1783, Aug. 23, 71-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Cockare.

Duty, every other Sunday.

Salary, i s. from each prisoner on discharge. See Table of Fees.

SURGEONS, Messrs. Stapleton and Waljhman.

Salary, i s. from each prisoner on discharge. See Table of Fees.

R:«a*is. XO thisprisonof the Court of the Marshalsea, and of the King’s Palace-Court of Westminster, are brought debtors arrested for the lowest sums, any where within twelve miles of the palace, except in the city of London: and also persons corn-mined for piracy.

The deputy marshal, under whole particular custody this prison is, has his appointment from the knight marshal of the king’s household for the time being. The great abuses practised by this officer were reported to parliament by the Gaol-Committee in 1729.

This prison is held under several leases by the widow of the late deputy marshal at the yearly rent of £101. It is an old irregular building (rather several buildings) in a spacious court. There are, in the whole, near sixty rooms; and yet only fix of them left for common-fide debtors. Of the other rooms,—five were let to a man who was not a prisoner: in one of them he kept a chandler’s (hop; in two he lived with his family: the other two he let to prisoners. Four rooms, the Oaks, weie for women. They were too few for the number; and the more model! women complained of the bad company, in which they were confined. There were above

forty

Sect. VII.

SOUTHWARK.

forty rooms for men on the master’s-fide, in which were about sixty beds; yet at my first visits, many prisoners had no beds nor any place to sleep in, but the chapel, and the tap-room. The chamber-rent wants regulation; for in several rooms where four lie in two beds, and in iome dark rooms where two lie in one bed, each pays 32. 6d. a week for his lodging.

The prison is greatly out of repair. No infirmary. The court is well supplied with water. In it the prisoners play at rackets, &c. and in a little back court, the Park, at Ikittles.

The tap was let to a prisoner in the rules of the King's Bench prison; this prison being just within those rules. I was credibly informed, that one Sunday in the summer 1773, about 600 pots of beer were brought in from a public house in the neighbourhood (Ashmore'%) the prisoners not then liking the tapster's beer.

In March 177J, when the number of prisoners was 173, there were with them in this incommodious prison wives and children 46.

Since the act of the 19th of Geo. III. Chap. LXX. there are not so many debtors in this prison as formerly; yet they are increasing, for I find here, and in other prisons, many debtors whose original debts are much under £10. but for the purpose of imprisoning such debtors, they are prosecuted either in the court of exchequer, or in other inferior courts, until the expences of such prosecutions which added to the original debt amount to ^10. A frefii action is then taken out in the superior courts, for the small original debt, and the accumulated costs of prosecution.—Thus the salutary purposes of the said act are defeated.*

Mr. Henry Jllnott, who was many years since a prisoner here, had, during his confinement, a large estate bequeathed to him. He learned sympathy by his sufferings; and left £100 a year for discharging poor debtors from hence, whose debts do not exceed ^4. As he bound his manor of Goring in Oxfordshire for charitable uses, this is called the Oxford charity. Many are cleared by it every year.

I procured a list of the legacies and donations which are regularly paid, but no table was hung up.

A Lill of Charities belonging to the Common Side of the Marshalfia Prison.

County Money £ 11 fir Quarter.«-(By the 43d Eliz. Chap. II. Se&. 15.)

I.eathcrfellers company, bread and money quarterly, 6s. 8d.

In the Report from the (aforesaid) Committee appointed to inquire into the date of the gaols. May t4, 1729, on the Marshalsea prison, are these words, Many prisoners are so poor as to be committed for a debt of one dulling only; for by the usage of the said court of record, pro cedes are “ issued for the fmalled sums; and tho* the cause of action is but one penny, a process is idued, " the process is returned, and the proceedings are carry’d on, till such time as the costs amount to “ above 402. and thereupon the debtor is thrown into prison, and by adding the costs to the debt

the late act of parliament against frivolous and vexatious arrests is eluded. ”

K. k 2

Ijt

Marshalsea.

Sir

Marshalsea.

SOUTHWARK.

Sir Tbemas Grefoam's legacy, £10 per ansa, paid quarterly by the chamberlain of London.

Drapers company the legacy of Mr. Jehu Suits, sixty penny loaves on the 5th of December.

The gift of the late Chief Baron Smyth, fifteen done of beef at Christmas, and continued by Lady Smyth. Mr. Jdm Marts's annuity, the interest of £zi: 18: 10, South Sea dock.

Mr. Ralph Carter's legacy, ninety-six pouods cf beef at Christmas: paid one year by the church-wardens of ABbalfexs, and the other by St. Andrews Underjbaft.

Ironmongers company fend nine done and two pounds of beef, and five dozen of bread on the 5th of November, the anneal gift of Mrs. Deans, deceased.

Mr. Job* Crajthonu's legacy, 15s. paid by the company of cutlers at Christmas.

Mr. Thomas Danr/on's legacy, 9s. paid by the church-wardens of St. Etbelburg, Bijbcpfgate, at Christmas. Mr. Robert Ramffoem's legacy, sos. at Christmas.

Arcnbishop of Canterbury fends yearly at Christmas^1.

Mr. fends a chaldron of coals yearly at Christmas.

Mrs. Smith's legacy, 5$. ^d. paid by the fishmongers company yearly at Christmas.

Salters company fend yearly 6s. Sd.

Mr. Thzrtas Carter's legacy, a quarter of beef and a peck of oatmeal at Lady-day, paid by the churchwardens of St. Dttcjran'i in the East.

EUaxsr G=a-fas’s legacy, sixty.fcve penny loaves every two months.

William Refer, Esqr’s legacy, £1 per annum, paid by the company of pariftt clerks.

Mr. Jonhs'* legacy, £2 at Eajier, paid at the Grainge inn, Lisudn's lam back-gate, left In 1609.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of the Marshalsea Prison—on any Civil Action—fottled—the 17th Day of May 1765 Purfoant to an Act for Relief of Debtors, Sec.

£. S. D.

To the knight mar&al upon the discharge of every prisoner charged with one or more actions 018 To the keeper for his care and safe custody of every prisoner upon the discharge of such

prisoner on the first action - - - -048

To the keeper upon the discharge of such prisoner charged with one or more actions after

the first - 038

To the forgeon or apothecary oa the discharge of every prisoner charged with one or

more actions - . - - - o 1 0

To the chaplain on the* like discharge - - - - .010

To the turnkey upon the discharge of every pufoner on the first action - -016

To the turnkey upon the discharge of such prisoner charged with one or more actions

after the first - _ - - - - -010

To the clerk for entering the discharge of a pi ifoner on one or mere actions - 010

To the keeper for the use of bed, bedding and sheets for every prisoner if foond by the

gaoler at the prisoner’s request, for the first night 00 the master’s-fide of the said prison 006 And even* night after the first night - - - 003

And if two lie in a bed 2 d. each - - . - - -004

Kg ttber fee for tot nje of chamber, bed, btsldiing, er upsn the discharge or commitment ef any prisoner on

may am/ action.

iy. Ricbardjsn

Eihst Bijbof Lecri* Howard.

Mansfield C. Pratt T. Parker.

BOROUGH

Sect. VII.

SOUTHWARK.

*53

BOROUGH COMPTER.

GAOLER, Jeremiah Bevis.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0:7:0.

Felons, o: 11: 4.

T ranfports, - o: 10: 6 from the contractor.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 7 a penny loaf a day each (weight in Jug. 1779, * Felons, 5 in Dec. 1782, 8oz. Jug. 1783, gioz.J See Remarks.

Garnish, £0:2:8 master’s-fide.

0:1:4 common-fide.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. FeloDs k o*

1774, May 4, 37. - 4- 77 9> Aug. 10, 16, - 2.

1776» March 11, 10, - 3. 1782, Jan. 2, >4, - 4-

May 2, 00 1 Dec. 1 j, >5. - 3-

Nov. 13, 15, - 1. --4 CO Aug. 2j, 25. - 2.

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, none.

THIS prison, in Tooley-street, for the borough of Southwark, which contains four parishes and a part of a fifth, had in 1779, for niafter’s-fide debtors, seven rooms—for common-fide debtors, a room on the ground-floor, in which felons &c. were with them night and day; a long room up stairs, the Rookery-, and a room over it, useless, because not secure.—The women were in the stone kitchen, then divided into two rooms. Three of the common-fide rooms had barrack-beds. Most of the debtors are poor creatures from the court of confidence, who lie there till their debts are paid.*—There was a small court; and a chapel, but no chaplain appointed.

The whole prison was much out of repair, and ruinous. No infirmary. No bedding or straw. The keeper is put in by the high bailiff, whole office is in the disposal of the court of aldermen.—An inscription over the gate, dated 1716, called it the Borough Court: but the courts arc held at St. Margaret’s Hill.

This prison might have been made more commodious, by building on a piece of ground, at the back of it, 41 feet by 20, which the keeper used as a garden.

The Society for relief of persons imprisoned for small debit, release many debtors from this prison.

This

Borough

Compter.

Remarks.

SOUTHWARK.

a54

Borough

CoUf T£t.

This gaol was pulled down by the rioters in 1780, and the present prison is an adjoining house hired by the keeper. The court only 14^ feet by 11. A day-room below (17 feet by 12), stone-floor. The men’s lodging-room (16 feet by 14) on the second floor, in which at my lait visit there were 17, and sometimes there have been two or three and twenty. The women lodge in the common day-room. No bedding. Here are three or four rooms for those that pay. Debtors have 65 penny loaves once in eight weeks, from a legacy of Eleanor Gvoinn. No memorial hung up, no table of fees, nor clauses against spirituous liquors. Debtors here, (as in the county gaol. King’s Bench, the Fleet and Marjhaffea) have a gift every Christmas of 2Q1. from the Archbishop of Canterbury.

This table was in the old gaol.

Semb^cark. At the General Quarter Sefixons of the Peace of our Sovereign Lord the King holden for the Town and Borough of Southwark at the Court-House on St. Margaret's //*//—on Friday the 8th day of January in the 21ft Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George the Second before Sir Robert Leibnkt Ka*. Mayor—Jehu Stratey Esqr. Recorder—and others* &c. &c.

It being represented to this court that the fees of the gaoler or keeper of the Borough Compter in regard to the prisoners charged therein with any criminal Matter remain yet onfettled* for want whereof divers impositions may accrue to the poor prisoners therein.

For settling and efiabli filing the fame It is ordered that the keeper or gaoler of the said prison Dial! and may take of every prisoner so charged as aforesaid the following fees and oo more.

That is to say

£. S. D.

For the admi£on of every prisoner for felony trespafs afiault 01 other misdemeanours on 4

Fot every night's lodging - - - 006

To the turnkey for the difmi£on of every such prisoner - - -010

For every prisoner brought by a peace officer for safe custody untill hearing can be

had before a magistrate - - - - >020

By the Court

Man.

N. B. Two other prisons in Southwark, wz. the New Gaol in the Borough, and rhe Bridewell in St. George’s Fields, belong to the county of Surrey.

COUNTY

Home Circuit.

HERTFORDSHIRE.

*SS

COUNTY GAOL at HERTFORD.

GAOLER, Cornelius IVtlJon.

Salary, £39: 6: 10, now £100, to supply the felons with bread, as below. Fees, Debtors, 7 . ,

Felons, 5° 15 ' 4‘

Transports, £1: 1: o each to London.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, 1 lb. of bread a day.

Garnish, £0:4:6.

Number, Debtor*. Felon* &c. Debtors. Felon* Jkc.

1773, Dec. 9, 3> *9* 1779, Sep. 27, I, 17. Desert'. r,

1774. »4. 2. 14. 1782, April 9, 10, 9-

1776, Feb. 14, 16, 16. 1783, oa. 23, 9* 21.

Nov. 22, 6, 12.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Scot/, now Rev. Mr Moore. Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Cutler.

Salary, £10, now 20.

Hert-

ford.

1.

THE old gaol, built in 1702, was in the middle of the town. In front two Rem»r*s. small day-rooms, for felons, in which they were always locked up: no fire-place.—

Their dungeons or night-rooms, one down 18 steps, the other 19. Over their day-rooms, was a large lumber-room; and joining to it a lodging-room for women-felons. Backward was a small court for debtors, and women-felons. On each fide of it were two rooms on the ground-floor, and two chambers for debtors. No chapel. No infirmary. The act for preserving the health of prisoners, and clauses against spirituous liquors, not hung up.

In the interval of two of my visits the gaol-fever prevailed, and carried off seven or eight prisoners, and two turnkeys.* The felons were on that occasion removed to the bridewell. At my second visit in 1776, four were Tick.

1 was well informed, that a prisoner brought oat as dead, from one of the dungeons, on being vtajbeJ nier lit f*mf, shewed signs of life, and soon after recovered. Since this, I have known ctbtr instances of the fame kind. (See /gt 23.)

This

HERTFORDSHIRE.

Home Circuit.

This old gaol could not have been made healthy and convenient: but the prtfoners are now in a new one situated just out of the town, with separate wards (16 feet

8 inches by n feet 7) and courts for debtors, men-felons and women-felons: the whole is properly surrounded by a wall 15 feet high . which being at a considerable distance from the building, the keeper has within it a convenient garden.

The felons looked healthy and well, which I am persuaded was owing to the gaoler's not crowding them into a few rooms.

An obvious defect or two in this new gaol I will just mention, that architedts employed in such buildings may not imitate them. The rooms are not vaulted. The corridor is too narrow, but feet aide; and the pillars (not being of done, or circular) make the rooms dark and close. The door-ways are only 1 foot 10 inches wide, so that no crib-bedsteads can be introduced.—The two rooms appropriated for the sick, are too small. No bath. The chapel close, has no cupola.

HertferJshire, /» exit. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace of oar Sovereign—holden at— Hertford on Monday—the 12th day of January in the first year of—our Sovereign Lord George III. by the grace of God—and in the year of our Lord 1761 before Sir Richard Chaft Kn*. Ralph Freeman Doctor in Divinity, RUbd fParren, James Garden, W« JanJJen and IP* Plumsr the younger, Esqr*-and others. See.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler—settled—purfuant to an AA—made in the jjd year of— K. George II.

For the chamber-rent, bed and bedding of each debtor per night provided that no more than rwo be pot into one bed nor more than two beds in one room For the chamber-rent, bed and bedding of each prisoner upon criminal process per week provided that no more than two be pat into one bed; nor more than two beds In the fame room ......

For the turnkey’s fees into gaol .....

For the turnkey’s fees out of gaol -----

ho; the gaoler’s fees upon each prisoner discharged ...

£. S. D.

004

03 6

o 1 0

0 1 0

o 13 4

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

HERTFORD- This is also che borough gaol. Two small rooms to the street, the Compter.—The bridewell has two rooms, the middle ward and the lower ward: no chimney;: windows not glazed. The night dungeon for men is down 7 steps, 161 feet by io(, and 6 feet high: the window 2 feet 7 inches by 1 foot 6: a court, and pump, water bad; but prisoners are always locked up within doors: no employment. The county gaoler is keeper, and has £24 a year to supply

each

Home Circuit.

HERTFOUD SHI RE.

257

each prisoner daily with a pound of bread. Fees, £0:4:6. Debtors fees, as at the county gaol. Clauses against spirjtuous liquors not hung up.

1774, Dec. 14, Prisoners 4. 1773, Sep. 27, Prisoners 1.

1776, feb. 14, 7. 1782, April 9, - - 4. one a Debtor.

----- Nov. 22, - 4. 1783, Oft. 23, - 7.

HITCHIN. In the work-house yard, a room for men 20^ feet by io^-s and over it two rooms for women, who go up to them by a ladder. No chimney in any of the rooms: no ltraw: no court: no water: no allowance: no employment. Keeper’s salary, £24: no fees.

1776, Feb. 14, Prisoners 2. 1782, April 9, Prisoners 1.

1779. OS- 2t> o. Dec. 2, - - 3.

BERKHAMSTEAD. Award for men, and another for women. A dungeon down 9 steps, 13 feet by yi, and 6 feet 3 inches high: earth floor, very damp, no window: no chimney: no bedsteads: no ltraw. Keeper’s salary, £20: no fees: has the profit of the prisoners work. They are sometimes employed in chopping rags. Allowance, a pound of bread a day.

1776, Nov. a, Prisoners o.

1779, April 2j, - 1.

1782, Oft. 31, - - o.

BUNTINGFORD. Two rooms; one for men, 19 feet by 8; the other a new one for women, 13 feet by 10. No fire-place. Offensive fewer. No court: no water. The keeper has a large garden. Salary, £9: 1: 4.

1779, Sep. 27, Prisoner 1.

1782, May 6, - - 1.

At St. ALBANS are,

THE BOROUGH GAOL, or Compter. Debtors have sometimes the use of the town-hall in the day-time: the lodging-room of those that pay joins to it. Felons and poor debtors have two day-rooms, and two close offensive night-rooms: no fire-place. Allowance to felons, a pound of bread a day. No straw: no court: no water. The late keeper’s salary was £3. The present keeper pays rent to the corporation £10 a year, as appears by the mayor’s receipt June 9,

1781. Fees for felons, 13 j. 4d. Licence for beer. Clauses against spirituous liquors

L1 hung

Bride-

WEI>L9«

-s*

HERTFORDSHIRE.

Home Circuit.

St.

Alia*!.

hang up.—The debtors from the court of requests (debts under 40r.) are confined here with felons. Though the act of 2jth Geo. II. clears them in forty-two days, yet as it does not specify the gaoler’s fees, and here is no table, they mull continue in prison till they can. pay whatever the keeper demands.

1776, March 1, No prisoners.

----- Nov. 3, Debtors s. Felons See. 2.

1779, April 24, - - o. - - o. Deserter 1.

1782, May 7, - - 1. - - - x.

THE LIBERTY GAOL, for twenty-two parishes, is the property of lord Salisbury. For debtors, two spacious day-rooms, and three lodging-rooms.—For felons, three offensive rooms. When there are men and women, they cannot be properly separated.—One of the windows is towards the road, through which tools were lately conveyed, which facilitated the escape of an atrocious criminal.—No itraw: no court. Salary, £16. Licence for beer. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hungup. Fees, 13a. 4^. notable.

1776, March 1, No prisoners.

----- Nov. 3, Debtor 1.

1779, April 24, - - o. Felon &c. 1. Deserters 2.

1782, May 7, - o. - - - o.

THE BRIDEWELL for the liberty, and for the Borough, joins to the Liberty gaol. One large work-room, and two lodging-rooms; all up stairs, and airy. No court: no water: no allowance: no straw. Prisoners have their earnings. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary for the liberty, £28 } for the borough, £2: no fees. In 1779, f found a girl, who was ientcnced for a year's imprisonment, locked up all the day with two soldiers in the work-room: and at my last visit, a girl and a boy were confined together.

1-76, March 1, Prisoners 2. 1779, April 24, Prisoners 3.

----- Nov. 2, - - o. 1782, May 7, - - 2.

ESSEX.

Home Circuit.

ESSEX.

*S9

COUNTY GAOL at CHELMSFORD.

GAOLER, Sufama Taylor, afterwards John Reynolds, now his Widow.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, ? ,

Felons, = 15 ! 4‘

Transports, to London or Gravesend, £ i: 5: o for each, if not more than seven: for each above seven, £1:1:0.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, n a pound and half of bread a day, and a quart of small Felons, $ beer. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors, £0:4: 6, now £0:6: 6.

Felons, 0:3:; 0, now 0:3: 6.-

N umber, Debtors. Felons Sec. Debtors. Felons &c.

*774> Feb. 4, 3°. 3°’ T779» April 7, 34, 7-

Dec. 6, <3. 31. 1782, July 12, 28, 19.

1775. Oft. 19, i9» 14. 1783, Oft. 27, 25

'776, Nov. 20, 11, 7-

CHAPLAIN,

Duty,

Salary,

SURGEON,

Salary,

now Rev. Mr. Morgan.

Sunday.

£40, now 50.

Mr. Griffinboofte.

£2j, for felons, and the bridewell prisoners.

C H E L M S -TORO.

THE old prison was close, and frequently infefted with the gaol-distemper. Remark,. Inquiring in October 177J, for the head-turnkey, 1 was told he died of it.

In the tap-room there hung a paper on which, among other things, was written,

“ Prisoners to pay garnish or run the gauntlet.”

Debtors have a bushel of coals a day from about 12th of November to the 12th of May: and £j a year by a legacy of Elizabeth Herris from lands in Brentwood, paid by the reftor or minister of the parish of Chelmsford on the 24th of December.

By a memorial hung up in the tap-room, it appears the bequest was acknowledged by the teftatrix 14th June 1746.—It was generous in the justices to grant debtors the fame allowance as felons j and very judicious to fix that allowance to a certain weight.

It gave me pain to be informed in 1775, that there had been no divine service for above a year past, except to condemned criminals.

The new gaol exceeds the old one in strength and convenience as much as' in splendour. The county, to their honour, have spared no cost. The prison was

L 1 2 finished

ESSEX.

Home C»cmr.

160

Chelks.

rotp

COUKTT

Gaol.

finished and occupied at the time of my visit in 1779. The debtors rooms are 17 feet 10 inches by I$ feet j, and 9 feet 10 high. At one end of their court is a work-room jjf feet by 147, and 12 feet $ inches high, with a fire-place and four large windows: here many were weaving garters. Over this is their free ward. At the other end of the court is their hall or kitchen, in which clauses against lpiriruous liquors painted on a board were hung up, and the memorial of Mrs. Herris’s legacy, and a new table of fees. The felons rooms (15 feet 9 inches by 14^) are lofty, lined with stone and vaulted. Near their court are two rooms in a small area for the condemned. The women-felons are separated; they have two rooms, a court and a pump. The courts are paved with flat stone. There is a chapel. Only one dole room for an infirmary, which, being unfuroiihed, has never been uled, though at my last visit several were sick on the floors. No bath. The felons apartments being entirely out of fight from the gaoler’s house, I beg leave to observe, that a window might be made in his kitchen, which would overlook the felons court. The window in the debtors apartment towards the street was highly improper, as an avenue for introducing at all times spirituous liquors, tools, &c. but it is tuno flopped up. The straw in the felons rooms (as also in the bridewell) is on the floors. Such cribs or cradles as are in the hospital at Plymouth (fee plate II.) would be much more conducive to health and cleanliness. The act for preferring the health of prisoners is not hung up: and this gaol has not been white-washed since it was first occupied; a fault too common in new gaols.—The felons arc too much crowded at night, when some of their rooms are empty.

TABLE OF FEES.

Essex. At General Quarter SefEons, Uc.—a Table of Fees settled—to be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty’s Gaol—purfuant to an Act—made in the second Year of—K. Geokge II. *4*.

For the chamber-rent bed and bedding of each debtor per night provided that no more than two be pot into one bed. nor no more than two beds in the fame room For the chamber-rent bed and bedding of each priibner upon criminal process per voeek provided that no more than two be pat into ope bed nor more than two beds in one room -----

For the turnkey’s fee into gaol -

For the turnkey’s fee out of gaol - " -

For the gaoler’s fee upon each debtor’s discharge -

Reviewed and confirmed determined by us the Justices of Affine this 19th Day of July 1729. -

R: Etke

Law: Caktee. The Bremftm Tht Walftri John CheveUy.

Signed by ns JaSkcs of Peace of sad for the said County this 19th day of July Arm Dam. 1729.

Rais Abdy Henry Maynard Benj Meyer.

£. S. D. 004

036 010 010 o 13 4

The

Home Circuit. ESSEX.

The new table of fees, which is dated 5th of October 18 th Geo. III. and signed by Thomas Camper, James Raymond, and Richard Hunt, Esqr‘. and at the Lent Assize at Chelmsford 1780 approved of by Mr. Justice Gould, is the fame as the old table; only there is added, “ For every felon prisoner, discharged by proclamation, to be paid by the treasurer of the county; £0: 13: 4.”

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

CHELMSFORD. On the ground-floor a large work-room, a kitchen, and a lodging-room for men: over them rooms of the fame size for women: two rooms for the lick. Prisoners always kept within doors; and the rooms very offensive by the sewers.* Neither here nor at the gaol, are there proper drains or sewers. Mr. Ford (the keeper) told me at one of my visits that many had been ill of the gaol-fever, brought from the county gaol. His salary, £30: under-keeper’s, £\(s\ no fee*. Prisoners allowance, three pence a day; for which they have a pound and half of bread, and a quart of small beer; and three halfpence a day farther allowance to each lick prisoner. Coals, straw, brooms &c. (4:1:6a quarter. The employment of the prisoners is spinning wool, at a penny a Ikain: the county has the profit. At my lait vilit, there were several sick and dirty objects on the floor, with little or no covering. No bath. Garni Ih is.

1774, Dec. 6, Prisoners 18. 17.79, April 7, Prisoners 47.

1775, Oct. 19, - - - 15. 1782, July 12, - - - 48.

1776, Nov. 40, - - - ai, 1783, Oft. 27, - - - 31.

COLCHESTER. The Castle, the property of the late Charles Gray, Esq. was formerly the county gaol. That part of it which is now the bridewell, has— first, a room with a fire-place:- on one fide a room with a window; on another fide two rooms at a right angle with the former; a window in the farthermost. The rooms are about 13 feet square. The partitions are iron-grates for light and air, from the window at each end, and there is no decent separation of the sexes. Court little used by prisoners. No water: here was a well of fine water,

Those conveniences, which delicacy forbids enlarging upon, yet which are absolurely neccflury to all houses, and the situation and conilrufilon of which are of the greatest importance in prisons and other crowded buildings, have always engaged my peculiar attention: I am convinced, that want of care respetting them is a principal cause of unhealthiness in many of our gaols. The reader will please to take notice, that under the words /i'ntvri and drain, every thing is comprehended which I had to say on this subject in my remarks on the Several prisons.

Cues* is s>

VOED.

Batoa-

WELLS.

but

ESSEX.

Home Circuit.

but it has been lately arched over. Little or no employment; the wards arc dark, and arc never white-washed. Allowance, three pence a day: straw, £2 a year: firing, £2 a year. Keeper’s salary, £20: no fees.

i774j Feb. 14, Prisoners 1. t779> April 7; Prisoners 1.

1776, Nqv. 19, ... 3. 17S2, July 11, - - - 3.

NEWPORT. Built in 1775. The front is elegant, yet plain: in it are the keeper's apartments; and a room for the justices. Behind is the men’s court; in the middle of which is a pump. On the farther fide, a large work-room on the ground-floor with a fire-place (the only one in the prison), and a smaller work-room over it: so that too many need not work together. There is a lodging-room even with the upper work-room. On the left fide of the court are two lodging-rooms on the ground-floor, and two above. In all these lodging-rooms are boarded bedsteads: the sewers are offensive. The keeper has a view of this court from two of his back windows.—Women have a small room on the ground-floor; and one over it, tot feet square. These, though they join to the 1 aft-mentioned rooms for men, have no communication with them: you go to them through one of the keeper’s rooms: the court quite separate. But the . rooml being too small for the number of women, at my three last visits I found them in the men’s ward. If two of the men’s rooms were added to the women’s, there might always be an entire reparation. No infirmary. Allowance now, two pounds of bread each. Straw, £2 a year. Firing in winter, two guineas. Keeper's salary, £25: now £32: no fees. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.—If a latticed partition and door were made in the court, about fix feet from the keeper's door, it would prevent the prisoners from rulhing out. 1776, Dec. 6, Prisoners 3. 1782, May j, Prisoners 10.

779. ScP- 16, - - - 9- ----- July 12, - - - 15.

HALSTEAD. This house was rented of the trustees of Martin’s charity. Men and women had a separate work-room, and a separate lodging-room. There was a room for the sick. All out of repair. A court which men used one part

of the day, women another. No water. Keeper’s salary, £32: no fees.

Allowance, a pound and half of bread, and a quart of small beer, a day. The prisoners did ipin, but were not allowed any part of what they earned.—This prison was burnt down in March 1781, and four prisoners perished in the flames. At my last visit, another prison was building on some ground purchased by the county.

1776, Nov. 19, Prisoners 4.

1779, April 6, - - - 5. Impressed Men 2.

1782, July 11, - - - o.

BARKING.

Home Circuit. ESSEX.

BARKING. A room for men, the fore-gaol; ij feet by toi; 7 feet high; two

windows to the street. Another room, the back-gaol, for women; 13 feet inches by 11 feet; 8 feet high: one window about 2 feet square. They are planked all over: no chimneys: and both rooms are dirty and made very offensive by sewers in them. No court: keeper has a large garden. No water accessible to prisoners. Allowance, three pence a day: no employment. Keeper’s salary, £28: no fees. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Nov. 28, Prisoners 1.

1779, April 8, - 1. Impressed Men £.

1782, Dec. 27, - - 3-

COLCHESTER TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

A room for debtors. A strong ward for men: another for women; and now two rooms are added to the bridewell. Court very offensive, and not secure; no water in it: no straw. Allowance to criminals, three pence a day; and a chaldron of coals in winter. Keeper’s salary, £12. Licence for beer. Fees, 21, 6d. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Nov, 19, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 2.

177 9> APril 7> - - o. - - - 4.

.782, July 11, - - 1. - - - J.

HARWICH TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms towards the street; no chimneys: a back room called the dark gaol, and another with a fire-place. No court: no water: no fewer. Allowance, three halfpence a day. Keeper’s salary, ,£2: 8: o. Fees, 6 s. id. notable,

1778, April 18, No prisoners.

263

Bride-

WELLS.

KENT.

K E N T.

Home Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at MAIDSTONE.

GAOLER, Philip De’tilUn, now Thomas Watson.

Salary, £60, instead of the tap.

Fees, Debtors, £01 12:4.

Felons, o: 15: 4.

Transports, - 0:15:0 each, and the fees.

Licence, now wine. See Salary.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a loaf once in two days (weight lib. 402. Feb. 1776,

lib. %ox* Dec. 1782.J and every day a quart of finall

beer. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors, £0:3: O.

Felons, 0:1: 6.

Number, Debtor*. Fdons &c. Debtor*. Felons fee.

1774, April 13, ai. 31. 1779, April 16, 15. 23-

1775, July 25, 17, 26. 1781, Dec. 4, 24, 56.

1776, Feb. 19, 22, 38.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Oed/on.

Duty, new, only Sunday.

Salary, £30; augmented to £§o.

SURGEON, Mr. Waller, now Mr. Peckham.

Salary, £50, for the gaol and bridewell.

THIS gaol was erected in 1746, as appears by the date. On the first floor there are eight rooms for debtors, which open into a passage 6 feet 2 inches wide. Under thele are the felons wards near 13 feet frjuare: but the air and light are obstructed (the wall being 3 feet thick) by double wooden bars 3* inches broad (instead of Angle iron ones), at the windows both of debtors and felons. There are three courts: one for debtors; one for men-felons; and one for women-felons. The two last are much too small (that for men which is the largest only 28 feet by 27)5 but may be commodiously enlarged from the ground at the back of the gaol. Divine service was performed upon the stairs, but the chapel is now made commodious by the staircase being removed. The felons night-rooms have double doors; if one of them was an iron-lattice door (as in the new gaol at Horlham) and was locked up in the daytime, the rooms would freshen and be better ventilated. There are two dungeons (1feet square) down eleven steps for the condemned.

Felons

Home Circuit.

KENT.

265

Felons are allowed yearly ten chaldron of coals: they have barrack-beds,* and Maiostoni hop-bagging with straw; but no coverlets. This county has for years past been so County considerate as to pay the fees of poor prisoners acquitted: and to transports call at ®*01"

assizes, who are entitled to the king’s allowance of 2 s. bd. a week, they continue the allowance which they had before trial. They also pay the gaoler’s fees for those convicts. The felons formerly said they wilhed for more bread; and would, if that were increased, be content with less beer. The baker who serves the felons fells thirteen loaves to the dozen; and debtors have amongst them every thirteenth loaf, and are now allowed yearly three chaldron of coals.

There is an alarm-bell; and a fail-ventilator.

The infirmary is improperly situated. No bath. On examining two lick prisoners in 1779, I found they had no irons; and the surgeon said the gaoler was always ready to take them off when he requested it.

The clauses of the act against spirituous liquors are hung up. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

Without great attention to cleanliness and the reparation of the Tick, here will be great danger of the gaol-fever, from the offensiveness of the wards and even the COttr! of the men-felons. "

TABLE OF FEES.

Km!, n wit, A Tabee of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler—at Maidjhr.c—settled—at the General Quarter Session:—holden—on Thursday the 12th day of July in the 24th year of—George II.—and in the year—1750 pursuant to the direction of the Statute in that behalf provided.

£ S D-

For the discharge from the said gaol of every prisoner committed for treason, felony or any

offence against his majesty’s peace to the gaoler or keeper - - - o 13 4

To the turnkey on commitment of every such prisoner - - - o I o

To him more on the discharge of every such prisoner - - -010

On the commitment or coming into gaol of every prisoner in a civil action, to the said

gaoler or keeper - 030

On the discharge of every such pii/oner to the said gaoler or keeper - - so 7 10

And to the turnkey - - - - -016

For the use of bed bedding and sheets for each of the said last-mentioned prisoners on the

mailer’s-fide of the said prison for the first night to the said gaoler or keeper - 006

And for every night after the first - - - - -003

And if two such prisoners lye together in one bed then each - - -002

For every such prisoner as shall chuie to be on the master's-fide for the use of the bed,

bedding and iheets the first night - - - 006

Barrack-beds or bedsteads are low stages of boards, raised from the floor, and Hoping from the wall towards the middle of the room; as in the barracks for soldiers.

f Those figures 0710 were written upon a rasure.

M m

For

266

KENT. Home Circuit.

Mmbstoki

CotTKTT

Gaol.

For every night after the Srft - - . _ - o o

Bat if two fsch prisoners lye together then two.pence each - . - o o

If any such prisoner through poverty can only provide a couch, then to the said gaoler or

keeper for chamber-rent per week - - - - o o

D.

3

4

Joly 12th 1750 Seen and allowed by us

Wm. Turner P. Pettier Ed. Austen

lltrb ’. Palmer Jr,. Caldtr IfrK. Champness.

"A Troe Copy.*

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

MAIDSTONE. This prison was built in 1776. Two rooms and a small day-room, an infirmary and court for each sex. The courts are paved with flag-

stones as the debtors court should be in the county gaol, for frequent washing

freshens prilbos.* Keeper’s salary, £10, now £30. The prisoners were not in it in 1776; but in 1779 I found it inhabited, dirty and offensive. The prisoners were at work, but they have no part of what they earn. The county allowance is three pence every day, Sundays excepted, and now five chaldron of coals a year. Fees 3s. 6d. No table; but printed rules, orders and regulations established under the acts of 7th Jim. I. 17th Geo. II. and 22d Geo. III. were hung up in the wards. In 1779 I saw two prisoners with the small-pox, lying on loose straw, and their only covering was common mats.

1776, Feb. 19, Prisoners 2.

*779> APril 16, - - - 13.

1782, Dec. 4, - - - ij. Deserter 1.

CANTERBURY. Men and women separate. The latter have the back court in which is their ward. The men have a hall or kitchen to the street, and three wards or night-rooms 1 3 feet by 13, which open into a passage near feet wide. No court. Out of the keeper’s garden or yard might be taken a court for the men. There is no water within reach of the men; yet I found the prison clean, and regularly white-washed. An alarm-bell is lately put up. County allowance, two pennyworth of bread a day (weight Dee. 5, 1782, 1802.). No employment. In 1776, the juiliccs abolished the fees 132. 41J. and raised the salary from £25

See fagt 166.

to

Home Circuit.

KENT.

to £40. Licence for beer. Surgeon, Mr. Le'grand. This prison is unhealthy from the offenfiveness of the sewers and the prisoners lying in their clothes, as they have no bedding but mats.

1774, April 13, Prisoners 8. 1779, April 16, Prisoners 4.

1776, Feb. 17, - - - 13. 1782, Dec. 5, - - - II.

..... May 25, - - - 6.

DARTFORD. This county bridewell, built in 1720, consists of two rooms: one for men 20 V feet by 17 feet 10 inches: one for women, 14 feet square: both 10 feet high. No chimneys: offensive sewers; and the rooms dirty: no water: no straw: mats, but quite worn out. No court; though the keeper has a garden. His salary, £20: fees, js. 6d. notable. Allowance to those committed on suspicion of felony, two pence halfpenny a day.

The keeper told me, they had about two years ago, a bad fever's which himself and family, and every freili prisoner caught. Three died of it.—The prisoners were well, and at work, upon a manufacture of flax-dressing and weaving sacks.

The above was the account of this prison in 1776; but in 1779, there were two courcs taken from the keeper’s garden, one for each sex, with pumps and sewers, and a room in the men's court for the Tick: but the women had no mats or any kind of bedding.

Here are three dungeons (12 feet by 5), damp, and not secure. The floors {hould be boarded. At my last visit I found one prisoner, who had been committed for three months from July 18th, still in confinement for the court fees, gr. 4d. and the keeper's fees, 3s. 6d.—Committed in 1780, one hundred and seven prisoners;—in 1781, ninety-two;—and in 178a, one hundred and three.

1776, April 24, Prisoners 6.

779» -----»5> - - S-

1782, Dec. 3, - - j.

CANTERBURY CITY GAOL,

Over the Weft-gate. One large day-room for men and women lately divided into two: and in each of the two towers, a night-room (11* feet diameter): no lower: no court; and prisoners are not permitted to walk on the leads. Allowance, two pennyworth of bread a day. Keeper’s salary, £$. Fees, debtors 6s. id. felons 13 s. 4d. no table. He keeps a public house adjoining, in which is a room or two

M m 2 for

KENT.

Home Circuit.

for master's-fide debtors. No regard is paid to the clause enjoining that “ once in the year at least” the gaols shall be white-washed.

Debtors. Felons See. Debtors. Felons tec.

1774. APril >0. j> 6- >779* APril ,6> 2> 2-

1776, Feb. 17, 3, 2. 1782, Dec. 5, 1, 2.

CANTERBURY City Bridewell. A room in the front court of the work-house. 1782, Dec. s. No prisoners.

ROCHESTER CITY GAOL,

Under the court-room. One day-room to the street, and two inner or night-rooms; all close and offensive. In the keeper’s house is a room for such debtors as can pay for a bed; and another in which women-felons were kept when the assizes were held here. No court: no water accessible to prisoners. Allowance, two pence a day. Keeper a sergeant: no salary: fees, 6s. no table. At my visit in 1779,

I found two debtors who had been locked up some weeks in the close offensive room next the street.—The court-room was built, as appears by the date, in 1687, and it is probable, there has been no alteration in the prison since that time.

Debtors, Felons tec. Debtors. Felons SeC,

i~74> April 14, 1, o. 1779, April 15, 2, o.

1776, May 25, o, o. 1782, Dec. 3, o, o.

ROCHESTER City Bridewell. Two rooms down eight steps with barrack-bedlieads and draw. Fees, ir. Keeper’s salary, £2, paid out of Mr. Watts's charity, f

1782, Dec. 3, and 1783, June 24, No prisoners.

DOVER CASTLE,

For Debtors in the Cinque-Ports, i. e. Hafiings, Dtver, Hytb, Romney, and Sandwich.

The Earl of Hcldcmr/s was constable; now Frederick Lord North is constable, and Philip Leman, bodar. Two rooms: one 20J feet by 12 j, the other 13 feet by 11.

This work-heuse is finely fitoated, a river running between the two courts; hut being an old building, the rooms elefe, and the cieling* low, it cannot be convenient and lalutary for the numerous inhabitants.

t This bridewell is ia a house appointed for the reception of fix poor travellers. The dciign of this ebanty may be seen from the following iofeription placed over the door. “ Richard Waits, Esq;

by his will dated zzd of Aogoil, iyj$, foended this charity, for &x poor travellers, who, not “ rogues ot pro&orr, may receive gratis, for one eight, lodging, entertainment, and four

* pence each.'*

Offensive

Home Circuit. K E' N T.

Offensive sewers: no court; one might be made from the keeper’s garden: no water. Fees, £i: io: o. Keeper is bailiff for the Cinque-farts: salary, £30. At a former visit the prison was dirty: the keeper’s apology for it was, that “ he had been absent some weeks on his business as an officer. ” Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Feb. 17, Prisoners 4.

1779, April 17, - - 3.

1782, Dec. 6, - - 2.

DOVER Town Gaol. One room of it is the bridewell. The gaol is two rooms on the ground-floor (12 feet by 9f), and for debtors two above. No fireplaces. All close and offensive; but at my last visits it was much cleaner, and quieter; and no company were drinking the re, as the present keeper has no licence. The court not secure. Allowance, four pence a day. Keeper’s salary, £10 and a chaldron of coals: fees, 8r. id. no table.

Debtor*. Felons Sic, Debtors. Felons &c.

177f> Juty I» 2- «779> APr‘l >7?

1776, Feb. 17, 3, 4. 1782, Dec. 6, 1, 3.

----- May 25, a, 3.

ROMNEY Gaol. This prison at New Romney was built in 17JO. Two rooms; one on the ground-floor; the other level with the keeper’s cellar. Behind is the bridewell, a large room with a fire-place. Allowance to felons 6d. a day. Keeper, no salary. Fees, 3s. 4d. no table.

1782, Dec. 6, One felon.

SANDWICH Gaol and Bridewell. A room in front: and a back room called the dungeon: above stairs two rooms. In the court two new rooms without fire-places. The inscription over them: “ This house of correction was built in the “ year 1776 in the mayoralty of Joseph Stewart, Esq. at the joint expence of the " parishes in Sandwich, the parish of Walmer, and the vills of Ramsgate and Sarr.” No court: no water: no fewer. Keeper, no salary. Fees, 13s. 4d.

1782, Dec. 5, No prisoners.

DEAL Gaol. A room under the court only Sf feet determined by 6 f, with a barrack-bedstead. Keeper, town-sergeant, lives distant. I did not wonder that a felon had made his escape the night before my visit.

1782, Dec. 5, No prisoners.

269

Doves.

COUNTY

270

SUSSEX.

Home Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at HORSHAM.

Hor = hau.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Charles Cooper, now Samuel Smart.

jltio of late; in lieu of all fees: now^ioo. (See Remarks.)

Debtors,^ ;4= io

Felons,

Transports, - 2:2:0 each.

Licence, Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two pennyworth of bread a day: now a 2 lb. loaf. Garnish, £0: 6: 6.

Number, Debtors. Fdoas Sec. Debtors. Felons Ac

773, Dec. 17, ai, 7. 779, March 9, 12, 6.

774, Sept. 29, j, 13.* 1782, Nov. 8, 16,

776. Feb. 22, 13, 8.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Jameson.

Duty, Sermon once a week; prayers every day.

Salary, £$o. (See Remarks.)

SURGEON, now Mr. Dubbins.

Salary, £$ -.5:0 for felons.

ReuaRRS. THF. rooms in the old gaol were too final], except the free-ward for debtors.

No draw: no court; and yet ground enough for one behind the gaol. Transports convicted at quarter sessions, had as those condemned at assize, the king’s allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. Lent assize at East-Grinstead; where the prisoners are confined in a garret at the George alehouse; formerly they were lhut up in a butcher’s cellar. Summer assize, at Lewes and Horsham alternately.

The new gaol that was building in 1776, I found finished in 1779. The duke of Richmond, in concurrence with the other gentlemen of the county, interested himself much in this affair. The lituation is judiciously chosen; and the plan is such as appears to me particularly well suited for the purpose. It does credit to those who superintended the work, being every way substantial and strong. Each felon has a separate room 10 feet by 7, and 9 feet high to the crown of the arch. They are all arched with brick, to prevent danger and confusion in case of fire. To each room are two doors, one of them iron-latticed.

This

See sage -i.

Home Circuit.

S U S S E X.

271

This gaol has two floors over arcades j the ascent to each is by a stone staircase with iron rails. On each floor, both on the debtors and felons fide, there are ten rooms (five on each fide a passage j feet wide), besides a day-room (28 feet by ia feet j inches) and a lodging-room for a turnkey. Each floor has an iron-lattice door i and every room has a Ihutter for the window, a bedstead, a canvass draw bed, and two blankets: and the county is so considerate as to allow a bushel of coals to the debtors, and the fame quantity to the felons, every day during the fix winter months.

Here are two Ipacious courts with water in each« and a wall encloses the whole prison.—Near the gate is a poor’s box, for obtaining prisoners groats.

The felons on their entrance are washed with warm water, and each man is clothed in a green striped uniform of coat waistcoat and breeches, and has two lhirts, two pair of (lockings, a pair of ihoes, a hat and woollen cap.

The county has very prudently settled the number of turnkeys (viz. three): to each they pay half a guinea a week, and one of them goes twice a day to purchase provisions and liquors for debtors; and it is properly fixed that they shall not exceed one pint of wine, or one quart of strong beer a day each. Felons have only water for their drink. The justices have sent in scales and weights, which is a check on the baker. Several loaves I saw weighed were full lib.

The clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up, and the gaol is kept very clean. The act for preserving the health of prisoners is not hung up. 1 would just observe, that the gaoler should have a window in his kitchen towards the debtors court, and in his parlour towards that of the felons.—I do not omit the old table of fees, though this county has set a noble example of abolishing all fees, and also the tap: in consequence of this I found the gaol as quiet as a private house.

Formerly there was no chaplain, but a clergyman had £5 a year for attending condemned criminals,

TABLE OF FEES.

Svjfix. A List of Fees taken by the Gaoler of the said County.

Upon the discharge of every debtor £ s. - I 2 D. 4

The (herifPs fee thereupon - - - O 11 8

Turnkey thereupon - - - . . - O 2 6

For every peck of charcoal - . - - O O 3

For every fagot - - - - 0 O , 1

For every quart of Jraal! beer - - - O O

For lodgings in the gaoler’s beds by the week' - - - 0 a 0

Upon the discharge of every felon, to the gaoler - - - 1 2 4

Allowed and settled at the General Quarter Sclfions held at Petworth the 3d Day of October 1737 By u»

Join Butler R. Mill J. Jtwkes IV” Graiwicle

COUNTY

Horsiiau County Gaol.

SUSSEX.

Home Circvit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

HORSHAM. The bridewell which was in chis town is now discontinued.

LEWES. Here men and women have similar but separate apartments; a kitchen, five bed-rooms 10 feet square, a- work-lhop, court, &c. Keeper’s salary, £30. Fees, 6s. id. no table.- The produce of the prisoners work for three years preceding 1776, was not twenty shillings a year; although there were in the respective years committed prisoners 45—83—65. At my last visits I found no prisoners at work; but as there were chalk, mallets, sieves, &cc. in the men’s work-room, it seems that they are fomecimes employed in making whiting. When they work, the keeper has all the profits. The county allowance is i'J. in bread (tseight in Dec. 1782, 13 oz.'j. The keeper has no view from his house into the rooms or courts of the prison. Surgeon, Mr. Turner. He makes a bill: for the sick he orders better nourishment. Clauses against spirituous liquors nor hung up.

1776, Feb. 21, Prisoners 5.

1779, April 19, - - 8.

1782, Dec. 7, - - 7.

PETWORTH. This bridewell has two rooms: one 17 feet by 10, the other 18 by 9, 6 feet high: too small for the general number of prisoners. No chimney: no glass or shutters to the windows: no court: no water: no employment. Allowance novo, a two-pound loaf every day, to be weighed by the keeper with scales and weights ordered to the house by the justices; and which Jbculd be kept for that purpose only. Keeper’s salary lately augmented from £\ 2 :o /20. Fees, 6s. Sd. no table. But now the keeper’s salary is augmented to £2° *n lieu of all fees.

The keeper told me (in September 1774) that “ all his prisoners upon discharge, were much weakened by the dole confinement, and small allowance. ”

Thomas Draper and William Godfrey were committed the 6th of January 1776 j the former died the 1 tth, the other the 26th of the fame month. William Cox, committed the 13th of January, died the 23d. None of them had the gaol-fever. I do not affirm that these men were famished to death: it was extreme cold weather. However, since that time, the allowance of bread is doubled. For this the prisoners are indebted to the kind attention of the duke of Richmond.—This prison (rented by the county) has cauled the death of many poor creatures: but 1 have now the pleasure to hear that it will soon be discontinued, a new one being under the consideration of the justices.

1774,

Home Circuit. SUSSEX.

1774, Sept. 28, Prisoners 4. 1779, March 8, Prisoners a.

1776, Feb. 23, . - 8. 1782, Nov. 7, - o.

BATTEL. Two rooms 14 feet by i2i; in one of which is a chimney} in the other, the stocks. Court not secure. No water but in the keeper’s garden. Allowance, seven farthings a day} the fame, the old keeper said, in the thirty years of his time, and in the many years of his father’s time. Salary, £10. Fees, jr. 4d.

1779, April 18, Prisoners o.

1782, Dec. 7, - o,

CHICHESTER CITY GAOL and BRIDEWELL,

Over the EalV-gate. Has five rooms, one of which is called the dungeon, and another the bridewell. A court, now with a pump. Allowance to felons 8ec. two pence a day. Gaoler, a sergeant at mace: salary, £j, now £1$: fees, debtors, 6s. id. no table.

Debtors. Felons Sec. Debtors Felons tec.

1774, Sept. 28, 1, o. 1779, March 8, o, o.

1776, Feb. 25, 2, 1. 1782, Nov. 7, o, o.

*73

B.idc-

WELLS.

RYE Town Gaol. An old tower called Tf res-fort. One of the three lower rooms is about 17 feet diameter, with afire-placet the other two about 6 feet: above stairs are three rooms of the fame dimensions. Allowance to prisoners, three halfpence a day. Fees, 3s. 4d. no table. Salary, none. Keeper, a sergeant at mace.

1779, April 18, Prisoners 0.

1782, Dec. 6, - - o.

EAST-GRINSTEAD Prison.* Under the court, a room 6 feet 8 inches fijuare, and 5 feet 8 inches high. The constable is keeper.

1782, Dec. 8, No prisoners.

Sec fags VjO*

Nn

SURREY.

174

SURREY.

Home Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL ih SOUTHWARK.

SOTTH*

VAftC.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

T ranfports, licence,

PRISONERS,

Allowance,

Garnish,

Benjamin Hall. none.

Debtors, £o: 12: 4.

Felons, o: 15: 4.

(See Remarks.)

Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

Debtors, 7 three halfpennyworth of bread a day (weight 17 oz. JJec. Felons, J 1776, and /big. 1779.—l30Z- Dec. 1782.—13 4.02. Sep.

1783). Legacies (See Remarks.)

Debtors, £0:4:6.

Felons, 0: i: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons

1774, Feb. 9, 3°> 60. 1782, Jan. 2, 32. 39

1776, March4, *9> 59- Dec. ij. 23. 42.

Dec. 25, 18, 1783, Sep. 14, 26, 53-

1779, Aug. 9, CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Duty, Sunday. Salary, £50. 23» Dper. >4- —— oa. 29, 27. SS-

SURGEONS, Mefirs. Burt and Co. now Stapleton and Waljhman.

Salary, £10, for this gaol, and the bridewell in St. George’s Fields; and £3 for travelling charges to report at the quarter sessions, the Hate of the prisoners.

Re muz-. THE New Gaol, besides the gaoler’s house, and the tap-room, has—for master's-fide debtors, a parlour, and four other sizeable rooms; and for common-fide debtors, three good rooms. Mr. Hall prevents their being crowded with the wives and children of the debtors. For these prisoners, there is a court; into which felons are not admitted; except a few, whom the gaoler has reasons for indulging with that distinction.

The ward for men-felons has fix rooms on three floors; in these they sleep. There is a court belonging to it.—The ward for women-felons has two lower rooms, two above; -and a court.—The felons courts should be paved with flat stones, not only for the convenience of waihing, but for safety, as pebbles are dangerous. In the nten’s court there should be a pump and a convenient bath, for at several of my visits the thanes water was off-.

In

Home Circuit.

SURREY.

*75

In the two upper rooms of the women’s ward, are put malefa&ors of either Tex condemned to die, and sometimes pirates. I have here noted eighteen rooms: yet they are not sufficient for the number of prisoners. Mr. Hall is sometimes obliged to put men-felons into some rooms of the women’s ward. In so clofc a prison situated in a populous neighbourhood, I did not wonder frequently to find several felons Tick on the floors. No bedding nor draw. The act for preserving the health of prisoners and the clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up.

A chapel and two cloje rooms for the sick, lately built on the vacant ground where formerly was the house of correction; after the riots in 1780, were used for a bridewell till that in St. George’s Fields was rebuilt. At my last visit the chapel was fitted up, and the two small rooms for an infirmary: these are on the ground-floor, only one window in each. Many were sick on the dirty floors j one of the turnkeys had lately died of a fever: of the fifty-five felons &c. in October 1783 s sixteen were fines, and I have the names and the sentences of twenty-five convicts, who are left languishing in this sickly gaol.*

Transports have not the king’s allowance of 2/. 6d. a week. For these a merchant formerly contrasted with the county to take them at the gaol: the gaoler sent them to the ship, attended by his servants; and received from the merchant ioj. 6d. for each prisoner so conducted.

Lent assize is at Kingston: summer assize at Guildford and Croydonf alternately.

There is hung up in the gaol a printed lift of sixteen legacies and donations. The dates of the first fix are 155$, 1571, 1576, 1584, 1597, IJ98. Three are in the next century, viz. 1609, 1638, 1656. The other seven are not dated: and one of them noted on the lift, has not been received since 1726. There are also other articles which seem to need inspeiftion. Two of the charities are for debtors expressly: the others are not so distinguished; but debtors have them all. In the title of the paper it is said, " The gaol was formerly called the Wibite Lion Prison.” The common leal of the prison is a lion rampant. One of the legacies was bequeathed by Eleanor Gwynn, from which are sent to this prison once in eight weeks, sixty-five penny loaves. Common-fide debtors have this as well as the preceding gifts.

Here I would just mention, that all the rags left by the felons after every assize, ought to be immediately burned, or rather buried; as they only serve to harbour vermin, dirt, and infection.

South-

wau

COOKTY

Gaol.

The occasion of my visit at this time, to this and two or three other prisons, was, that I had seen on board the hulks a few days befoie, several sickly objects, who told me they had lately come from this and other gaols; which, by the looks of those convicts, I was persuaded mult be in a bad (late. I was foi-ry to find them confirm my suspicions, that our gaols are verging to their old state. Without much additional and unremitting care, the benefits produced of late years by attention to this object, will prove merely tmporary.

t Poring the assize at Croydon the prisoners arc confined in two stables at the Thru Tans,

N n 2 Surry,

SURREY.

Home Circuit.

276

South-

wark

Coujstt

Gaol.

Surrey, / «ant. A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler—of the common Gaol or Prison in Szafinceri— for any Prisoner committed—Chamber-Rent there or Discharge—pursuant to the Statute —made—12th—of the reign of oar Sovereign Lord George III. See. and in the year of our Lord 1772.

For the discharge from the said gaol of every prisoner committed for treason, or felony or any offence against his majesty’s peace, to the gaoler or keeper To the turnkey on every commitment of such prisoner ..

To the turnkey on the discharge of every* such prisoner ..

On the commitment or eoming into gaol of every prisoner in a civil action, to the said gaoler or keeper

On the discharge of every such prisoner, to the said gaoler or keeper

And to the turnkey ......

For the ofe of bed bedding and (beets for each of the said mentioned prisoners on the master-fide of the said prison, for the first night, to the said gaoler or keeper And for every night after the first -

Bat if two such pnfoaas lye together in one bed, then one penny halfpenny each To the clerk of the papers on every discharge of any prisoner in a civil action For every such prisoner as shall chuse to be on the master-fide for the use of bed and bedding and (beets the first night

For every night after the first .....

Bat if two such prisoners lye together in one bed, then two pence each If any such prisoner through poverty can only provide a couch, then to the said gaoler or keeper for chamber-rent fur >iveei ....

£ s. D.

O 13 4.

O I 0

O 1 0

0 3 0

0 6 10

O 1 6

O 0 6

O 0 2

0 0 3

0 1 0

0 0 6

0 0 3

0 0

0 0 1

Seen and allowed by u> AT. Onslow H'm Joliffe Haymond N. Herdidge.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

= St. GEORGE’S FIELDS. Built 1772- Separate wards and courts for men ~L” “ and women. In the men's ward, two rooms, and a workshop (about 20 feet

square) below; and three rooms above: in one of chelc were beds at 2/. 6d. a week. The women’s ward had below, one room, and a workshop (about zo feet square) and three rooms above: in one of them beds at is* 6d. a week. There was a separate room for faulty apprentices. All the rooms were planked. Window shutters, and iron bars: no glass. There was no infirmary. In March 177b, I law several tick on the floors: the county allows no bedding nor draw. In April, only one sick, on a bed which he paid for. In December, a woman sick on the floor. The rooms were*dirty: in two or three of them were fowls. Pri loners allowance, three halfpence a day in bread (weight Dec. 1776, and Aug. 1779, 1702.). No firing. The fines or convicts were with the other prisoners, and had the fame allowance. They all were entirely without employment. Keeper a ffieriff’s officer: salary, ^25: licence for beer and wine. The clauses again# Spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, were both hung up.

1776, March 1.4, Prisoners 25. 1776, Dec. 25, Prisoners 29.

---April 3c, - - 24. 1779, Aug. 9, - - 44.

Of

Home Circuit.

SURREY.

277

Of the twenty-nine prisoners in Dec. 1776, were, four women sentenced for ten years, one woman for three years, three men for three years, four men for two years, three men for one year.

In the men’s court there was a board, on which was painted as follows:

Fees to be taken by the Keeper of this Prison.

£. S. D.

Of every prisoner for ward dues - - - o © z

On the discharge of every prisoner committed - - - - © 42

Prisoners brought in by a justice’s warrant and discharged - - -026

No garnish to be taken from one prisoner to another by order of the keeper*

N. B, 'This prohibition was di/rtgarded.

This prison was burnt by the rioters in 1780, and (as appears by the inscription in front) rebuilt in 1781. It is nearly on the fame plan. In the men’s court there are now added four rooms, planked round (9 feet 8 inches by 5* feet, and 7 feet inches high), very proper for the ieparation of the drunken and riotous. In each of the work-rooms (so called) there is a chimney. There are now two rooms for faulty apprentices. No bath.—Bread allowance, weight, Dec. 1782, ijez. Aug. 1783, 14*2. and Off. 29th 14Jez. Keeper now no licence. At my late vifics the prison was very dirty, and the prisoners still without employment.* At night they are crowded into one or two rooms, as all the upper rooms are kept for the few that can pay for beds.—I released a young man for his fees (4J. id.). The clauses' against spirituous liquors, act for preserving die health of prisoners, and the table of fees not hung up.

1782, Dec. 16, Prisoners 17.

1783, Aug. 22, - - 32.

----- Oft. 29, - - 37.

KINGSTON upon Thames. This bridewell, built in 1773, has a house for the keeper; and separate wards for men and women; with separate courts, work-ihops, pumps, &cc. Each ward has two lower rooms, three steps above the ground j and two chambers. The men’s rooms are near 17 feet by 14, and full 9 feet high: the women’s, about 15 feet square. Every room planked round: a chimney in each; and two windows, with shutters and iron bars, no glass.

If the great quantities of old cables and ropes piled up at the Tower were delivered out to the several keepers of bridewells in and about London to be wrought for use, and prompt payment made for the work, this would prevent the excuses of keepers for not employing their prisoners.—See a similar mode in Holland, where the -Admiralty and India Company find the old cords, and take the oakum when fit for use: a note in page Oi.

The

Bride-

wells.

SURREY.

Home Circuit.

The men's court 59 feet by 50: the women’s, 46 by 36. There is also a room quite separate for faulty apprentices; about S feet by 11, and full 8 feet high; it has a fire-place.

It is pity that to a prison in some respects so commodious, the gentlemen did not add an infirmary and a bath. Using any of the rooms for the purpose of the sick, will not prevent the communication of small-pox. &c. Surgeon’s salary, £10: 10: o, of which £§: 3: o is for travelling charges to report at the quarter sessions the llate of the prisoners.

County allowance, a three halfpenny loaf a day (weight in 1779, 17 oz. and a quarter} in 178a, I2ez. in 1783, 14oz.). No bedding. In 1776, they were at work, bearing hemp. The keeper has the profit of it, and a salary of £i§. In 1779, the act for preferring the health of prisoners was hung up, though but little attention is paid to it. On the bottom of the board was also painted, “ N. B. The fees for each person are 31. 41/. ”—Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. The prison was dirty, and the prisoners unemployed; the keeper informing me that they were not committed for hard labour, though some were imprisoned for a year.

One of the prisoners who was committed for bastardy, not finding sureties, had been sent back hither, from the preceding quarter sessions at Ryegate; where there is no prison. I had heard of the hardships fu fie red by prisoners when conveyed for trial to such towns; and inquired of this man, what was his firuation at Ryegate ? He said that “ he and fifteen others were confined there two or three days in a very small room; and almost: luflbeared. ” The keeper who was present confirmed the fast.

In 1782, I found the prison very dirty, and the prisoners still without employment. As the county allows no firing, bedding or bedsteads, many were lying sick on the floors. One woman was in a bed on the men’s-fide and two women In the room for faulty apprentices, but they pay for this privilege.—As I had been the preceding morning at Horlham gaol, where proper humanity is ihewn even to felons, I was the more (truck at seeing the wretched condition of these prisoners. There is a door from the men’s court into that of the women’s, and one of the men keeps the key, and can let any of the prisoners into the women's apartments. At my lait visit, no alteration.

Quarter sessions are held Lady-Day at Ryegate, Midsummer at Guildford, Michaelmas at Kingston, Christmas at St. Margaret’s Hill.

1776, April 26, Prisoners 4. 1782, Nov. 9, Prisoners 17. Deserter 1.

1779, March 11, - - 6. 1783, Oft. 21, - - 12.

GUILDFORD

Horns Circuit.

SURREY.

GUILDFORD BRIDEWELL, in 1776, had four rooms, besides the infirmary (lately a liable) and the condemned room. Yet when the assize is held here, and prisoners are brought from Southwark, it is much crowded. But in 1779, three new rooms up stairs had been lately added, and sewers below. A court, for the use of which every prisoner pays entrance-money one shilling. Here is but me day-room for men and women (10 feet 2 inches by 7 feet) which is the only room that has a chimney. Two rooms have in the roof an iron-grate lattice, about 5 feet by 4, and an open turret above-; very useful for freihening those rooms. Allowance, a threepenny loaf every other day (weight, Feb. 1776, 2 lb. Nov. 1782, lib. 11 oz.). No bedding nor straw. None were at work. Keeper’s salary, £25: fees, 3;. 4d. no table. The clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are both hung up.

1773, Dec. 17, Prisoners 6. 1771^March 9, Prisoners 3.

1776, Feb. 24, - - 6. 1782, Nov. 8, 3. Deserter 1.

KINGSTON TOWN GAOL.

Two lower rooms, and chambers; the cielings low. A court, not secure. The rooms at the Lent assize are crowded with prisoners. Gaoler keeps a public house. No salary. Fees, 2s. (fee table). Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung Up. 1776, April 26, Prisoners o. 1782, Nov. 9, Debtors 4.

1779, March 11, Debtors 3. 1783, Oft. 21, No prisoners.

In the Town-hall there is “ a table of such ordinary fees as are due to the bailiffs “ town clerk and other officers and ministers of the said town.” It is dated the " 10th of December 1603; and confirmed by Charles Lord Howard, &c. high steward “ of the said town. Sir Edward Coke attorney general and learned steward of the “ court of the said town: the two bailiffs, the recorder with the afientof the freemen.” There are the several fees of the bailiffs—town clerks—attorneys—fergeants—gaolers —cryers—chamber fees, and at last orders to be observed.

£ s. D.

For every one arreited wanting sureties and sent to gaol - - -020

For every one sent to ward upon commandement or arreited for a trifle or being very poor

not above - - - - -008

For the fee of the irons of every one committed for felony or suspicion of felony or for any

other heinous crime ~ - - - *020

I am tempted to transcribe many more articles of this curious ancient table r I cannot omit the two or three following.

For arreiling any freeman of this town inhabitant within the watch - - o or 6

For the attorney’s fee upon evidence delivering to a jury, when there is no other counsell 026 Every counfeilor’s fee in this court - - - 068

279

Bride-

waif

BUCKING-

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit;

2 SO

COUNTY GAOL at AYLESBURY.

Ayles-

BURT.

GAOLER, Tbcwuu Smith.

Salary, £70. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, £01 15: 10.

Felons, o-: 18: 4.

Transports, is. a mile each. (See Remarks.) Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, > ,

Felons 5each a of bread a day. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors, £0: S: o.

Felons, 0:2:6.

Number, Debtm. felons tec. Debtors. felons &c.

773. Nov. 27, 6, *7* 1776, Nov. 2, 7, 3-

1774. ». krr 8. 1779, Feb. 25, 6, 12.

1776, Jan. j. IO, 10. 1782, April 29, 20, 6. Deserters 2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Of Idas. Duty, Sunday.

Salary, /40-

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. LssdgaU, now Mr. Hayward.

£zo, for debtors, felons, and the bridewell.

ONE court, 29 feet by l6i-, now a pump, and water laid in to the yard. A hall for debtors j and sundry rooms for the master’s-fide. Only one day-room for men and xoaen felons: in this room is an oven for purifying the clothes. The women’s two night-rooms are small; one under the stairs, 6 feet S inches by feet 10; the other 8 feet by 5 1, and 6 feet hitch: no windows.—Two condemned rooms. In the interval of my first and iecond visit, six or seven died of the gaol-distemper. At my visits in 1776, after the appointing Mr. Lssdgate, all the prisoners were well. In 1779, two men sentenced for three years had continued here two years and a half; one of them was much emaciated by confinement without work.* At my last visit five were fines, one for seven years, another for three. No infirmary. Divine service is performed in the shire-hall which joins to the prison. A table of fees is now

The surgeon and gaoler both informed me, that three men brought from Hertford gaol the Lent assize 1778, had their tqer mortified; which being similar to what I once saw in that gaol, I could the more easily credit it.

painted

Norfolk Circuit. BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

painted on a board, and hung up in the debtors hall, but not confirmed by a judge. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Mr. Smith contrafted to supply the poor debtors and felons with two hot dinners a week j and to convey transports to London; for £70 a year. At summer assize, prisoners are moved from hence to Buckingham.

A lady at Weston left an annuity of 13J. 4d. which is paid by the church-wardens of Aylesbury, and distributed among debtors and felons.

A List of Fees allowed to be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty’s Gaol at Ayhjhury in and for the County of Bucks, examined, settled—by the Hon. Sir William Stanhope, Knight of the Bath, Richard Lo<wsdcs and John Rive/t Esqrs. three of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the said County of Bucks—at their General Quarter Session of the Peace Holden at Aylesbury—on the 21ft Day of April, in the 21ft Year of the Reign of— George the Second—and in the Year of our Lord 1748*

From Debtors on their discharge for the first warrant on roefne process, execution or otherwise the sum of -----

For every warrant he is charged with afterwards the sum of -To the ftieriff for his liberty the sum of To the turnkey -

From Felons at the assizes the sum of - - -

To the turnkey -----

At the quarter fession or otherwise the sum of -

To the turnkey -

Chamber rent if the debtor is furnished with bedding per week the sum of -If he finds his own bedding unless he lie in the common-room the sum of -Searching the files for any warrant -

For a copy thereof -----

For every declaration or other pleadings whatsoever to be paid by the plaintiff or his agent On delivery to the turnkey the sum of

£ S. D.

0 >3 4

0 5 0

0 2 6

0 2 6

0 >5 0

0 2 6

0 >3 4

0 2 6

0 2 6

0 1 6

0 0 6

0 0 6

0 , 0

1781. Michaelmas Session. Allowed in Court.

Vtrney.

By the Court.

William Uayton Cleric of the Peace for the County of Bucks.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

AYLESBURY. The rwo work-rooms, and the lodging-rooms, are small: one of the latter J-J- feet by 4, and' 6 feet high. A court in front only 8i feet wide, lately enclosed from the spacious court of the keeper’s behind the county gaol. Mr. Smith (the county gaoler) is keeper; salary, £30. Prisoners have from him one pound of bread a day. Fees, 4J. 6d. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1774, Nov. 12, Prisoners 2. 1779, Feb. 25, Prisoners 3.

1776, Jan. 3, - - 3. 1782, April 29, - - 2.

----- Nov. 2, - - 1.

O o

281

Avles-

BUR?

COVKTY

Gaol.

Bride-

wells.

NEWPORT

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit.

SlIDt-mi:

NEWPORT PAGNEL. Two cells in the back court of a public house, 7 feet by 61, and 6 feet high. The apertures in the doors 10 inches by 9. No water: no allowance: no employment. Keeper lives distant. Salary, £10. He pays two guineas rent for the cells.—The prisoners mult be almost fuifocated in hot weather, as the doors now open under a penthouse. A deserter lately went out who had been confined here a fortnight. From January 1780 to January 1781, here were committed twenty-nine prisoners. From January 4, 1782, to July 2, here were thirty-three; deserters included.

1779, March 24, Prisoners o.

Oft. 13, - T 0.

782, July 15, - O.

Nov. 2S, O.

'<V E S T-W Y C O M B. This prison was lately removed from High-Wycomb, and the-keeper was dismissed at the Michaelmas felTions 1778 for inattention. It consists of two garrets in the present keeper’s house. The windows are almost closed up by strong planks nailed across for security: his salary, £20.—In 1782 I found this prison again removed to High-Wycomb. It consists of two small rooms in the back court of the keeper’s public house, about 7 feet by 3, and 6 feet high: apertures in the doors: a court about 10 feet by 6: no water. Prisoners are here committed to bard labour.

i779i April 23, and 1782, June 2£, No prisoners.

BUCKINGHAM TO W N GAOL.

Two rooms below; one of which is the bridewell: the other for felons 16 feet by 12. Over these are rwo rooms for debtors. No water. Gaoler no salary. Keeper’s salary, £2. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.—Over the gate on a board is this inscription: “ The Right Honourable Richard Grenville “ Temple Lord Viscount Cobham caused this edifice to be erected at his own expense * for the use of this town and county: The summer assizes being restored to this " place and fixed here by act of parliament in the year 1748.”

1779, Oft. 14, No prisoners but a raving lunatic.

1782, April30, No prisoners.

BEDFORDSHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit.

BEDFORDSHIRE.

283

COUNTY GAOL at BEDFORD.

GAOLER, Thomas Howard.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, ">.

Felons, iL '

Transports, If only one, £6:

Licence, Beer.

17: 4-if two, £5 each:

all above two, £4 each.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, two quartern-loaves a week each.

Felons, two halfpeck-loaves a week each.

Garnish, Debtors, £0:5:0.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felon! Ac.

1773s - - 5 to IO> 6 to 9- 1782, July 17. 7. 3-

1776, Feb. 12, 8, 5. 1783, Sep. 7, 8, 9.

1779, Oft. 16, 7, i. Deserters 4.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Lloyd.

Duty, Sunday and Thursday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Gadsby.

£ 12 for the gaol and bridewell.

Bbofoud.

IN this prison there is on the first floor, a day-room for debtors, which is used as Remark*. a chapel, and four lodging-rooms: for felons, on the ground-floor, two day-rooms, one for men, and the other for women, without fire-places, and two cells for the condemned. The rooms are 8^ feet high: two dungeons, down eleven steps, one of them dark; the window of the other 18 inches by 12. Five pounds a year is allowed to the gaoler for straw, which is not on the floors, but on frames or bedsteads.

The justices in winter, upon application, grant coals both to debtors and feloris.

The court is common to both. No apartment for the gaoler.

Clauses of the act against spirituous liquors are not hung up. I was, when sheriff, culpably ignorant of that act. No infirmary nor bath. About twenty years ago the gaol-fever was in this prison: some died there, and many in the town; among whom was Mr. Daniel the surgeon, who attended the prisoners. His successor, Mr. Gadfly, judiciously changed the medicines from sudorifics (generally used before) to bark and cordials: and a fail-ventilator being loon after put up, the gaol has been free from the fever almost ever since.

This prison is kept very dean; but the act for preserving the health of prisoners is not hung up.

O O 2

Fees

BEDFORDSHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit.

284

Bed rot p F r 15 on a printed paper, signed by the late Gaoler as follows:

Cooett

All persons that come to this place, either by warrant, commitment, or verbally; must pay before discharged, fifteen Shillings and foor pence to the gaoler, and two shillings to the turnkey.

f. Richardjbn.

At my visit in 1782 there was a Table of Fees painted on a board.

Csnns, tf Bedford. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace holder* at the Town of Bedford in and for the fzid County of Bedford on Wednesday in the Week next after the Feafi of St, Michael the Archangel that is to say the third day of October in the twenty-first Year of the Reign of oar Sovereign Lord George the third by the grace of God of Great Britain France and Ireland K.ing Defender of the Faith and so forth and in the Year of our Lord One thousand Seven hundred and £ighty-oce before Sir Pbtltf Mtcsux Baronet William Gery John Kejbitt and John Miller junior Esquire* Hadley Car Henry Htude Peter Lepipre William Smith and John Hawkins Clerks Justices -'f our fiid Lord the King Assigned to keep the Peace in the said County and also to hear and determine divers Felonies Trrfpaffcs and other Misdemeanors in the said County committed; The following Table of Fees were perused settled and approved of to be taken by the Gaoler of the said County of Bedford but first to be submitted to the judges of Assize at the next Lent Assizes for their approbation.

Debtors Fees to Gaoler and his Turnkey.

For each debtor discharged to pay the gaoler ..

Of him for the fecood and every other action -

To the turnkey at the discharge of every debtor -

To him of every such debtor for the fecood and every other action For every debtor for each weeks lodging on the chapel fide the gaoler finding bed iheets and blankets - -: - -

If two lye together in the fame bed to take of each -

Of every debtor for chamber rent finding his own bedding and sheets, per week For a copy of every warrant of detaioer -

For a certificate for want of a declaration in order to take a writ offoperfeduu For a certificate in order to fee for a habeas corpus ..

For the entering every declaration delivered to the debtors in costody To the under-sheriff for his liberator to gaoler for the discharge of a debtor for each action .....

Ftlens Feet to Gaoler and his Turnkey.

To the gaoler for every prisoner lenteoced to be burned in the hand fined or imprisoned when discharged to pay .....

And to the turnkey for each .....

To the gaoler foi the discharge of every person committed for want of foreties of the peace, misdemeanor or any other crime not being felony ..

And to the turnkey for each .....

For a copy of every commitment if demanded ...

£. S. D. o 17 4

o 10 o 0 2 0 O I C

0 2 6 0 2 0 o 1 6

0 2 0 0 2 6 026 O I o

068

o 17 4

020

o 17 4

0 2 0

O 2 O

For

Norfolk Circuit.

BEDFORDSHIRE.

For a certificate of commitment in order to fne out a habeai eorput For attending in the town of Bedford with every prisoner in order to give bail or be otherways discharged ....

For the discharge of every prisoner committed for felony or on suspicion thereof and no bill of indictment found, or discharged on his or her trial, or delivered by proclamation, to be paid Out of the county rates ..

£. S. D.

o t 6

o o ° >3 4

John Nefiitt William Smith

7th March 1782

Jeremy Fish Palmer Clerk of the Peace of the County of Bedford.

Approved

James Eyre

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BEDFORD,

Consists of three rooms about 13 j feet by n^, on the ground-floor; no fire-place: the court 36 feet by 24; no water accefilble to the prisoners. Allowance to each a quartern-loaf every other day. The prison clean.—Keeper’s salary, £30-, now £20: no fees.

1776, Feb. 13, Prisoners 3.

1779, Oft. \6, 2.

1782, July 17, - - 4.

BEDFORD TOWN GAOL.

Two new rooms with fire-places. No apartment for the gaoler. No court: no water.

1779, Oft. 16, Prisoner o.

178a, July 17, - - 1.

285

Bedford

Covkt*

Gaol.

Bride-

well.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit.

286

COUNTY GAOL at HUNTINGDON.

Hrsiiic- GAOLER, Henry Blane, afterwards Roiert Nunn, now John Randall.

DO!C- Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0:12: 6.

Felons, o: 15: 10.

Transports, If only one, £12; if more, £9 each: he paying the clerk of assize a guinea for each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, four halfquartern-loaves a week.

Debtors, £0:2:6.

Gamifli, Debtors, 0:2:6.

Number, Debtors. Felon* fee. Debtors. Felons be.

,77J> Nov. j. 7, 4- 1776, Sep. 27, 6.

1774. 29. 7. 3- >779. —- 22, n> 14. DeserterS4,

177J, Nov. 9, 4. 5- 1782, May 4, 7> 6.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Brock. Now no Chaplain. (See Remarks.)

SURGEON, Mr. Hunt, now Mr. Perkins.

Salary, £5:5: o.

REWA«I!. THIS gaol is also the County Bridewell and Town Gaol.—For debtors, a day-room or kitchen; and over it a large lodging-room. Near it is a day-room for felons: and down 9 Heps a dungeon for men-felons; in which is a small condemned room. In another place, down 7 steps, is a dungeon for women-felons: the floor of it level with the court; in which is the bridewell. This has two rooms below for men; and two above for women. No chimneys. The prison and court are too small: but I always found the whole remarkably clean, except at my viftt in 1779. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. No infirmary. No bath. Salary for the bridewell, £24: 16: o; for the town gaol, £4.—Straw, £4: 16: o a year.

I was lorry to hear at my vitit in 1776, that Mr. Brock, the late chaplain, who officiated very conft3nrly twice a week, and had a salary of only £20, was dismissed. He would have continued his attendance, without the salary; but an order was made expressly forbidding it.

At the back of the prison a hemp-dresser has a small house, and also a salary of £11 a year, to find work for the prisoners in the bridewell, in beating hemp at three pence a Hone.

TABLE

Norfolk Circuit.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE.

387

TABLE OF FEES.

Huntingdon

Huntingdonjkirt. A Table of the antient accustomed Fees demanded taken and received time immemorial by the Gaoler for the rime being of his Majesty’s Gaol in the Town of Huntingdon and for the County of Huntingdon as well for Civil Prisoners as Criminal Prisoners.

As to Civil Prisoners, commonly called Debtors.

/ 5. D.

For the dismission fee for each debtor, to the keeper - - 0 10 0

For the like, to the turnkey - - - 0 2 6

For debtors bed per week ... - - 0 2 4

For the bed per week, if two debtors lie together - - 0 3 6

As to Criminal Prisoners.

For the dismission fee of each criminal prisoner discharged out of CUllody, either by

the magistrate, or by the courts of assize or fession - - - o 13 4

For the like to the turnkey - - . - - -026

For the bed per week to each fine, trespafTer, or felon - - - >.036

For the bed per week, if two lie together - - - - -048

County

Gaol.

Robert Nunn

Keeper of the County Gaol of Huntingdonshire Oft. 14, 1774*

There is a rasure, which cancels the name of the former gaoler Henry Blanc, and the date when he signed.—There is added, the date of the present gaoler’s coming into office. Oft. 6, 1778.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

288

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit.

COUNTT GAOL, CAMBRIDGE CASTLE.

Can- GAOLER, Simem Saunders.

i*idc£. Salary, ^12: 14: o.

Fees, Debtors, [o: 14: 8.

Felons, o: 10: 8.

Transports,£6: 6: o each: he paying the clerk of assize £ 1: 1: o for each. Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, two pence a day.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: s - 4-

Felons, 0:1:3.

Number, Debtors. Felons frc. Debtor*. Felons &c.

"773. Nov. 4, 8, 2. 1776, Sep. 27, 10, 0.

"774, Dec. ij. 6, 4. 779, Sep. 23> 21, 2.

1776, Feb. 9, 8, 6. 178a, Feb. 6, "5, 3-

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, Mr. Prince.

Salary, none; he makes a bill.

seuimi. THE prison is the gate of the old castle. On the ground-floor, called the low-gaol, are three strong rooms; one for men-felons (30 feet by 6 feet 7 inches): another for women (16 feet by 9) with a chimney: the other was not finished. There is an afeent of 22 (tone steps on the outlide to the debtors apartments, called the bigb-gaol. On the first Boor is a room for the turnkey; a large kitchen; and two or three other rooms. Above them are five rooms and a condemned room. All the rooms are lizeable.—Clauses of ad against spirituous liquors hung up, by a written order of Thomas Cochran, Esq. sheriff.—The act lor preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Straw, :oj. a year. The castle-yard is spacious, but not safe; and prisoners have not the use of it. In it is the gallows.

Debtors have some relief from legacies and donations paid by several colleges: from Sidney college, each has a Ihirt every year, and a sack of coals: from St. John’s, sixteen pennyworth of bread, every Saturday morning. A collection is made in the university and the town, by leave of the mayor, which amounts to about £j a year: and 20s. a year, deducting land-tax, is paid from an estate at Croxton in this county. No memorial in the gaol.

('jimbridgcjhirt -

Norfolk. Circuit.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

Cambridgeshire. The General Quarter Sessions of the Peace—held at the Shire-hall in Cambridge— the 19th—of April io the 5th year—of Geo. Ill—1765 Before Edward Leeds Hale Wortham and W« Howell Ewen Esqr* judices Sec.

A TABLE OF FEES

Settled—purfuant to a late Ad—pafled in the 2d—of Georce II Intituled, An Act for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors &c.—to be hung up publickly in the Prison of the Castle of Cambridge.

£. 5. D.

To the gaoler for the commitment fee to be paid at the time of commitment, only - 054

To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner to be paid at the time of his discharge,

only - .054

To the fheiiff for the discharge of every prisoner to be paid on such discharge - 020

To be paid for the weekly rent of an entire chamber, with one bed only, and clean linnen 020 And in case more prisoners are put into a. room, so that there is occasion for more beds in the fame chamber. Then there shall be paid for the use of the chamber, and of every bed and linnen and cloaths belonging to it the sum of - -016

Edward Leeds Hah Wortham lVm H Ewen.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at CAMBRIDGE

Is in the castle-yard; and joins to the gaoler’s house. It consists of two workrooms, and over them two rooms; one for men, with four cages 6f feet by 4- j and the other for women, with two cages. No court: no water accessible to prisoners: only one fewer, and that very offensive: no allowance: the prisoners have the profit of their work, which is beating hemp, and making mops. Mr. Saunders the county gaoler is keeper: salary, £1. He is attentive and humane.

1774, Dec. 13, Prisoners 4. 1779, Sep. 23, Prisoners 7.

1776, Feb. 9, - - 6. 1782, Feb. 6, - - 8.

----- Sep. 27, - 1.

There are also at CAMBRIDGE the

Town Gaol.. Below is a room for criminals, the bole; about at feet by 7. The prisoner, whom I saw there in 1776, was a miserable object: he had been confined some weeks: no allowance.—The prisoners receive relief from several of the colleges, viz. Si. John's, Trinity, Chri/l's, See.

Above are rooms for debtors and criminals, one of which is called the cage. No court: no water accessible to prisoners. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Gaoler no salary. Licence for beer.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1774, Dec. 13. 2. 3* »779> Sep. 23» «> 2.

1776, Feb. 9> 2.. 0. 1782, Feb. 7, 2, O.

1776, Sep. 28, 1, 1.

Pp A.

289

CAM-

BRIDGE

County

Gaol.

Bride.

WELL.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit.

XfO

C»M-

tlBCI

Towx

Gaol.

Aa Account of the Fes* that hare been anciently and custoaarily paid to the Gaoler or Keeper of the Tolbooth Prison in the Town of Cam&riJgt, vix.

For every debtor

The commitaent fee .....

The withdraoght or discharging fee which is paid afterwards to the mayor at every port For the care of the prisoner and chamber per week -

£ S. D.

o 6 8

O I o 026

The 17 January 176;

At the General Quarter SdSocs of the Peace held for the Town of Cambridge—We the J unices— of the said Town-Having reviewed the abovesaid Table of Fees, do allow and confirm the fame

fy lytifiiu. Mayor Edward Leeds Elias Sowjier

King JVbittrtd 1VW Norfolk W H Ewal

Town Bridewell. On the ground-floor, one room for men, 21 feet by 6; and rwo lodging-rooms for women, 9 feet by 5. In these are lately put bedsteads for draw or coverlets. There is a dungeon or dark room for the refractory. Above is a work-room 19 feet square, for women. In the spring 1779, seventeen women were confined in the day-time, and some of them at night, in this room, which has no fire-place or fewer. This made it extremely offensive, and occasioned a fever or iicknefs among them, which alarmed the Vice-chancellor, who ordered all of them to be discharged. Two or three died within a few days.—There are now added two rooms, in one of which are five cages about 7 feet square. There is a small court; no water.

The Vice-chancellor’s prisoners, have four pence on Sunday, to prevent the necessity of their working on that day as formerly. Those of them that are ill, have three pence a day. No allowance of bread for town prisoners. Keeper’s salary, £30: no fees. Straw, £1: 1: o a year.

The bridewell (lands in the back yard of the keeper’s house which was bought and endowed for the encouragement of wool-combers and spinners of this town. The basis of the institution was a legacy of the famous carrier Thomas Hohjmi, who died 163c. To answer the intention, the keeper appointed is a wool-comber. He employs not only several hands upon the foundation of the charity, but many others, among them his prisoners. His salary is paid out of the charity.

1774, Dec. 13, Prisoners 3. 1779, Sep. 23, Prisoners 6, and one lunatic.

1776, Sep. 22, - - 7. 1782, Feb. 7, - - 3.

ELY

Norfolk Circuit.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

291

ELY GAOL.

GAOLER, John Atid&j.

Salary, none. Ga”

Fees, Debtors, £0 15; 3,

Felons, 0: 13: 4.

Transports,£j each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, Felons, none.

Gamilh, £0:1: 4-

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtor*. Felon* Bec.

»774, Jan. 30, 6, O. 1776, Sep. 28, 7. i-

Dec. 13, 1. 2. 1779, Sep. 23, 7, 1. Lunatic 1

*776> Feb. 9, II, 3- 1782, Feb. 6, 4, 2.

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, none.

THIS gaol, the property of the bilhtfp, who is lord of the franchise of the isle Rem,-,* of Ely, was in part rebuilt by bishop Mtnvfm in 1768, upon complaint of the cruel method which, for want of a safe gaol, the keeper took to secure his prisoners.

For master’s-Iide debtors three rooms up Hairs: a room on the fame floor for condemned felons. Below stairs is the felons day-room; and their cell or night-room, 8 i feet by 10, with a window about a foot square. There is a court for felons, with an offensive fewer. No water.—For debtors a court with a pump; but no free ward. No infirmary. No straw. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up. Keeper, a sheriff’s officer for the isle, and for the county of Cambridge. No table of fees.

Assize in this isle, of late, twice a year, viz. Lent at Ely, Summer at Wisbech.

’ This was by chaining them down on their backs upon a floor, across which were several iron bars; with an iron collar with spikes about their necks and a heavy iron bar over their legs. An excellent magistrate, Jumn Coilyir, Esq. presented an account of the case, accompanied with a drawing, to the king; with which his majesty was much affected, and gave immediate orders for a proper inquiry and redress.

At

2$2

CAMBRIDGESHIRE.

Norfolk Circuit.

£lt.

Bi i ds-

n-ius.

At my last vilit, the debtors and felons were together.* One of the former was confined for jr. $\d. the charges 8s. $d. another, who had a wife and five children, only for costs 4,t. 9d. and gaol-fees jr. 6 d.-f

BRIDEWELLS.

ELY. This prison (built 1651) consists of one room below for men (16 feet by 1 j feet inches); and two above for women. No water accessible to prisoners; prison out of repair. No court; one might be made from the keeper’s large garden. In February 1776, a woman sick: no apothecary. No allowance. Clauses of aS against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £10: no fees.

1774, Dec. 13, Prisoners 2. 1779. Sep. 23, Prisoners 2.

1776, Feb. 9, - - 3. 1782, Feb. 6, - - 3.

--- Sep. 28, 1.

WISBECH. This is also a gaol. There is a descent to it of 5 steps. Two rooms below (the work-room ij feet by 12), and two above. No court: no water accessible to prisoners. Allowance, a penny a day: straw, twenty shillings a year. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £16: no fees.—This prison might be improved on the keeper’s garden.

1776. Feb. 3, Prisoners O

779. March 29, Debtors

Oft. 10, - I

1782, Feb. 4. - I.

Impressed Men 3.

Felon &c. - 1.

Deserter - 1. Lunatic 1.

An unhappy debtor may be an honed man t but, ‘ ‘ Evil ctmmmmeatittu ccrrvft goad manner I.'1

+ By an 1& for the more easy and speedy recovery of fmjll debts, within the 1JI1 of Ely, in the county of Cambridge. 1778.

NORFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

NORFOLK.

S93

COUNTY GAOL, NORWICH CASTLE.

GAOLER, George Gynne.

Salary, none: he pays the under-sheriff £31: 10: o per annum. Fees, Debtors, £0: 7:8.

Felons, o: 13:4!

Transports, - 5:15:6 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, ?a two-penny loaf each per day (weight in 1774, and 1782, Felons, i 20oz.)-, and every week in common a stone of cheese: in winter twelve buihels of coals, in summer fix bushels.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 5: 0.

Felons, 0: 1: 0.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons Sec.

1774, Feb. 1, 30, *4* 776> Nov. 7. 18, 32.

— Dec. 10, 16, s- 779. March 24. 29.

1776, Feb. 5, 29, 16. 1782, July 6, 2f. 23-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Willins, Duty, Friday.

Salary, £30.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Palgrave, Mr. Brown, now Mr. Rigby.

£40.

THE cattle is situated on the summit of a hill. That part which is called the upper gaol, has ten rooms for master’s-fide debtors; and leads for them to walk on. The low gaol has several rooms for debtors, felons &c. A small area in the middle of the gaol, in which are made some improvements; such as a pump, a bath, and some rooms over it. There is a dungeon down a ladder of 8 steps, for men-felons; in which has been sometimes an inch or two of water: here are now barracks and mats. Only a small room for women-felons j and they cannot be separate from the men, when decency would most of all require it. There are three airy rooms for the sick; so distinct from the rest of the prison, that there is no danger of spreading any infection from thence. The gaoler is humane, and respected by his prisoners. These, felons as well as debtors, fell at the grates of their separate day-rooms, laces, garters, purses, nets, &c. of their own making.

There is a nurse or matron to attend the sick; and provide for them, when the surgeon orders it, broth, gruel, milk-pottage and extra-firing. It is also her

business

Norwich.

Remarks.

NORFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

:V+

Nomvjch Cash i.

business to fee that the prisoners be duly served with their allowance of bread, which is remarkably good. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. At Lent assize, prisoners are moved from hence to Thetford;* and put into a dungeon which is described in that place. In 1779, twenty-seven prisoners, and in 1782, eighteen were carried thither, and confined four nights, most of them in the dungeon.

Mrs. Francis Kempi formerly bequeathed certain charities to the poor of Norwich and Hcyden; and a stipend for preaching three sermons a year. For payment, Ihe bound an estate in Heyden left her by her father John Mingay, Esq. Among the charities were some to prisoners in this castle, and in the city gaol. These have for fomc years past received nothing; although the legacies are paid to the other objects.

TABLE OF FEES.

Serfoli. A Take of the Rates Fees and allowances to be—taken by every Gaoler Or Keeper of any Gad er Pri/n within the said County—settled—at the General Qparter Session—holden by Adjournment at the Castle of Norwich— 31 July—3d of George II—1729—in purfuance—of a late Ad—for Relief of Debtors &c. That is to say

£ S. D.

For the commitment or coming into gaol of any prisoner for deb;

For chamber rent where the gaoler finds bedding and linnen, and a prisoner hath a bed to him or herself, /er «eek ....

Where there are two in a bed not exceeding fer week -

Wheie there are three in a bed not exceeding fer week each prisoner

For the discharge of those in execution ....

For the discharge of thoic upon cuslawry ...

For the discharge of those npoo (txmen frutjs ...

030

oao o 1 6

006

o 5 4

054 028

Wp his Majesty's Indices of the Peace—have hereunto set oar hands—the day and year above written

31 July 1739 Confirmed by us Jams Reynolds IV* Brunthwape R. Bacon

Allies Brantbivayte

fV* Bacon Edmd Bacon Tom* Turner

Miles Branthwayte

Here I would just mention the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, built in 1771, as being one of the best of our county hospitals. The wards are lofty; there is only one floor up stairs; the bedsteads are iron, and they are not crowded. The beds are straw, the furniture linen; and there are no tellers. The wards are kept clean by frequent washing, and airy by the oppoflte windows being generally open. There are Dutch stoves in the wards in summer, and little coppers for tea water, with which the patients are sometimes properly indulged. There is a fine area enclosed, in which the patients walk. There is no washing, brewing nor baking in this house.

See iail note m sage 13.

COUNTY

Norfolk Circuit;

NORFOLK.

a 95

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

S W A F F H A M. Three rooms below; one of which, a lodging-room for men, is too close (10 feet 9 inches by 7 feet 9 inches): a work-room, 17 feet by 15, but no employment: and four rooms above. Court enlarged, now 28 feet square, but no pump. A window in the keeper’s kitchen which overlooked the court is improperly flopped up: the prisoners are confined to their rooms. Keeper’s salary, £16 and twenty shillings a year for straw. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up: licence for beer. Surgeon, Mr. Say: he makes a bill.

1774, Dec. 11, Prisoners 7.

1776, Feb. 3, - - 5, with a lunatic.

779, March29, - - 11, 7 including the lunatic.

782, Feb. j, - - j,

Bride-

wells.

WYMUNDHAM. A day-room; with three closets on one fide of it, for night-rooms, about 6 feet by 4. A prisoner complained to me of being obliged to lie in one of these closets, with two boys who had a cutaneous disorder. There is another room for women, in which, at my visit in 1779, there were four dirty and sickly objects at work with padlocks on their legs, though they are never out in the court except on Sundays. The very small quantity of straw on the floor was worn almost to dust. There is a dungeon down eight steps with the flocks in it. It is 15! feet by 8, and 6 feet high; now arched with brick; a dirt floor; has two apertures at the top, of a foot diameter. The justices seem to have overlooked a clause in a late act of parliament (14th Geo. III. Chap. XLIII.) “ to prevent the prisoners from being kept under ground, whenever they can do it conveniently,” as there is abundant room on the pre-miles. Neither the rooms nor the spacious court secure. Prisoners in this bridewell are not only confined within doors, but generally in irons. Keeper's salary, /16: no fees. Allowance to those suspected of felony, four pence a day. Straw, ,£1:1:0 a year. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Nov. 17, Prisoners $.

1779, March 30, - - J.

1782, July 6, - - 9.

A YLSH AM. In the floor of the work (or day) room is a trap-door into a dungeon, which is 94- feet by 6. Above stairs are three rooms, not secure. No fireplace: no straw: court not secure; prisoners in it only on Sundays: no water: no fewer: no implements for work: no allowance, but two pennyworth of bread a day to vagrants. Keeper’s salary, £ 13: 6: 8.

1779, April 1, Prisoners 4.

ACLE.

NORFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

296

Bude.

WILIS.

SoiWlCR.

Rsuaec;

ACLE. A day-room, and two rooms over it. Down nine steps are two dark dungeons, 8 feet by 5 feet 10 inches. This prison is quite out of repair. The date on it is 1633. No court: keeper has a spacious garden: no water accessible to prisoners: no allowance: no draw. Keeper's salary, £t6.

1779, April 2, and 1782, July 7, No prisoners.

WALS INGHAM. A room 15 feet by 8 in the keeper's court, with two dark lodging-rooms about 7 feet square, and draw on the brick floors. The walls of

the court not secure. Prisoners in irons. Clauses against spirituous liquors

not hung up. Keeper's salary, £13: 6: 8. Fees, 21.

1779> Oct- I0t Prisoners 2.

NORWICH CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Benjamin Fakenbam, now his H^tdo-do.

Salary, none: die pays the sheriffs £4.0 a year. Fees, Debtors, £0: 6: 8.

Felons, o: 13: 4.

Transports, - 5:5:0 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 7 a two-penny loaf each: in 77G, it was reduced toapenny Felons, J loaf; in 1779, 12cz. of bread; in 1782, 1402.

Garnish, £0:1: O.

Number, Debtor*. Fdons Bee.

»77+> Feb. «. S3> 7-

Dec. 10, 7> S-

1776, Feb. 5, 7-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Buckle.

Duty, Prayers, once a fortnight

Salary, £20.

Debtor*. Felon* &c.

*776. Nov. 17, »«> to.

,779» Marchji, I9» 5-

1782, July 6, 16, ' 5-

sermon one Tuesday in a month.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Matcbett, now Mr. Ktymer. £5:5:0 for debtors and felons.

ONLY one court. Many rooms for mader’s-fide debtors. One room for common-Cde debtors, who are freemen. There is none for those who are not free, but the felons day-room j which is a damp room under the other, and down 13 steps: in

this

Norfolk Circuit.

NORFOLK.

297

this I found in 1782, one or two court of conscience debtors.* The felons dungeons, or night-rooms, are down eleven steps one of them quite dark j the other almost so. The women’s dungeon down ten steps, has a fire-place: but at my late visits they had another night-room, about ioi feet by and but 5 feet high. Straw was only £ I: 1: o a year, but now £1: 10: o.—Coals two chaldron. The keeper’s liable adjoining to the last room, would make the women a good day-room; for there is no proper separation, which is peculiarly necessary in those places where the assize is but once a year.—The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

In 1779 there were many alterations. The court paved j and some old sheds, that were in it, taken down. Three night-rooms or cells for felons, about three feet below the ground, eight feet square, planked all over. A bath, but not convenient: and over it two rooms for debtors. Over them two airy rooms for the sick (each 22 feet by 16, and near 12 feet high), with iron bedsteads, and bedding.

Gaol-delivery once a year: three prisoners were confined from eight to ten months before their trial} as two were committed November 6, 177S, and one woman August 22, 1778.

TABLE OF FEES.

City of Norwich and County of the fame City. At the General Quarter Sessions—holden at the Guild Hall —5th October in 53d year—of George II —and—adjourned to the 16th —of the fame Oftober—before Nockold Tompson Esq. Mayor—Edward Bacon Esq. Recorder—Robert Marsh Esq. &c. &c. —Justices of the Peace—It is Ordered by this Court in pursuance of an Act for Relief of Debtors —That the fevetal Fees—hereunder written, and no other or greater Sums—Hull be—taken by any Gaoler or Keeper of any—Prison within the—City of Norwich— (That is to say)

*>

For the.commitment or coming into gaol of any prisoner for debt - "03

For chamber-reni where the gaoler finds bedding and linnen where a prisoner has a bed to

himself or herself, by the week - - - . -01

Where there are two in a bed not exceeding by the week each - - o o

Where there are three in a bed not exceeding by the week each - -00

I\.r the discharge of those in execution - - - -05

For the discharge of those upon outlawry - - - - -05

l or the discharge of those upon common preccft - - - o 3

D.

4

o

9

5

4

4

4

Wo his Majesty’s justices of the Peace—for the said City of Norwich have hereunto—fet our hands— Nockold Tompfin, Mayor Ed. Bacon John Nut hall

J. Spurred Peter Colombine Jcrcm Ives

Confirmed and allowed at the Assize and general Gaol Delivery of our Lord the King held in and for the City of Norwich and County of the fame City. The Twenty-ninth day of July One Thousand Seven Hundred and Sixty By us

T: Parker T: Dennison.

By an act for the city of Norwich, 12 and 13 of William III, 1701. Court of Conscience debtors arc to remain without bail or mainprize, until he ihe or they perform and obey the Order of the saidCOUTC; which act is similar to that for London. Sec page 229.

Norwich ClT v C.\ ni,.

NORWICH

NORFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

293

NotWICR

NORWICH CITY BRIDEWELL.

Four rooms, 21 feet square and 10 high, with fire-places, and two warehouses for wood.—The dungeons are down 15 steps: in one part, four for the men; and in another part, three, more close and damp, for the women. In these, and in the other rooms, are cribs. But it is to be hoped the gentlemen, who have made many improvements in their gaol, will be so coqfiderate as to order these cells to be barred to all, unless to such as are very refractory and disobedient.—Only one court; river, and pump water. Allowance two pennyworth of bread daily, two hot dinners in a week, and firing from-Michaelmas to Lady-day. The lick have four pence a day and firing when wanted. Employment, cutting logwood, of which in 1782, there were IJ or 16 ton in the warehouses. This employment is too laborious and severe, where most of the prisoners are women.—Keeper’s salary, £25.

1774, Dec. 10, Prisoners 3. 1779, March31, Prisoners 7.

1776, Feb. J, - - 5- >782. July 6. - - 4-

THETFORD TOWN GAOL

Is also the town bridewell. The ground-floor for the keeper. On the first story, are four rooms for debtors; and two for delinquents. For felons, a dungeon

down a ladder of 10 steps; 18 feet by 9f, and 9 feet high: a window 18 inches

by 14; and an aperture about 2 feet square, lately opened into the passage.

At assize once a year, from sixteen to twenty prisoners brought hither from Norwich castle are confined in this dungeon four or five nights. Keeper no salary.

Licence for beer.—At my last visit, here was an inscription; “ This gaol was

repaired and enlarged in the mayoralty of William Holmes, Esq. 1781.” The new part consists of one large room and two over it. A court and pump. A table of fees, &c. is now hung up, but not signed.

1774, Dec. 9, Pri loner 1. 1779, Sep. 24, Prisoner 1.

1776, Nov. 18, - - o. 1782, July 6, - - o.

Tbetferl.

A Table of Fees to be taken in this Gaol.

On the coming in of a debtor, no gamilh to be paid.

If the debtor is farnished with a bed, to pay for it per week If two lie in one bed -

If he finds his own bed -

Searching file for warrant -

For delivery of any declaration against debtor or any other proceeding

£. S. D.

o 1 o 016 000 000 010

For

Norfolk Circuit.

NORFOLK.

*99

£. S. D.

For copy of every warrant ....

To the gaoler’s certificate for supersedeas ...

On the discharge of every debtor if on one execution or mesne process If on two -----

Turnkey -----

Bed per week each felon ....

.If two He in one bed ....

For dtfmission of each felon or criminal prisoner, discharged either by a magistrate the court of assize or fefEon ...

Rales and Orders to be observed.

Each felon is allowed one penny per day at the expence of the town, and each debtor the fame. A clergyman to attend the felons while under sentence of death. Debtors and felons are to wash themselves every day, and are to be let into the yard where a trough is fixed with fresh water for that purpose. And they arc to sweep and sprinkle their rooms every morning.

- 0 I 0

O I o

o 6 8

o ij 4

o o o

- 009

- 0x6 or by

000

Thetford.

YARMOUTH Town Gaol. Besides the gaoler's house, in which are four rooms for master's-fide debtors, there are for all the prisoners, only a small day-room and court j and two or three lodging-rooms for such as pay for them: three dungeons or night-rooms down a ladder of 10 steps. Allowance, a penny loaf a day (weight in February 1776, i%oz. in July 178a, 91-cz.), and four chaldron of coals a year. The corporation fends out a begging-basket three times a week.—Gaoler's salary, £15: licence for beer and wine. Table of fees now hung up. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

1776, Feb. 6, Debtors 6, Felons &c. 14.

1779> April 3, - - 4, - - - 4.

1782, July 8, - - 4, --- 2.

Great Yarmouth. A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of this Burgh pursuant to

Assembly, A.D. 1671.

For the commitment release and discharge of every prisoner ..

For the garailh of every prisoner

For every prisoner that will diet with the gaoler, for ctcjy meal he takes For every prisoner lodging in the common chamber, finding his own bed for evtry night For every prisoner lodging in the common chamber in the gaoler’s bed for every night For every prisoner lodging in the private chambei finding his own bed for every night For every prisoner lodging in the private chamber in the gaoler’s bed for every night For every freeman lodging in the free-room for every week ..

For going abroad with a prisoner every time -

For the key turning for every prisoner being an inhabitant of this town for every week For the key turning for every other prisoner for every week -

For every prisoner committed upon any action except actions of debt to be payed upon his discharge out of the prison whereof he is to pay to the mayor if sureties be given

Q.q*

an Order of

£* s. z>.

0 0 8

0 0 6

0 I 0

0 0 1

0 0 2

0 0 z

0 0 4

0 0 6

0 0 6

0 0 4

0 0 8

0 0 4

And

NORFOLK.

Norfolk Circwit.

V 2> mouth.

I. s. D.

And in such case to the clerk of the coart - - - >004

And to the serjeant - . _ . . - -006

But if the action be agreed to the clerk of the court - - - - o o 2

For the withdrafts of the court in every action agreed - - - -006

Except actions of debt for which they are to compound with Mr. Mayor or pay 1 s. for every zos.

For CTcry grand jury or petty jury keeping - - - 004

For goods attached and brought to the town-hall the party plaintiff to pay as he can agree with the gaoler.

For every person whipped at the sessions - - - - -004

For every one branded - - - - 010

For every one executed - - - - -068

YARMOUTH Tows- Bridewell. In the work-house yard. Four rooms; a fire-place in one of them. A small court, to which prisoners have no access. No fewer: no water. Court of conscience debtors sometimes confined here, and discharged in three calendar months: by the act (1758) they may be carried “ either to the common gaol, or house of correction. ”

1776, Feb. 6, Prisoners o.

‘779. April 3. - - °.

178:, July 8, Debtor 1, Petty Offender 1.

LYNN REGIS Towv Gaol. The rooms for debtors, felons and petty offenders arc convenient, and were clean at my first visit. Cribs with straw and two coverlets for the felons: the court is small, and has fowls kept in it. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up. Gaoler’s salary, £20-. fees, debtors jr. 4*/. felons &c. 5 s. per table, dated ill of March, 1729: signed, John Good'wyit, mayor, Thomas Bsrvey, recorder.

By the A3 1770, court of conscience debtors shall remain in confinement for ro

longer space than three calendar months.

Debtors. Felons &e. Debtors. Felons &c.

17-4, Dec. 11, 1, o. 1779, Oft. 9, 3, 2.

1-79, March 29, 3, 4- 1782, Feb. 4, 4, 2.

SUFFOLK.

Norfolk Cfrcuit.

SUFFOLK.

COUNTY GAOL at IPSWICH.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Rowland Baker, now John Ripjbaw. none.

Debtors, ? ,

Felons, S

Transports, £6:6:0 each; he paying clerk of assize £1:1:0 for each. Licence, Beer and Wine.

Ifswich

Co: 10: 8.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, two pence a day in bread (weight in Dec. 1774, 18\oz. July 1782, 20oz.).

Garnish, Debtors, £0:2:6.

Felons, 0:1:0.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons Ac.

1774, Feb. 3, 22, 14. 1776, Nov. 18, 6.

Dec. 7, »s. s 1779, April 5, 24, 23-

1776, Feb. 7, 29. >7- 1782, July 9, 27. 10. Deserter 1

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Brome.

Duty, Sunday and Friday. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £jo.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Buck.

£40 for debtors and felons.

THIS is also the town gaol: yet only one court-yard.—For debtors, a kitchen, Rema or day-room; and several chambers: one of these is lately made a free ward.—

For felons a day-room: and for the men a (Irong night-room; with beds well contrived for cleanliness and health. Each prisoner has a crib-bedstead, 10 or 11 inches high; the head raised a few inches , strong feet, low fides. These are easily moved when the ward is to be waihed. The county allows to each crib a straw bed, and a blanket.—The women have no separate day-room: and their ward, or night-room, has no fire-place.—One of the two drinking-rooms is called the garnish-room.

—Two rooms for the lick; not distinct enough from the rest. No bath. Debtors weave in hand-frames, like those at Lincoln, good garters, &c. and make purses, nets and laces which they fell at the front grate. I found this close prison clean, though full of prisoners. The water from the pump is conveyed through the sewers, which prevents the court-yard, which is final], from being offensive.

In

i

SUFFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

If jft'iCH Corsrr G AOl.

In the centre of the cieling of a neat chapel lately built, is an aperture covered by a small turret, which keeps the room airy and pleasant. (All prison chapels should be thus supplied with fresh air.*) Mr. Bromi, the chaplain, does not content himself merely with the regular and punctual performance of his dated duty; he is a friend to the prisoners on all occasions.

Assize always at Bury: there is now an allowance to the gaoler for conveying prisoners thither. Gaoler, a sheriff’s officer. The act for preserving the health of prisoners is not hung up.

Debtors have on Sunday from a legacy of Mr. John Pemberton, each i\lb. of beef for broth, a penny loaf, and a pint of ale. The following memorial of this kind donation is now hung up in the chapel.

July 17, 1780.

At this, the annual meeting of the trustees of Mr. Pemberton's charity, it is ordered, that the treafuter should proride as the troftees shall lee nt, for the debtors imprisoned in any of the jails in the county of Smffiii, either for their relief therein, by a proportion of bread, meat, and beer, as he shall think neceilhry, or for the delivering them oat of prison, until the treasurer shall receive farther orders.—. Nevertheless, such debtors in lf/rxreb jail, as do not regnlarly attend divine service (unless prevented by sickness, or tome reasonable cause, to be allowed of by the chaplain), and behave decently and reverently. Stall not have any benefit or allowance from this charity.

Trustees,

Geo. Drury, Lott Knight. Pb. B. Broobe. Edtvd. Hafell.

From another legacy the town supplies them with five chaldron of coals yearly. No memorial of this in the gaol.

TABLE OF FEES.

Sufdit to nr*'/. At the General Quarter Sessions—holden by Adjournment at Bury St. Edmunds— Joly—1729* A Table of Fees settled by the Justices of the said Division—purfuant to a late Act —for the Relief of Debtors Sec. at the assize for the County of Sujfoli—zt Burp St. Edmunds the 24th day of Jnly 1729.

£ s. D.

To the gaoler for the commitment fee and discharge of every person - - O 12 X

Out of which is to be paid to the sheriff - - O 2 0

To the officer - - - O 2 0

For the rent of every chamber weekly - - - 0 2 6

Cullum G- Golding Jertnyn Davers M. Shelton.

I h^re r:\:cw:d this Table of Fees and do think proper to moderate and reduce the fame to f killings an3 eight pence by disallowing the two shillings to be paid to the Officer and deducing six pence ?,* week out of the Chamber-Rent

Tho. Penghu, y.

Sec Prieftlty's Experiments, ISe. p. 281.

t Erased.

COUNTY

Norfolk Circuit.

SUFFOLK.

3®3

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

IPSWICH. On the ground-floor is a workshop; and a night-room for men: up stairs a night-room for women. None of them, nor the court secure.' Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper, a worsted manufacturer: salary, £17. No fees. Prisoners, no allowance. Employment, spinning worsted, and turning a twisting-mill.

The above was the state of the prison in 1776, but at my visit in 1779, I found it greatly improved. The two work-rooms and chambers now are 20 feet by 14. The court 40 feet by 34.

1774, Dec. 8, Prisoners 1. 1779, April 5, Prisoners o.

1776, Feb. 7, - - 3. 1782, July 9, - - 2.

.... Nov. 18, - - 2.

WOODBRIDGE. Two rooms, lately enlarged, 28 feet by 16: in these are beds and bedding: the lower one is 9 feet high. To each are three windows and a fire-place. The court is also enlarged out of the keeper’s garden, and made secure. Salary, £13. Prisoners allowance, two pence a day. No firing r no water: no employment.

1776, Feb. 7, Prisoners 9.

1779, April 4, - - 1.

1782, July 9, - - 4.

BECCLES. A room on the ground-floor, called the ward, a chamber for women, called the upper ward, a day-room with a fire-place; and a dungeon 7 steps under ground. In the ward is a window to the llreet which is highly improper, as I have always seen numbers of idle persons crowding about it. No proper separation of the men and women. Only one court. The keeper has a large garden.—Salary, £11: 10: 0. Licence for beer (a riotous alehouse). Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Fees, 6s. id. Allowance, a two-penny loaf a day (weight, July 9, 1782, iooz.). Thirty shillings a year for straw. £5 a year for coals. When prisoners work they have half the profit.

1776, Feb. 6, Prisoners 3.

1779, APril 2. - - 9.

1782, July 8, - - 15.

At my visit in 1779, the keeper Ihewed me an old table of fees on parchment,

which I here copy.

Bride-

wells.

The

SUFFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

3<H

Becclzs. The Gaoler's Fits for the County of'Sajfilk agreed upon 29 of March 1676 by the Justices of the

Peace underwritten.

IrrfriTBs for every person committed in coart ...

Icx for e\ cry person committed oat of court ...

Item for every person committed upon warrant or procef. ..

Item for every person committed upon execution ...

Item to the turnkey ......

Item (or every person upon his acquittal for felony ...

Item for every person committed upon outlawry -

Item for ever;, prisoner lodging in the gaoler’s bed for every night taking no diet in the house - . 1

Taking diet ... ...

if he find his own bed and take diet ....

If he take no diet - - ...

Item for every prisoner that is not a felon that will go into the watd and Ive there for every night ......

Item if two lye in one bed and take diet in the hoafe for both ..

If they take no diet

For the two belt chambers in the house as they can agree.

£ s. D.

O 1

O 3 4

O 3 4

O 6 3

O 1 0

O 6 3

O 10 c

O O 6

O 0 4

O 0

O 0 4

O 0

O 0 6

O 0

Henry Felton Anthi. Gawdy The1. Edgar

Rob*. Brake Tho1. Bacon Charles Milton

Tho Smith Tbs1, Bade

Ex per Re. Clarke V. C. P. Csm.

Since allowed by the Judges at the Affixes at Burr.

B«jde-

W s L L

LAVF.NHAM. A work-room below: a chamber for men; only one room for women: none of them lecure. The prison is out of repair. At a former visit I heard that a prisoner had escaped, for which the keeper was fined, though the negletS lay in the magistrates. Two more, lately escaped through the pi after wall. Pril'oners always kept within doors; the court not secure: no water: no straw. Keeper’s salary, £15: 14: S. No fees. Employment, spinning wool. There is no prorcr reparation of female prisoners. An old out-houie and liable of the keeper’s m: :ht be made convenient for them.—At my last visit, I found the magistrates bad fe-.! :o lie keeper a number of thumb-Jcrexs for securing prisoners.

1776, Nov. 18, Prisoners

1779. April 6, 3. Imprcfled Men

Sep. 25» " " O*

17^:, July IO, - I.

5-

CLARE. A work-room. Two lodging-rooms with boarded bedsteads. No chimneys. The work-room close glazed, and made offensive by a closet in it. No court. Prisoners have no access to the well of fine water. The prison is

thatched,

Norfolk Circuit. SUFFOLK.

thatched, the walls are clay, but the men’s lodging-room boarded; and the whole of it is ruinous: the prisoner in 1776, a woman, at work, in irons. No allowance. Each prisoner pays a penny a day for straw, &c. Keeper a weaver: salary, £13: 13: 4: no fees. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. At my first visit in 1779, the three prisoners, though they were women, had each a heavy chain, and the two imprefied men had chains and logs. No justices have visited this prison for many years.

1776, Dec. 6, Prisoner 1.

1779, April 6, 3. Impressed Men 2.

--- Sep. 25, - - 1.

1782, July 10, o.

MILDENHALL.* Two rooms, the lower ioi feet by 10, and the upper 12 feet by 8. No fire-place: no court: no fewer. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.—The prison is ruinous; not secure: keeper has a garden: his salary £10: no fees.

1779, Sep. 24, Prisoner o. 1782, Fetf. j, Prisoner 1.

IPSWICH Town Bridewell, Is in the bridewell hospital for boys. Two rooms 17 feet by io|. No fire-place.

1782, July 10, No prisoners.

BURY St. EDMUND’S GAOL.

This prison for the franchise or liberty of Bury St. Edmund’s, is the property of Sir Charles Davers. The court is spacious, but not secure: at my visit in 1779, they were repairing it, and making it secure by ehevaux de frise: none had the use of it without paying a shilling a week. On one fide of it are several rooms for debtors: one of them is a work-room. On the other fide, is a large dungeon down three steps s which is the day and night-room for felons: the men are chained to staples fixed in the barrack-bedsteads. No straw. There is another dungeon down a step or two; seldom used. No proper reparation of men and women-felons. The late gaoler told me that in the winter of 1773, five died of the small-pox. No apothecary then;

The work-house, or house of industry for this parish, situated near the church, was one of the cleaned I ever saw. Here were upwards of forty persons at my first visit, and at my last visit sixty-nine, whose countenances bespoke their satisfaction and the attention paid to them. If all the parities had been as careful to promote deanliness and industry in their own work-houses, there would have been no occasion for parishes uniting in houses of industry, most of which 1 have visited in this and the adjoining county*

R r but

305

Bride-

wells.

SUFFOLK.

Norfolk Circuit.

306

!«r. but one is appointed fincej salary £4o. No infirmary: no bath: ait for preferring the health of prisoners not hung up. A chaplain; and prayers twice a week: falaiy, £50. Keeper, no salary: fees, debtors 8 s. 8 d. felons 6s. 8 d. A table of fees is new hung up, the fame as in the county gaol at Ipswich. Licence for beer and wine. I always found a number of people drinking, as at a common alehouse. Allowance, debtors none, felons a three-penny loaf every other day (weight, July 1782, 2lb. 6oz.) , and from the jth of November to the Saturday before Lady-day, felons have two bufkels of coals a week, and debtors four; both from a legacy of which no memorial in the gaol. In a Description of Bury printed 1771, there is an account of several ancient donations and bequests to prisoners. Whether they be now totally funk, or the coals be from some of them, 1 cannot say.—A poor widow of eighty years of age, committed March 6, 1780, for a fine of £5, was here at my last vilit.

At aifize, twice a year, prisoners of both sexes brought from Ipswich, are confined lour or fire nights in the dungeon here described.

Debtors. Felons&c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1774. Dec- 9> IO* «5- >779» APril 5» l8> 5-

1776, Feb. 8, 11, 18. 1782, July 10, 16, 11.

-----Nov. 18, 5, 6.

BURY Bridewell. This, it is said, was in former times a Jewish synagogue. It has a large work-room; a room for men, and another for women; all up stairs, and out of repair. A small court (13 feet by 9): no water. Keeper’s salary £6; and four pence for each prisoner’s straw: fees, one shilling.

1774, Dec. 9, Prisoners 2. 1779, April j, Prisoners 2.

1776, Feb. 8, - - 1. 1782, July 10, - - o.

----- Nov. 18, - 1.

SUDBURY Gaol and Bridewell. Has for debtors a day-room with a fireplace j and two little rooms for them to lodge in, about 7 feet by 5 each. A room for men-criminals, with a fire-place and a loom: another for women; this also has a fire-place. A court, not secure; and the water not accessible to prisoners. They have no allowance. Keeper, no salary: fees, 4J. no table. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Dec. 6, Prisoners o.

'779> S«P- 25» ' °-

WARWICK-

Midland Circuit.

WARWICKSHIRE.

307

COUNTY GAOL at WARWICK.

GAOLER, William Roe.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 14: 6.

Felons, o: 13: 4.

Transports,£8: o: o each, he paying clerk of affize/i: x: o for each. Licence to turnkey for beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Number, Felons, a loaf of 3lb. every other day. £0: 2: 6. Debtors. Felons See. Debtors, Felons &c.

*77 3> Nov. 22, 23, 9 1776, Oft. 30, 22, 7-

1774. 1 1 1 1 1 O u> 13- 1779, Mar. 26, 22, 28.

1776. CHAPLAIN, Jan. 6, 24, Rev. Mr. Muffett. 33- 1782, May 1, 3*. II.

Duty, Sunday and Friday. (See Remarks.)

Saiary, £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Weale.

.Salary, /20 for gaol and bridewell.

ONE court for debtors, and men-felons. Women-felons have a separate court, day-room, and two small night-rooms (7 feet 10 inches by 6 feet 8), aperture only 7 inches by 6. They used to be loaded with irons; qow they have none. Men-felons have a day-room: their night-room is in an octagonal dungeon about 21 feet diameter, down 31 Heps; damp, and offensive: the gaoler on going down took a preservative. Two cells, in another dungeon for the condemned. Prisoners are tried in the county clothing: there are twelve suits for men, and fix for women.* Debtors common day-room is the hall, which is also used as a chapel. For master’s-fide, ten or twelve rooms, some of them the Rooks Nejl, where also is the free ward. All the debtors rooms were very dirty.—No infirmary: no bath. The late gaoler Mr. Roe (uncle to the present) died in 1772, of the gaol-distemper; and so did some of his prisoners. No water then, but now plenty. The felons allowance of bread is judiciously fixed by weight, not variable with the price.

See a better practice at Reading in Btrkshire.

Warwick.

Remarks.

Debtors

jo8 WARWICKSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

Warwick Debtors have in common from a legacy thirty shillings a year; and from another

COCK TT Gaol. legacy eight three-penny loaves twice every month. No memorial of either hung up in the gaol. The justices of this county have taken the gaol and bridewell under confederation, and propose that debtors and felons, and also men and women, in both, shall be entirely separated. A chapel and infirmary also are designed. May it not be hoped that gentlemen lo considerate will not continue the damp and offensive dungeon, which has only an aperture level with the court, j feet diameter.—In 1782, many rooms for debtors were finished, which open into passages only 3 feet wide. It seems by what is done, that the plan is adapted more for shew than for security, health, or convenience. There were hung up in the debtors hall, some rules against profaneness, rioting and dmnkenncfs, with penalties annexed; but I was sorry to find among them that “ Every debtor at his or her first coming mull pay for garnish, as. 6d.” At my last visit, I was informed there had been no divine service, except to the condemned, for near two years.

A TABLE OF DEBTORS FEES, As settled—by his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace—at the General Quarter Sessions—held at WhrVKitt —the 10th das- of July 1755 according to the directions of an Act—forth* Relief of Debtors, &c. £ S. D. Every prisoner that lies on the keeper’s.fide if be has a bed to himself, pays by the week 026 Those prisoners on the keeper’s-fide and have a bed between two, pay each by the week 016 For entering every action against each prisoner - - - 0 3 0 For discharging every action against each prisoner - - - - 0 10 6 To the under-iheriff for every discharge - - - - -040 For receiving and entering every declaration - - - -010 For a copy of each warrant against each prisoner - - - -010 For every certificate of the cause of a prisoner’s being detained in prison in order for being discharged - - - -ojo F Strotferd M IVifi IV Huddtsfird J Bird C Btm ’Ve the Jndse< of Assize for the County of JVorwivi have reviewed and do'hereby confirm the above Table of Feer. Given under our Hands this 24th day of August 1759 T. Parker Ja Hewitt. -- A tree Copy.’- In this gaol is hung up the following ORDER. lp'ar^ui£ijctrft -At—General Quarter Sessions—rath Janaary—15th of George III—and in the yeax J-73 before JeJrpb Davie Clerk, Jebm Ingram, Samuel Aylvienb Esqrs. ' Ordered

Midland Circuit. WARWICKSHIRE.

Ordered and it is the opinion of this Court—that the gaol be always kept close Ihut up* and no persons admitted therein, or permitted to continue there after nine in the evening between Michaelmas and Lady-day, and ten in the evening between Lady-day and Michaelmas, except in cases of real necelBty or business.

J Hewitt Clerk of the Peace.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WARWICK.

This prison, the only county bridewell, is too (mail. For men, a work-room (19 feet by 16) and two lodging-rooms. For women, two rooms in a little separate court. No water: the handle of the pump is on the outside of the wall. The whole prison dole and offensive: might be enlarged on the ground adjacent. Allowance, one pound and a half of bread a day. Keeper’s salary now, ^40: fees, 4J. 8 d. table now hung up. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up. Mr. Mujfen (chaplain to the county gaol) formerly read prayers here once a week.

Committed in the year 1772, prisoners eighty-five—1773, one hundred and eleven—1774, one hundred and twenty-three—1775, one hundred and twelve— 1776, eighty-nine—1777, one hundred and three—1778, one hundred and two— 1779, one hundred and thirty—1780, one hundred and twenty-six—1781, one hundred and eleven.

At my last vifir, the prisoners were all at work; beating hemp, spinning flax or ierfey, or carding wool. Their earnings for the county amounted, in one quarter, to £4: 12:3.

£. S. D.

And from July 10, 1780, to Oft. 2, - 5 8: o.

Jan. 9, 1781, to April 24, - 4: 16: o.

0ct. 3, -- to Jan. 15,1782, 9: 1:2.

1774, Nov. 10, Prisoners i. 1779, March 26, Prisoners 12.

1776, Jan. 6, - - 5. J782, May I, - - 10.

.... Oft. 30, - - 12.

309

Wa.wic*.

Bride-

well.

COVENTRY

3>o

WARWICKSHIRE.

Midland Circvit.

COTSKTKT.

Remarks.

COVENTRY CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Basil CceJe.

Salary, £ 12, now taken off.

Fees, Debtors, ? ,

Felon, 5*°:, J!4-Transports, £8 each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, i It. of bread a day.

Garni/h, £o: z: O.

Number, Debtors. Felons *c. Debtors. Felons &c.

»773> Nov- IO» 9> 7- 1779, March 26, 11, 3

1776, Jan. 7, 16, 10. Nov. zj. 5> 4. Deserters 4.

Oft. 30, 7> f- 17SZ, May 1, 8,

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, Mr. Harper.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

THIS gaol, built about 1772, is in a close part of the city. I was shewn a fine

spot which some gentlemen very judiciously preferred. It has eight lodging-rooms for master’s-fide debtors; and the common ward. Women-felons have only one room, and that without a fire-place. The men have a day-room. To their dungeons there is a defeent of 12 steps to a passage only feet wide: the four dungeons are about 9 feet by 6: at the upper corner of each, a little window, 11 inches by 7.

All are very damp, dirty, and offensive: we went down with torches. Only one court for all prisoners. Noftraw: no infirmary: no bath. Rooms might be made for criminals in the area where the old county-hall stood; in which case, the horrid dungeons need not be used, and the sexes might be separated. Neither clauses against ipirkuous liquors, nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are hung up.

One of the felons, James Ward, received his majesty’s pardon, on condition of his going to lea. Air. Francis Waters, clerk of the assize, wrote in the letter which enclosed the pardon (which was dated August 2$, 1781), “ The secretary of date's “ fee >s £1: 7: o and my fee £ 1: 1: o. which you’ll take care to receive on the “ back of the pardon from the officer who receives him.” As no officer would

take

Midland Circuit.

WARWICKSHIRE.

take him on condition of paying this, together with 19s. 4d* the gaoler’s and Coventry under-lhcriff’s fees, I found the poor wretch in May 1782, languishing in prison on City his pound of bread a day.

Gaol.

Coventry.

TABLE OF DEBTORS FEES,

As settled—by his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace for the City of Coventry—At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held at the said City—the 12 day of January 1778 according to Parliament—the 32—George the II.—for the Relief of Debtors.

Every prisoner that lies on the keeper’s-fide if he has a bed to himself pays by the week Those prisoners on the keeper’s-iidc, and have a bed between two, pay each by the week If on the common-fide each prisoner weekly ...

To the gaoler for discharging every prisoner committed or detained in his custody To the turnkey on every such discharge -To the onder>iherif for every discharge -

For receiving and entering, every declaration - -

For a copy of each warrant again!! each prisoner ...

For every certificate of the cause of a prisoner being detained in prison in order for being discharged -----

Sam1. Vale, Mayor*. John Mtnfler.

John Clark. The*. L. Smith.

20 March 1778. I have reviewed the above Table of Fees, and do hereby establish and confirm the fame

W, H. Ashurst.

1—an AS of

£ s. D.

O 1 6

O 0 6

O >3 4

O 2 0

O 4 O

O 1 O

O 1 0

O 3 0

COVENTRY CITY BRIDEWELL.

Two rooms for men; two for women;' all close and offensive. No court: no water accessible to prisoners: no sewers: no employment. Keeper’s salary, £5: fees, one shilling.

This was the state in 1776; but now the old town-hall adjoining is made into a work-lhop, and two lodging-rooms for men: the women have their separate room and court, and water is laid into both apartments. — If the floor of the work-room were flags, and the lodging-rooms had crib-bedsteads, this prison might be kept very clean.

1776, Jan. 7, Prisoners 6. 1779, Nov. 25, Prisoners 1.

... Oft. 30, - - 3. 1782, May 1, - - 4-

1779, March26, - - 1.

BIRMINGHAM

3'-

WARW1CKSH1RE.

Midland Circuit.

BltMlNC-

MU

Tms

Gaol.

BIRMINGHAM TOWN GAOL.

The gaol for this large populous town is called the Dungeon. The court is about 25 feet square. Keeper’s house in front; and under it two cells down 7 steps; the draw is on bed (leads. On one fide of the court two night-rooms for women, 8 feet by 5 feet 9 inches; and l'ome rooms over them: on the other fide is one small day-room for men and women, and the gaoler’s jiable (from which the litter is flung into the court): above, was a free ward for court of conscience debtors, a sizeable room, with only one window 18 inches Iquare. Over it is another room, or two.

At some particular times here are great numbers confined. Once in the winter 1775 there were above 150, who by the care of the magistrates had a supply of proper food, broth, See. In November 1782 I found thirty-nine persons who had been apprehended the preceding night by a search-warrant, but most of them were discharged that morning.—Allowance, s,d. a day in bread and cheese. Licence for beer: fees, is. no table. Neither daufes against spirituous liquors, nor act for preferring the health of prisoners, are hung up.

1774, Nov. to Debtors 7, Offenders 1.

1776, Sep. 11, - - 7. - - 5-

*179* Aug. "3* - - 0, - - 8.

1781, June 04, - - O, - 0. Deserter 1

—— Nov. 26, - - 0, 3. - - 1

BIRMINGHAM Court Prison for Debtors. Two rooms below: and two above with beds, for which each prisoner pays 1 s. 6 J. per week. Only one day-room for men and women: a court 13 feet 10 inches by 13 feet: no water. Court of conscience debtors are here confined, who by 2jth Geo. II. are discharged in forty days. Fees, yr. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. The prisoners are not permitted to work. The keeper informed me that he was obliged to pay a shoe-maker’s debt of sixteen or seventeen shillings and costs, for permitting him to finish a piece of work which he had begun before his confinement.

178:, June 24, Prisoners 7. i-'Sa, Nov. 26, 3.

LEICESTERSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

LEICESTER SHI R E.

313

COUNTY GAOL at LEICESTER.

GAOLER, Samuel Jordan, now William Jordan.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, 7 ,

Felons, ¥°

Transports, If only one, £8; if more than one, £7 each.

Licence, Beer, to deputy,*

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 3 a four-penny loaf every other day (weight ante ilb. 802.

Felons, 5 twice 3 lb. ;oz.).

Garnish, Debtors, £0:4:0. , ,

, . (See Remarks.)

Felons, 0:3:0.

Number, Debtors. Felons Bee, Debtors. Felons Bec.

1773> Nov. l6> 16, 3 1776, oa. 29, 17. 5-

1774, April 4, 16, II. 1779, March 27, «3> IO.

177J» Ja»>- 3. «S> 7- 1782, May 2, 20, 4. Deserter i

Nov. 11, 17. 2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Pigot. Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £30.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Majott.

£15 for debtors and felons.

Leices-

ter.

FOR master’s-fide debtors nine or ten rooms. Day-room common. The free Remakes. ward, the cellar, is a dungeon, 29J feet by 9, and 6 feet 8 inches high, down 7 steps and damp ;t two windows; the larged: about 15 inches square. Felons day and night-rooms are dungeons from J to 7 steps under ground. They deep on thick mats on the floor; which, if cribs and coverlets were added, would be better than straw.

The whole close and offensive. Court ftnall, 36 feet by 17 feet inches. No chapel.

Two rooms lately built for an infirmary: but the gaol is not convenient or healthy.

In 1774, three debtors and a felon died of the small-pox. Of that disease I was informed few ever recover in this gaol. The callle-hill is near the ftiire-hall, and is a fine spot for air and water.

See page 26.

-f This Teems to be the tow mist dungeon that was complained of by a debtor in this gaol, in his Letter 13th Nov. 1690, Tent to Mo/et Pitt, a prisoner in the Fleet; who printed it, with other letters Trom prisoners, in his Cry of the Oppressed 1691. By this, and one or two more of the letters in that little trail, it appears that Tome inconveniences which I observed in gaols, and have Tet down in my remarks, are of long {landing.

Sf

Clauses

LEICESTERSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

j«4

Leices-

ter

COTJKTT

Gaol.

Clauses of the act against the use of fptrituous liquors painted on the lame board as the table of fees. The act for preierving the health of prisoners not hung up. Here, as in many other gaols, is an uielefs tub, instead of a bath for cleanliness and health.* An inscription on a board is fixed over the gate, “ No money to be aiked for by turnkeys or prisoners,. for garnish or any other pretence whatever.”

In this county they make an annual collection by a kind of voluntary brief. The gentlemen of the grand jury recommend it to the clergy: most of whom promote the collection in their respective parishes. The thanks of the grand jury to forty-eight clergymen by name, were inserted in the Leictfter Journal of Feb. 16th 1775 j for the satisfaction of those gentlemen and other contributors. There is a table of the furn received from each parish; and a list of debtors clothed or discharged; and an account of the expenditure of the remainder in feeding and warming all the prisoners in the inclement season. The collections in 1774 amounted to £74. I found in 1776 the accounts were kept, and the application of the money chiefly directed by John SimffoHy Esq. of Leicester. I wilh every county would imitate this exemplary benevolence: and I wilh every county that does lo, a Reward equally faithful and assiduous.—I am forty to find the collection fall short. It amounted in 1779, only to £11: 5: 6in 17S0, to £6: 1: 9 ;—and in 1781, to £3:18: O.

Leieejitrjbtrt. A Table of Fees to be taken by the keeper of this Gaol.

£ 3. D.

For lodging of every prisoner per week - - O t 4

For gaol-fees for discharge of every prisoner - O *3 4

For the turnkey - - - O t 0

A room of every prisoner who finds his own bed per week . - O 1 0

A room, called the cellar, for debtors if they find their own bed - - O 0 0

For the copy of every warrant or commitment - - O 1 0

For signing the certificate :a order to obtain a superjtdt&s - - O t 0

Ybtmms Bechet Sejfieus. July 10. 1759.

We whose Names ate hereunto fablcribed his Majesty’s Jaftices of the Peace in and for the County of Laceficr, do hereby allow of the above Fees to be taken.

W Wrighte. Ch Hutchinfm John Damien W, Cant.

We tit judges cf Assize for the County of Leicester have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above Table of Fees. Given under oor Hands this 17th Day of August 1759

The above is z copy of the original.

T. Parker Ja. Hewitt.

In many prisons 1 have mentioned that there is ne hath, though baths ire ordered in all gaols in the A3 far prt/erviing tbt health ef prifeaers. I would here also remind gentlemen, that when baths art provided in compliance with the ad, if they be not made convenient, so that felons in their irons may commodioafly use them; and if there is no allowance for /cap and tenaeh; these prisoners wilL receive little or no benefit from them, and will never bathe but when actually compelled.

COUNTY

Midland Circuit.

LEICESTERSHIRE.

3*5

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

LEICESTER. Three rooms below for men: five above for women: one of these not used, because not secure. No chimneys. Court not safe for prisoners to be allowed the use of it. Allowance now, two pennyworth of bread a day, after a month’s confinement. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. There was painted on a board, “ By order of the Court at Easter Sessions 1778, that “ there shall be no ale or beer brought into this Prison on a Sunday, nor after “ Seven o’clock in the Evening on a week-day. ”

In a former edition I suggested, that if a wall were built with brick, instead of the clay-wall, there would be no need of a chain and log, to secure the prisoners in the court. The apartments also would be more airy, and men and women might be separated, if the narrow court were enlarged from the orchard, which was let by the keeper for £6 per annum.

At my last visit, I found the court enlarged, and a wall built; but there is not a proper separation of men and women. The prisoners now are without the chain. This prison is white-washed once a year; and kept remarkably neat and clean. The prisoners do not lie on the floors, but very properly their mats are on cribs or bedsteads. Keeper a wool-comber, his salary £11: he pays window-tax 14J.

Committed from Easter Sessions 1779 to 1780, prisoners forty-four—from 1780 to 1781, fifty-nine—and from 1781 to 1782, forty-eight.

1775, Jan. 3, Prisoners 3. 1779, Mar. 27, Prisoners 8.

1776, Oft. 19, - - 2. 178a, May 2, - - 2.

MELTON-MOWBRAY. Two rooms about eleven feet by nine: no chimney. Keeper’s salary, £4. He formerly paid rent for a cottage, but the county has lately built him a little dwelling of three rooms.—No court, nor any room for one. No water.

1776, Sep. 25, 1779, Sep. 21, 1782, May 2, No prisoners.

HINKLEY. This prison has a work-room; a vaulted lodging-room for men; another for women (to feet by 8). Mats upon bedsteads: no water. Keeper’s salary, £\: fees, is. 6 d. notable. He was also master of the work-house adjoining; in -which the poor then looked healthy, were cheerful, clean, and at work i but at my last visit, it was far otherwise.

1776, Oft. 30, 1779, March 28, 1782, May 1, No prisoners.

Beide-

WELLS.

LEICESTER

ji6

LEICESTERSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

Leices-

ter

Remarks.

LEICESTER TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Henry Ctalfon, afterwards Samuel Jordan., now William Jordan. Salary, none: he pays rent £j.

Fees, Debtors, 7

Felons, 5A 5 Transports,/io each.

Licence, Beer, to deputy.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, ? nvQ pence a day each in bread {eat. May 1784, I lb. IIozJ. Felons, 3

Gamilh, Debtors, £0 14:6.

Felons, 0:2:6.

Number, Debtors. Felons Ac. Debtor*. Felons Ice.

1774. April 4, S> 5- 1776, Oft. 29, «, 2.

t77S> J“- 3> i» 2. 1779, Mar. 27, 3> 2.

Nov. it. i> O. 1782, May 2, 4, 3

' CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, Mr. Maule.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

A common day-room 12 feet by 9: two rooms above for such as pay. Down five steps a dungeon for men-felons j another for women; another for common-fide debtors. This gaol is too dose, and is never white-waihed: it has a court with plenty of water, and yet the sewers are very offensive. Neither clauses against spirituous liquors, nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are hung up; but rhere is now a table of fees.

At my last visit, William Slaek one of the felons had received his majesty’s free pardon (April 9), and was ordered “ to be set at liberty ” signed Shelburne j but for the fees of the secretary of state (£1: ~: 6) and clerk of assize (£1:1:0) the pardoned criminal was still in prison.

Bsrfmgb ef Letttfttr in the Ccunly of Leicester.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol for the said Borough.

£. S. D.

For lodging every prisoner per week - - 024

For a room of every person who finds his own bed per week - - 010

*-'or the gaol fees for the discharge of every prisoner - - 0 13 4 For

Midland Circuit.

LEICESTERSHIRE.

3*7

For the turnkey - - - - . £. S. O 2 D. 0 Leices*

A room called the debtors room if they find their own bed to pay - - O O O TER.

For the copy of every warrant or commitment - - O 1 O

For signing a certificate in order to obtain a supersedeas - - O I O

At the delivery of evety declaration - - O I O

Attending upon every prisoner to give bail, special bail, habeas or any thing necessary to go out of gaol for every mile travelling ... O 1 O

Michaelmas Sessions 1776.

We whose names are hereunto subscribed three of his Majesty’s JolUces of the Peace lor the Borough of Lticejiir aforesaid do hereby allow the above Fees to be taken (the 13/. 4d. above to the gaoler and the 2/. to the turnkey where the prisoner against whom no bill of indictment shall be found by the grand jury, and who, on his or her trial shall be acquitted, or who shall be discharged by proclamation for want of profecotton, only excepted.)

Will, Burleton, Recorder. Rob*. Peach.

We the Judges of Assize for the borough of Lttiefter aforesaid have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above Table of Fees. Given under onr hands this 22d day of March 1777.

G. Nares.

S. S. Smythe.

“ This is a true copy of the original. *’

LEICESTER TOWN BRIDEWELL,

Is in the town gaol j down five steps, two finall rooms for men, and two for women. Keeper’s salary augmented to £$.

1776, Oct. 29, Prisoners o.

1779> March 27, - o.

1782, May 2, - o.

DERBYSHIRE.

3*8

DERBYSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at DERBY.

Duit.

GAOLER, Rlylb Simpson.

Salary, £20. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors,; ;4

Felons, J

Transports, £5:17:0 each. (See Remarks.) Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors,) per week, each two nine-penny loaves, and felons Felons, 3 annually for coals £21 12:0.

Gamiih, £0: 3:6, and £0: I: 2 for coals. &c.

Number, Debtors. Fdoos ftc. Debtor*. Fdoos&c.

1773. Nov. 18, 4> 3- 1776, Oft. 29, 10, 7-

1774, April O *» 8, 10. *779. May 14, 12, 6. Imp. 5. Def. 3,

*775. Nov. '3. 12, 8. CO Jan- 23> «3> 12. Deserter - 1,

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Seal, now the Rev. Mr. Henry. Duty, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.

Salary, £3°-

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Harrifm.

£30 for debtors, felons, &c. Three guineas for travelling charges to quarter sessions, to report the state of the gaol.

Rtuiatr. THIS gaol, built in 1757, is in an airy healthy situation.—The debtors court and ward very properly separate from those for felons, but not from the bridewell. The debtors floors are bad tarras, not easily washed. The windows in general too small and close glazed.—The bridewell, in the debtors court, has a large work-room, and two lodging-rooms for women, and also the condemned room. — The gaoler has £jo a year as keeper of the bridewell, and £10 in lieu of transports.—In the felons court there is for men a day-room, and down 3 steps a dungeon, 23 - feet diameter: for women a day-room, and two small night-rooms; the latter are too close, 7! feet square. A neat chapel, but the cieling too low: a bath; prisoners waffi in it before assize and quarter sessions: a copper just by to warm the water.—Above are two rooms for an infirmary. There is also a new room or parlour at the keeper’s house, with windows to the felons court: this circumstance keeps them quiet and orderly. The county allows eight guineas a year for straw.

A person goes round the county about Christmas to gentlemen’s houses, and begs for the debtors. He carries a book, in which the giver enters his name, and donation. The whole amount, generally about £14.

TABLE

Midland Circuit.

DERBYSHIRE,

3*9

TABLE OF FEES.

Derhyshire, to toil. At the General Quarter Sessions—held at Bairivell—on Tuesday the first week after the translation of St. Thomas the Martyr (to wit) the loth—July—4th year of—George III.— 1764, before the Rev. Sir John Every, Bart, the Rev. John Simpfott, Clerk, Philip Gelt, Jab* Ttoigg, Henry Thornhill, and Jofipb Sriggt, Esquires, Justices, Sac.

Leonard Fojbroake, Esq. Sheriff. It is ordered—that the following—Fees—be taken by the Keeper—and no other.

£ s- o.

For the lodging of every prisoner in his house per week

For the discharge of each prisoner out of custody ..

To the turnkey -----

For the copy of every warrant -

For signing a certificate, in order to obtain a/itper/edeas - - -020

For registering each declaration - - - - o I o

For attending with every prisoner in order to give bail, or be otherwise discharged . 020

And it is further ordered, that the Clerk of the Peace do cause this Order to be printed, and the Keeper of the Gaol—do observe the fame upon pain of being prosecuted according to law.

By the Court, Heathccte Clerk of the Peace.

*3

Dbkby

County

Gaol.

We the Judges of Assize for the County of Derby have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above written Table of Fees. Given under our hands— at Derby the 11th day of Augull 1764.

T. Parker. £. Clive.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at CHESTERFIELD.

This house, given, as I was informed, to the county for a bridewell, was built in 1614. For men, a room or cellar 17 feet square under the keeper's house $ down 8 steps j but level with the ground behind it: provision generally put through a hole in the floor, 6 inches square. A room for women up stairs. No straw. Nothing allowed by the county for conveyance to quarter sessions. Keeper’s salary, now £30. No fees: no allowance: no employment. Clauses against spirituous liquors not. hung up. A court is now made from one of the keeper’s gardens $ and there is a cellar for the womehy of the fame dimensions as that for the men> in which I saw-a sick object committed for bastardy.*

I am apprized, that by an act (7th Jama, c. 4.) justices of the peace are empowered to commit lewd women to the house of correction, there to be confined and set to labour, for the term of one whole year; but the woman is not to be apprehended till the child be born, and (he has recovered her strength. See Dalt. c. it. Burn, p. 207.

Before this rigorous law is pat in execution, however, gentlemen would do well to inquire whether overseers of the poor have not procured such warrants only to fove parish expenecs; and for that purpose, aggravated the crime and mifrepresented the condition of the culprit. In the present initance, and in too many others which I have known, I believe this to have been the case j and that much cruelty has been exerexfed both on the mother and child, by a commitment of the woman to her miserable habitation, while yet in a very weak ftatc.

1776,

J20

DERBYSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

ChESTI a-Firm.

1776, Jan. 10, Prisoners 2. 1779, May 14, Prisoner 1. Impressed 3. Defr. 1.

----- Oft. 28, - - 1. 1782, Jan. 24, - - 3. Deserter 1.*

DERBY TOWN GAOL

Is also the bridewell. Two rooms for debtors j one for felons; three for petty offenders. Prisoners always locked up: the narrow court or passage, only 7 feet by 34, not being secure-, is of little use. The whole ruinous, dirty and offensive. Gaoler has a large garden behind the prison. No salary as gaoler; as keeper of bridewell, £5. Fees, debtors 6s. 8d. felons 34. 6d. no table. Garnish 3a. 6d. on a paper in the debtors kitchen. Allowance to debtors and felons, one {hilling and six pence weekly in bread. Licence for beer.

1776, Oft. 29, Debtors 2. Felons &c. a.

1779, May 14, - - o. - - o.

1782, Jan. 23, - - 4. - - 2.

CHESTERFIELD Gaol, For the hundred of Scarsdale, is the property of the duke of Portland j to whom, or to his steward, the gaoler pays ,£18:12:0 a year. Only one room with a cellar under it; to which the prisoners occasionally del’cend through a hole in the floor. The cellar had not been cleaned for many months. The prison-door had not been opened for several weeks, when I was there first. There were four prisoners, who told me they were almost starved: one of them laid, with tears in his eyes, “ he had not eaten a morsel that day; ” it was afternoon. Their meagre sickly countenances confirmed what they said. They had borrowed a book of Dr. Mentions; one of them was reading it to the rest. Each of them had a wife; and they had in the whole thirteen children, call on their relpcctive parishes. Two had their groats from the creditors; and out of that pittance they relieved the other two. No allowance: no draw: no firing: water a halfpenny for about three gallons, put in (as other things are) at the window. Gaoler a bailiff, lives distant. I found in this prison a strong bedstead, which had been compassionately left by a poor prisoner, that it might be some relief to his unhappy successors.

1776, Jan. 10, Debtors 4. *779« May 14, Debtors o.

----- Ocl. 28, 1. 1782, Jan. 24, - - o.

This deserter had been before c tanned here for desertion, his Ircthtr was in another prison for the fame offence; they followed the example of their father, who was a deserter, and was afterwards transponcJ; and thrir grandfather was a dragoon, who deferred with his horse and accontrements, and vas never taken. The keeper’s mother, who was a near neighbour to the grandfather, was my

in*bimant.

NOTTINGHAM-

Midland Circuit.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

341

COUNTY GAOL at NOTTINGHAM.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Richard Bonington, £20.

Debtors, 7/( Felons, 5 Transports, £7: 17: 6 each. Licence, Beer.

'o: 14: 8.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day.

Felons, three-halfpennyworth of bread and a halfpenny in money every day (weight of three-penny loaf in Jan. 1775, i lb. 14I oz. in Sep. 1779, lib. 30Z.J.

Garnish, prohibited.

Number, Debtors. Felons ttc. Debtors. Felons Ac.

1773, Nov. 17, An 12* 1776, Sep. 4J, 4. IO.

1774, April 3, 12, a. 1779. !9> 12, 5-

!77j, Jan. 4, 10, 1. 1782, Jan. 21, «r. 6.

Nov. 12, 4, 11.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Anderson.

Duty, Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Bettefon, now Mr. Patridge.

£20, now £30, for debtors and felons.

THE gaol is on the fide of a hill. For master’s-fide debtors only three rooms. Down 28 steps are two rooms for criminals who can pay, and a condemned room. Down 12 steps more are deep dungeons, cut in the Tandy rock, very damp: one of which is 23 feet by, 13, and 7 feet high: another, nearly circular, is about 12 feet diameter: the straw on barrack-beds.

At my last visit, the felons court was more airy, the wall being palifaded; they had both well and river water; and there was an entire reparation of debtors and felons.—The women have one bed, in a room in the turnkey’s lodge. When there are more than two women, they are at night in one of the dungeons.

For bathing here is (not, as in most other county gaols, an inconvenient and almost useless tub—but) a large and commodious bath, supplied with river water; and a copper just by, ro warm it when necessary. The infirmary is near it, which has two rooms. The act for preferring the health of prisoners is neatly painted over the keeper’s door. The justices have allowed the gaoler to supply the Tick with

T t better

Nottinc-

HAU.

Remarks.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

N'ottikc

9 AM

Cocittt

(iAOL.

better nouriihment, See. to the amount of seven shillings a week. Gentlemen so remarkably confederate and humane will, I hope, abolish the unwholelbme dungeons.

The prisoners have the choice of wheaten or household bread; the weight of the former, three fourths of the latter.

Transports condemned at affixes had, with the king’s allowance of two shillings and fix penct a week, the county-bread.

Here (as at Derby) a man goes round the county about Christmas, and begs at gentlemen's houses for -the debtors. He carries a book, and gentlemen write in it their names, and donations. The amount, about £30 a year; in 1781 it was £34.

No chapel. Service is performed in a parlour, which is too (mail.

Prisoners are tried in clothes provided for that purpose by the county.*

In the account sent up to London of transports in this gaol in 1776, was one William Berks. This man obtained his majesty’s pardon. Mr. Francis Waters, clerk of ailize, in his letter sent with the pardon, charges (late office fees £1 ‘.7:6, my fees £1:7:8. For these, and the gaol fees, the pardoned criminal was detained in prison.

TABLE OF FEES.

KettzMgbmm/bire. At the Quarter Sessions held at the Shire-Hall 14th January 1760.

For lodging and board of each prisoner when he lodges and diets with the gaoler,

by the week - - - - o

For each when he hath a room and bed of the gaoler and diets himself, by the week o

For each when he hath a room of the gaoler, and finds his own bed and diet per week o

For the discharge of each prisoner - - - - o

And to the turnkev for the fame - - - - o

$. D.

7

2 O

o 6 U 4 > 4

The gaoler is to take notice if he takes more than the above fonts he is liable to forfeit to the party aggrieved for each offence the sum of fifty pounds (exclusive of the penalties inflicted by former act).

We direct the Depoty Clerk of the Peace betwixt now and the next Sessions to pot Copies of this Table in the respedire Courts within this County where the General Qoarter Sessions are held, and also in fbznc confptcaons open place within the said Gaol, in order that the fame may be inspelted as occasions may require and be preferred in the said Gaol, to be resorted to at all ieasonable times in the day time without paying any thing lor the fame.

Xf. Mufiers /F. Bilbu H, Sherbrooke

J. White Wm. Kirke Qeo. Afafctt.

Having reviewed the above Table of Fees, I do hereby confirm the fame. Witness my hand the-26th day of March 1760

H. Bathurst.

A true copy examined with the original by me

John HmJt depoty clerk of the peace.

See a mere jcdicicos practice at M*of*g.

Nottinghamjhirt.

Midland Circuit.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

3*3

Nattingbamjbirt. A Table of the several Gifts Legacies and Bequests—-for the benefit—6f poor Nottinc-Prisoners in the common Gaol of this County as settled by us his Majesty's Jo ft ices of the Peace—this ham

18th day of Jan. 1760. Pursuant to the late Act of Parliament and according to the best information County

we can get, as follows. Gaol.

By John Shemxtin Esq. of Nottingham, the yearly sum of four pounds, paid quarterly out of an estate at Bram/cou, in this county, purchased by Mr. Sherwin*s father of some of the defendants of Henry Handley Cfq. who left this charity.

By Abel Smith Esq. of Nottingham, pursuant to the directions of the will of Mr. Abel Ceilings deceased, four shillings monthly for coals for the priibners.

We are informed that forty shillings a year, was formerly left by some of the family of..Hutebinfin,

Esquire. But that the prisoners have not received the fame for these twenty years past.

We do not know of any other gifts, legacies, or bequests, except the general collection made in the county for the prisoners every Christmas.

We order this table to be transmitted to the deputy clerk of the peace for this county, to be entered among the rolls of the sessions, and copies thereof to be made and hung up by him in the respective courts, where the general quarter sessions are held—there to remain and be inspected—And also to cause another copy—to be transmitted to the keeper of the said gaol to be forthwith hung up by him there, in some public place, and in a conspicuous manner,—fo as the prisoners may have free relort thereto, at all feasonable times in the day time, without paying any thing for the lame.

Mujlers TV. Bilbie H. Sherbrooke A. C. Stanhope.

y. White IV*. JCirke Geo. Afafon

A true copy examined with the original by me

John Hurfi.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SOUTHWELL.

This is also used as a prison for those manors in this county which belohg to the b r t n e-

archbishop of York. wr.n.

In front of the court, is a room on the ground-floor, in which were two men; one of them sentenced for three years, the other for seven: and a damp dungeon down 10 steps, 14 feet square and 71 feet high; the window 2 feet IO inches, by only 8 inches.—The date on this part is 1656.—In the back court is a new building with two rooms on the ground-floor, and two above: one of the latter is an infirmary.

The rooms are about 15 feet by 12, and have chimneys, but no firing is allowed by the county. No pump in this court: for the women, a court might be made out of the keeper’s garden. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. Apothecary, Mr. Hutchinson; he makes a bill. Allowance, three-halfpennyworth of bread. A three-penny loaf weighed 1 lb. $ioz. at my first visit; at my second, ili>.; at my third, of good houlehold bread, lit. nez. , at my last visit, the three-halfpenny loaf weighed 12 oz. Some of the prisoners were making shoemaker’s pegs at three-halfpence a thousand (the keeper fells them for three-pence) > and some spinning flax j

T t 2 half

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

?onTH- half the earning is the keeper’s. Here was committed a shoemaker for twelve

WEI-i- months, with an order (highly improper) that he should not work at his own trade.

Keeper's salary, £45: fees, 3r. 6d. no table: but now there is painted on a board over the keeper’s door, “ The fees of this place is, three shillings and six-pence. N. B. None is exempt from paying but common vagrants.” He informed me that a few years ago, seven died here of the gaol-fever within two years.

1775, Jan. 4, Prisoners 9. 1779, Sep. 20, Prisoners 17.

1776, Sep. 24, - - 13. 1782, Nov. 17, - - 9.

NOTTINGHAM TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Richard Bonington, the county gaoler.

Salary, ,£8.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 8: o if under £10.

O: 14: 8 if from any court in London. Felons, o: 14: 8.

Transports, - 7: 17: 6 each.

Licence, See County GaoL PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, three-halfpence in bread, a day.

Gamiih, prohibited.

Number, Debtor*. Feloes 6c. Debtors. Felons fee.

1773, Nov. 17. 5, 1. *776, Sep. 25, 0, O.

*77J, Jan- 4, 3> o. 779> -— 19, 2, O.

Nov. 12, s. 2. 1782, Jan. 21, 1, 1.

CHAPLAIN, none. SURGEON, none dated. The mayor orders one when wanted.

XtuAtt.-. THTS gaol has been lately repaired and much improved. Three rooms on the ground-floor, two chambers, and two garrets a dungeon down twenty-two Heps, which I was informed has not been used for some years: a back court supplied with water. Debtors have from a legacy one shilling a week for coals. Collected in the town for prisoners about £\ a year. Clauses again!! spirituous liquors not hung up.

A table of fees was hung up, dated the 10th of April 1777, signed by Tho. Sands, Mayor, Rich. Sutler and John Fellows, Aldermen, and confirmed by W. H. Ashurst, similar to that in the county gaol.

NOTTINGHAM

Midland Circuit.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE.

3*5-

NOTTINGHAM TOWN BRIDEWELL.

Two rooms: no fire-place r a dark dungeon down nine steps. No court, although Nottibg.

there is ground before and behind the house. No fewer. Water in a kitchen, where “*“

there is a bed for prisoners who can pay two pence a night. Allowance, a threepenny loaf every other day. Here is a mill for grinding horse-beans. Clauses again!! spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £8: fees, is. ^d.

1776, Sep. 2j, Prisoners o. 1779, Sep. 19, - - o.

1782, Jan. 2i, - -, 2.

NEWARK upon Trent TOWN GAOL, and BRIDEWELL.

Two rooms arched with brick, the largest up stairs 12 feet by 11. The two windows being towards the street, it is impossible to prevent spirituous liquors, &c. from being conveyed to the prisoners. No court: no water: no fewer. Keeper lives at a public house at a little distance: salary, for the bridewell, £1: fees, 4s. no table. Allowance, three-halfpence a day: no straw. Among the various improvements that are making in this town, may it not be hoped the corporation will make some addition to this prison from their ground behind it

1776, Sep. 23, Prisoners 2.

1779, Sep. 20, - - o. Defeners 2.

1782, Nov. 17, - - o. - - 4.

BASFORD Prison, for Debtors. This is his majesty’s gaol or prison of the court of record of his honour of Peverel and additional limits of the fame in the counties of Nottingham and Derby. Thomas Lord Middleton high Reward. One room with three beds. The keeper said he had another little room for women-prisoners; but having none of that sex, he made use of it for his servants. The house is his freehold. Fees, 131. 4d. by the court-roll.—The debts were from forty shillings to fifty pounds, but now are from ten pounds* to fifty pounds.

1776, Sep. 24, Prisoners 3. 1779, Sep. 20, Prisoners 2.

LINCOLNSHIRE.

See 19 G«. III. Cap. LXX.

LINCOLNSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

336

COUNTY GAOL, LINCOLN CASTLE.

Lmtcols.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Isaac Weed.

none. But £154 a year to fopply prisoners as below 1 and to pay land-tax, Sec. (See Remarks.)

Debtors, > ,

Felons, S£ '

14

Transports,j£8: 8: o for each: and 13s. 4A. (Jet Table of Fees.) He paid the clerk of assize a guinea for each.

Licence, Beer: which the gaoler brews. He lets the Tap.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, if certified as in Remarks, fame as felons.

Felons, each weekly 8 lb. of bread, and 2d. for beef: in common yearly £2, for coals: £1, straw: £1, oatmeal.

Garnish, £0:2:6.

Number, Debtors. Felons fee. Debtors. Felons Sec.

*774> Jan. 27, ey *y I X. 1779, May 6, 22, *4-

Oft. 29, 14. 9- 1782, Feb. 1, 3°. 3-

1776, Jan. 31, 23. 18. Dutch prisoners of war 7 .*

Sep. 23, 12, 3-

CHAPLAINS, Rev. Mr. Simpson-, and Dr. ffaldgrave by his curate the Rev. Mr. WeUasg, now Mr. Barnet,

Duty, Mr. Simffon, Wednesday and Friday; Mr. Bennet, Sunday.

Salary, Mr. Simffon £$, &c. fee Remarks-, Dr. Waldgrave about£3$ per

legacy of Rebecca Huffy.

SURGEON, Wlx. Parnell. Salary, £20-

KiM.iti THE castle belongs to the duchy of Lancaster. The county pays ten shillings a year. The gaoler, per contract, to keep it in repair. A spacious area of near seven acres. (6 A. 3 R. 27 P.) On the ground-floor are the gaoler’s apartments, the tap-room. See.

For master’s-fide debtors, fix sizeable rooms on the first story; and as many garrets. The floors of both (lories are tarras, and cannot be kept clean: the passages fix feet wide, with windows close glazed.

The free ward for debtors is only a room at the end of the building, down 2 steps. It is paved with ixnall (tones, and is a thorough-fare to sundry places. First, by

See page 190.

a trap-

Midland Circuit.

LINCOLNSHIRE.

3a7

a trap-door in the said pavement there' is a descent of io steps to two vaulted dungeons for criminals, 8 feet high; one, the Pie, 14 feet by si, window S feet by 14 inches; the other, within it, the condemned cell, 14 feet by 7; window about 9 inches by 18: a little short straw on the floors: both dungeons oflfenfive.—It is also a passage to the women-felons ward (which is 11 feet by 8);—and to the felons court (43 feet by 264.), and their sizeable day-room (15 feet by 19): no water: no fewer;—and to a room for the closer confinement of debtors who do not behave well. There are two rooms with beds for felons who can pay for them; to which there is another way.

No chapel: service is performed in the Shire-hall. No infirmary: no bath. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. The whole prison is out of repair and never white-washed.

Mr. Wood, besides the forementioned articles of his contract, is to furnish his prisoners with pails, and other utensils, to the amount of £3 a year; and to pay yearly to prisoners in the King’s Bench and Marshalsea, two guineas; all out of his salary of £154.

An order of the justices is hung up, that for a debtor’s being admitted' to county allowance, it is required that he produce a certificate of his poverty signed by the minister, churchwardens and overseers of his parish. The debtors make considerable quantities of garters, purses, &c. of a very good fort; most of which they weave in a cheap, but convenient hand-frame.

Mr. Simpfcn's salary, £5, is from a legacy of Thomas Hejkden; and for attending condemned criminals he has five guineas from the sheriff. Mr. Thomas Hejleden left also £3 a year, for the better maintenance of the poor prisoners in the castle. For the payment of these two legacies, he bound an estate called Works Chantry at Lincoln. His will was proved September 21, 17*0.

Thomas Robert Jenkinson, by will (proved February 13, 1772,) left the interest of £120 to the debtors in this prison, to be equally divided among them annually on Easter Monday; with this proviso, that if the whole interest for one year is fiiificient to discharge any one debtor, within fourteen days of the time of payment, the said sum shall be applied for that purpose, at the discretion of his trustees.

Rebecca Huffey, by her will, proved in London loch May 1715, bequeathed the interest of £1000 to release poor debtors from this castle: but no debtors have received the benefit for many years past. j-

If the gentlemen should build a new gaol, it may be hoped it will be a more substantial building than the county hospital in this city, and not with such tarras floors.

t On a tomb-stone in the cathedral, is an inscription, noting that Clnunt IPW interred there, was thirty-eight years gaoler of the caiUe, and of the city gaol.

Lincoln

County

Gaol.

A Table

LINCOLNSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

13

Lijccolk

COCNTT Gaol.

A Table of Fies to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of the Gaol for the County of Linnl*— and RmUs for Gmtrwmaa—settled purfoant to a late AA for Relief of Debtors, &c.

£. S. Z>.

Every prifoaej dull pay to the gaoler at his first coming into gaol six shillings and

eight-pence - - - - -068

Every prisontr that will lodge in any chamber in the hoofe shall pay to the gaoler for his bed weekly _______

If he will have the whole bed to hamfelf, to pay weekly -

But if two or more debtors lie in the fame bed then to be paid amongst them weekly -And that the four chambers on the fird door shall be held and kept for such only as board in the honfe

Every pnfbner for debt to pay bat one fee to the gaoler for his discharge oat of the prison though he Sands committed in several actions, and the fee to be no more than six shillings and eight-pence .....

To the turnkey on the said discharge, one {hilling -

Every felon to pay to the gaoler upon his discharge oot of prison thirteen shillings and four-pence -

To the turnkey on the said discharge, one shilling ...

The gaoler having the cate of the felons condemned for transportation, sometimes three months, /bmetises six months, and often longer, to be paid for each solon by the treasurer oat of the county-money when he is taken oat of gaol thirteen shillings and soar-pence ......

Every prisoner committed from the bar, by the jadge of assize or sessions to pay to the gaoler for his discharge thirteen shillings and four-pence ..

Every prifooer that will eat at the first table to pay five shillings a week to the gaoler for his lodging and diet having three meals a day -If he eats at the second table then he dull pay bot four shillings a week for his diet and lodging ......

Every debtor that lies in the common grate may provide hiafelf with a bed, bedding and fhects and porfoant to the aA have necessaries of life from any place—between fix in the morning and fix at night from Lady-day to Michaelmas—between eight and four from Michaelmas to Lady-day—no more than one quart of ale a day—brought in to one prifooer, to prevent disturbance, &c.

Every debtor—whom two jcftices—adjudge necessitoas*—and every felon shall have>8/£. weight of wholesome household bread, and t lb. weight of beef f delivered to them weekly.

Every debtor shall quietly—go to his chamber, between Lady-day and Michaelmas at nine in the evening—and between Michaelmas and Lady>day at eight and no later; whosoever shall refofe— shall on proof be deprived of his beef and bread by a joftice for a time at discretion. if any gaoler, turnkey or other officer, or any prifooer—require any—money from a new-come prifooer —either for garaifli money, chamber-money—cards—feeing Lufey Tower—or any other account whatfocTer, Shall—if a priibner lose his allowance for a time at the discretion of a justice—if the gaoler, &c. be ponished as an extortioner according to law.

If the gaoler or any of his fob-officers shall at any time from hence think it safe to take off any felon's irons, if a common felon he shall pay the fom of two shillings and sixpence a week and no more— If a gentleman or better fort of criminal then he shall take the sum of five shillings per week and no more. 2

o j oz6 o 26

06 8

o t o

O 13 4

010

0 .3 4

0 1} 4

0 5 0

0 4 0

Sse r<urli preceding.

-f- Instead of this they have two pence, j Thii order beta; foatewhat CngeUr, 1 bave transcribtd it veriaim.

Any

Midland Circuit.

LI'NCOLNSHIRE.

319

Any person removed by bobcat corptti to pay the lame fees as other ptifoners when discharged.

A prisoner making water—fo as to annoy—or walhing hands in the bucket—to lose his allowance for a time, &c.

We his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace for the Division of Lindfiy, in the County of Lincoln, Assembled —at Spiljty have examined the above Table of Fees with the Rules and Orders—and do allow and confirm the fame—the 12th day of April 1768

W". Majfmgbcrd H: Bcji Ric might W Marjhall Ed Willi

We his Majesty’s Justices—for the Division of Keftmm—assembled—at Sleaford—in allow and confirm the fame—13th April 1768

John Thorold Robe Burnt Dti Jomt Leo: Brown.

We his Majesty’s Justices—for the Division of Holland—assembled—at Bojhcn—do allow and confirm the fame 14th July 1768

' Ri Falkner H. B. Paccy Ri Fyiell J Linton Junr. R. FyitU J Calthorp.

We the Judges of Aifize for the County of Lincoln have reviewed the above Table of Fees with the Rules and Orders—and do hereby confirm the fame.—This 23th day of July 1768.

T. Parker. E. Clive.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

GAINSBOROUGH. Two lodging-rooms,* and a day-room below, and two rooms up stairs: a court 33 feet square, in which is a new work-room: no water: no straw: no allowance: the prisoners were beating hemp at four pence a stone. Conveyance to quarter sessions at keeper’s expence. His salary, £30. No fees.— Might be improved on the keeper’s garden.

1776, Jan. 30, Prisoners 3.

1779, May 6, - - j. Lunatics 3.

78-, Jan. 31, - - 4. - - 2.

FOLKINGHAM. In this prison under the keeper’s house are five damp rooms, two of which were used for a lunatic, who was confined here some years. The men’s lodging-room (18 feet by 9 feet 9 inches and 6 feet 9 inches high), has only an aperture in the door a foot square into the work-room. The women’s room is 13 feet by 8, and 6 feet 2 inches high.—In another room 201 feet by 12 (called the old gaol), you go down by a trap-door in the floor seven steps into a horrid dungeon (10 feet square, 51 feet high). No chimney: small court: no pump: no fewer. Yet a woman with a child at her breast was sent hither

I was surprised to find a lunatic of the other sex lodge in the room appropriated to the <utomn.

U u for

Lincoln

CowMTY

Gaol.

Bride-

wells*

LINCOLNSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

for a year and a day: the child died. Conveyance to quarter sessions at keeper’s expence. His salary, £37: out of which he mult allow each prisoner fix-pennyworth of bread a week. Fees, 9s. 4d. no tabic.

1774, Oct. 28, Prisoners 4. 1782, Feb. 2, Prisoners 2.

1779, May j, - - 2. Lun. 1.

SPALDING. This prison, lately built, has several sizeable airy rooms 13 feet by 10: chimneys in two of them. A work-room 28 feet by gJ. The under-rooms vaulted, 12j feet by 94, and 7 feet high: the entrance is by a trap-door final the upper rooms. There is a pump now in the court, which not being secure, the prisoners have no access to it. Allowance, three pence a day. When they work they have three fourths of the profit; turnkey, the remainder. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up: as also is the late act for prelerving the health of prisoners, neatly painted on a small board. Keeper’s salary, £38: fees, jr. no table. Surgeon’s salary, £11. In the twelve years preceding 1782, there were 473 prisoners, of whom 41 were debtors.—By the act for the court of requests for the hundred of Elloe, in this county, the debtor shall remain in confinement three months.

1776, Feb. 2, Prisoners 4. 1779, Oft. 11, Prisoners 2.

1779, Mar. 29, - - 13. 1782, Feb. 3, - - 4.

LINCOLN CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Francis Tayn.

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, 7

Felons, $ L

Transports, £10 each. Licence, Beer.

: 6:

8.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, one shilling a week. Gamilh, one shilling. Number, Ddm Fdtu *c. Debtors. Felons Ac.

*774, J*«. *7. 3. * 1779, May 6, 1, 0.

1776> Jan. 3*. 0, 1. 1782, Feb. 1, 1, 1.

Sep. 23, CHAPLAIN, none. SURGEON, none. 0, 2. THIS

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE. 331

THIS gaol, at the Stone-bow gate, has one large room for men-debtors, one Remark*. smaller for women, both up stairs: in each a fire-place. The rooms for criminals are two dungeons down three steps; damp earth floors. In one of them (13 feet inches by 12 feet 2 inches) is a cage in which the sickly criminal I saw at my last visit, was locked up at night. No court: no water accessible to prisoners: no straw.

The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Clauses against spirituous liquors, fairly written on parchment, were framed and hung up.*

City of Lincoln and County of the fame City, to <wit.

A Table of—Rates and F e b s—settled "by the Justices—at a General Quaiier Sessions—held at the Guild-Hall—within the first whole week next after the Translation of St. Thomas the Martyr to wit, on the 14th day of July in the 33d—of George II—1759 pursuant to—an Act for Relief of Debtors Scc.

Every debtor that lies in a bed belonging to the keeper is to pay one {hilling weekly and

no more - - - - o I

Any debtor that finds a bed and places it in the common room is to pay nothing for his

lodging - - . . - . - o o

Every prisoner for debt is to pay one fee to the keeper for his discharge out of prison though he (lands committed in several actions and that fee no more than six shillings and eight pence - 06

Every felon is to pay to the gaoler for his discharge out of prison six shillings and eight

pence and no more - - - o 6

If not continued in prison above a week then to pay only three shillings and four pence o 3 Every prisoner that will eat with the gaoler is to pay for his lodging and diet weekly

four shillings and six pence having three meals a day - - 04

Evciy prisoner committed from the bar by the judge of assize or sessions is to pay the

gaoler for his discharge three shillings and four pence and no more - -03

D.

o

o

8

8

4

6

4

Rob* Obbtnfin> Mayor In°. Hooton Rob* Thickston In°. Davies

Ger. Gibson Eu/1. Fowlir John Wilson Edv/. Letbtrland

Rob*. Drewry John Brown Brosr*. Brousn.

We the Judges of Assize for the city of Lincoln and County of the fame City have reviewed this Table of Fees and do hereby confirm the fame. Given under our Hands this 9th day of August 1759,

T Parker Ja Hewitt.

Examined by Jofp. Peart Clerk of the peace.

On my observing to the keeper, how properly these clauses against spirituous liquors were hung up* he informed me, that both the debtors and felons used to be served with them from the public houses; but that upon having nearly loft his life from one of the felons who was intoxicated, he copied out the clauses from Burn, shewed them to the publicans, and thus put an end to the practice. —When I have inquired, in similar prisons, whether these clauses were hung up ? the keepers have frequently replied. How is it possible for us to prevent liquors being handed in at the street windows

Uu2 BOSTON

LINCOLNSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

BOSTON Town Gaol. This is also the bridewell. Two damp offensive rooms about 14 feet square, and over them two rooms for women (one the bedroom 9 feet 3 inches by 6 feet inches, with only an aperture in the door 7 inches by j) j and two rooms adjoining for debtors. No court: no water. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Salary, as gaoler, £10; as keeper, £$. Fees, ij. 6J.

1779, Oft. 11, Debtors o. Felons &c. 2.

1782, Feb. 2, - - o, - - - o.

STAMFORD Town Gaol. The gate which was the old prison is taken down, and a new prison is builc ac che town-halt. One good room for debtors in the keeper’s house: for other prisoners two cells, 10 feet by 8, and 7f high: the window in each only 2 feet by 3 inches: and a bridewell-room 16 feet by 8: the window here also too small, 2 feet by 1 foot 8 inches.

Allowance to felons, two pence a day. Salary, as gaoler, £4; as keeper, £3:6:8. Licence for beer and wine. Act for preserving the health of prisoners, and clauses against spirituous liquors, not hung up. This new gaol, instead of being on a more humane plan, is worse than the old prison was for felons. The court not being secure, the prisoners are always locked up in their offensive and unhealthy cells. Fees, Jee Table; which, though not iigned, nor hung up in the new gaol, 1 transcribe for the singularity of an article or two.

Debtors. Felons 4c. Debtors. Felons 4c.

1776, Feb. 10, o, 1. 1779> Sep. 21, o, o.

----- Sep. 26, o, 2. 1782, May 3, o, 2.

Ybt 7nee or Borough of Stamford in tbt Countj of Lincoln-

A Table of Fees settled 3cc.—at the Quarter Sessions held by Adjournment s8th Aoguft 1729 &c.

For every arrest apon bail .....

For waiting for bail one Hulling per hoar

Bail fees to the gaol ... ...

For diet each day, if not find themselves ..... For lodging each night, if not find themselves ...

If they find themselves bedding, then for cleaning the room each week

For Felons &c. that lie on the Common-fide.

For gaoler's fees for the gaol .....

To the smith ironing and caking off ....

Lodging for each night .....

To the person who executes sentence of pillory, burning in the hand, or whipping To the keeper of the hoofe of correction for every person committed for the first night Every day that person continues in custody for attendance ..

£. S. D. o 10 0

060

O I o 004. 010

o 10 o

0 2 0

0 0 2

0 I o

006 0 0 I

RUTLANDSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

RUTLANDSHIRE.

333

COUNTY GAOL at OAKHAM.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

William Lumley, now Henry Lmley. none.

Debtors,

Felons,

14: 10.

Transports,£io each. Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors,7 , . . ,

J three-halfpence a day each, in bread. Felons, j

Garnish, one shilling.

Number, Debtors. Felons &e. Debtors. Felon* See.

1774» Jan. 23, 0, O. 1779, Mar. 28, S> j. Deserters 3

,775» Nov. 10, 1, 2. Sep. 21, I.

1776, Sep. 26, 0, O. 1782, May 3, 2, 3-

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, Mr. Bullivant, now Mr. Berry.

Salary,

Oakham.

THIS is also the county bridewell and the town gaol; yet I found it twice Remarks. empty. On the ground-floor is a day-room or kitchen for debtors:—a day-room, and two small vaulted night-rooms for felons; one of which being quite close (11 feet by 6 feet inches), the gaoler has made apertures in the door.—Up stairs are two rooms strongly planked with oak: in each of them are two beds, for those that pay.

There is a large work-room, but there were no rooms proper for the reparation of men and women, or of bridewell prisoners from felons. Lately one room has been fitted up in the barn for that purpose, with a chimney. The whole prison is thatched.

The felons court is parted off with strong wooden palisades; which intercepting the pump, the justices have been so considerate as to put down another pump in the felons court. They have also ordered the gaoler to provide some clothing for the most destitute prisoners. His salary as keeper of the bridewell is £0.0. No table of fees. Act for preserving the health of prisoners, and clauses against spirituous liquors, not hung up.

The present gaoler’s father, grandfather and great grandfather, held the lame office.

NORTHAMPTON-

334

Midland Circuit.

KoftTH-

Aurrox.

RfMAftC.'.

\

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at NORTHAMPTON.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

John Scofield.

now £33. He pays the county £+0 a year. Debtors, 7 ,

Felons,’: *5: 4'

Transports, If two, £7 each; if more, £6: 16: 6 each. Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two-pennyworth of bread a day (wt. Jan. 1775, lib. i-frz.J and new two pence for meat.

Gamifh, Debtors, £0:6:0.

Felons, 0:2:6.

N umber, Debtors. Fdn Ac. Debtor*. Felons Ac

1773. Nov. iy. 9. 8. *779» Mar- 25> I4> 9-

1774> April 5, 6, 4- Nov. 24, J-

i77S» 1776, Jan. 2, j. 8, 7> 7- 12. 1782, July 14, *9> 10.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Miller.

Duty, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Kerr, y Salary, none. APOTHECARY, Mr. Breton. 5 They make a bill.

THIS gaol is also the county bridewell; but petty offenders are kept separate from felons. Mr. Scofield had a salary of £36: 10: o as keeper, and new as gaoler he has £30 added. Three courts; but the two for felons are too close. No straw. The county have built seven commodious rooms (7 feet 9 inches by 6 feet), for felons; yet there arc still two horrid dungeons 11 Reps under ground, over which is a day-room for felons, and the condemned room.—The bridewell part consists of one room, with a dole bed-room, and a room over them, all made very offensive by a fewer. The prison was clean, and the gaoler attentive and humane to his prisoners. Debtors, felons, and petty offenders were at work, spinning, making pegs for shoe-makers, &c.

The chapel was the upper room in the gaoler’s house, when it must have been painful for prisoners loaded with irons to go up and down the stairs; but now it is more conveniently situated. No infirmary, nor bath. The act for preserving the

health

Midland Circuit. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

health of prisoners, and clauses against spirituous liquors, not hung up. A table of fees is now ligned and hung up: that which the gaoler ihewed me on my former visits was neither dated, signed, nor hung up; which occasioned my saying in the first edition, * no table of fees/'

Northamptonshire, to wit. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace—-holden at Northampton, in and for the said County, on Thursday—the Sixteenth Day of January, in the Seventeenth Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George the Third—before the Reverend John Hill,' Doctor of Laws; Atnbrofi Ified, Esq. Brook Bridges, and Charles Addington, Clerks; Justices of our said Lord the King, assigned to keep the Peace within the said County, fee.

It is ordered, by this Court, that the following Rates and Fees be taken by the Keeper of Majesty’s Gaol for the said- County; and no other:

For the lodging of every prisoner for debt, in his house, per week, - >02

For the discharge of every such prisoner out of custody for debt, - - - o 13

Ditto to the turnkey, - . - - - -02

For the copy of every warrant, - - - - 01

For signing a certificate, in order to obtain a fuptrfedeas, - - .02

For registering a declaration, - - - - o 1

For attending with every prisoner in order to give bail, or be otherwise discharged for

debt, within the town of Northampton. - - . ~ 0 2

his

D.

o

4

o

o

o

o

o

And it is further Ordered, that the above Table of Fees be laid before the Judges, at the next Assizes to be holden for the said County, for their revisal and confirmation; and, if the fame shall be so confirmed, that a Copy thereof be hung up in some conspicuous part of the Prison, and another Copy in the Grand-jury gallery.

By the Court,

Morgan, Clerk of the Peace.

We, the Judges of Assize for the County of Northampton, have reviewed, and do hereby confirm, the above-written Table of Fees. Given under our. hands, at the Assizes holden at Northampton, the fourth day of March, 17.77.

S. S. Smythe. G. Nares,

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

KETTERING. This prison is in the back court of the keeper’s public house. On the front is an inscription, that c* This house with sixteen dwellings were burnt Nov. 5, 1766/' A room for men 18^ feet by 154, in which down 3 steps is a lodging-room 8 feet by jf, with an aperture in the door 15 inches by it. Court 19^ feet square. For women, a separate court and a room about the fame size as the men’s day-room: dirt floors: windows close glazed. No water: no fewer. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, £11.

Fees,

335

County

Gaol.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

Midland Circuit.

Fees, 2 s. 6d. Receives rent of the county £15: 10: o.—From new year’s-day 1780, to 1781, here were a hundred and five prisoners.

1779, Oft. is, Prisoners 2. 1782, July 14, Prisoners o.

OUNDLE. Separate work-rooms, lodging-rooms, and courts for men and women s the whole is in a ruinous insecure date. It is rented by the county at £i 2 a year. Keeper’s salary, £ 12. Fees, 31. 6d. notable.

1779, Sep. 22, Prisoners o.

----- Oft. 12, - o.

1782, May 4, - - 1.

NORTHAMPTON TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms and a court for felons and petty offenders, and a room and a court for debtors. Both courts are towards the street. Felons are allowed two pence a day each. The gaoler is a bailiff and sheriff’s officer: licence for beer: he has no salary: pays rent, £3. Fees, 131. 4 d. notable.

1776, Jan. 5, Debtors 2. 1779, Nov. 24, Debtor 1. Deserter 1.

1779, Mar.25, - - I. 1782, July ij, - - o. - - 4.

PETERBOROUGH Gaol, For the liberty called the Soke, which contains thirty-two towns, is the property of Lord Exeter. It is now also the prison of the dean and chapter of the cathedral church of the Borough of St. Peter otherwise Peterborough.

Two good rooms for debtors, and down 3 steps a room called the Gaol-, near which is the condemned room: the court having power of life and death. The window in the gaol room being now flopped up, there is only an aperture in the door 13 inches by 7. No allowance. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and act for preferring the health of prisoners, not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £12: licence for beer: fees, ns. id. the table neither signed nor dated. He pays window-tax, Cl -6: 0.

1774, Oft. 28, Debtors 2.

1776, Sep. 26, 3. Deserter 1.

1779. Sep. ai, - - 1. - - o.

,782, May 3, - - 1. - - 3-

PETERBOROUGH Bridewell. For the Soke, as above, has on the ground-floor a large work-lhop, and a room lately divided into a part for iqen, and another for women: no chimney. Up stairs, two rooms or hemp-warehouses: the keeper a hemp-dresser. A finall court (9 feet inches wide), not secure: prisoners always

within

Oxford Circuit.

BERKSHIRE.

337

within doors. No water. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s Peter. salary only ,£8: fees, jj. 6d. notable. borough

1774, Oft. 28, Prisoner 1. 1779, Sep. 21, Prisoner 1.

1776, Sep. 26, - - 1. 1782, May 3, - - o.

DAVENTRY Gaol, A room 3 feet under ground called the dungeon, iji feet by 11. No fire-place: no court: no water. The constables are keepers.

1776, Jan. J, 1779, Not. 24, 1782, Nov. 27, Noprisoners.

BRACKLEY Gaol. A room called the dungeon, 4 feet square, under the staircase of the town-hall. Aperture in the door 8 inches by 6. The constable is keeper.

779, Oft. 13, No prisoners.

OXFORD CIRCUIT.

BERKSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at READING.

GAOLER, The Widow fVifeman , afterwards JohnUU-, now his Widow. Reading. Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 15: 10.

Felons, o: 14: 4.

Transports, - 2:2:0 each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, three pence a day each. Garnish, Debtors, £0:5:6.

Felons, 0:2:6.

Number, Debtors* Felons &c. Debtor* Felon* fcc.

773> Dec. 11, 11. II. 1776, Sep. aj, 3> 8.

1774, July 29, 10, 6. 1779, April 21, 9> 9. Impressed 19.

1776, Jan. 1, 9» »S- 1782, March $, >9. ti.

CHAPLAIN,

Duty,

Salary,

SURGEON*

Salary,

Rev. Mr. Webster.

Sunday and Wednesday.

£31: 10: o.

Mr. Tjlkard.

£to for gaol and bridewell.

Xx

READING.

BERKSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

33*

lunic READING.

COUKTT

Gut. The following verses are written over the debtors grate to the street:

Oh ye whose hoars exempt from lorrow flow.

Behold the feat of pain and want and woe:

Think, while your hands th* entreated alms extend.

That what to ns ye give, to God ye lend.

ti>jiu. THIS gaol is too small for the general number of prisoners. Debtors and felons have their courts separated only by iron rails. The former have a kitchen: and for the master’s-fide many rooms; and now a free ward. Felons, one day-room for men and women.. The night-room for men is a large dungeon down four steps: the prisoners broke out lately. A separate night-room for women. The turnkey has now a lodging-ioom, over the felons dungeon, with an alarm-bell; so that an escape will be more difficult. Near this is the condemned room (11 feet by io). There is lately fitted up a small room for an infirmary j and another room or two: but no provision made for leparating men-felons at night, except the convicts, who have now two rooms and a small court on the debtors fide. Transports have not the king's allowance of is. 6d. a week. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. No straw: ofienfive sewers. The chapel is much too finall. The act for preserving the health of prisoners was painted on a board in the debtors court -, and at my last visit, the rules and orders. At the Lent assize in 1782, none of the prisoners attended at church. I observed that the 'women were not only chained together by their hands, but had heavy irons also on their legs, as they were conducted to the fefCons house.

When felons come to this prison, they are washed, and' clothes provided by the county arc put on. The men have a Russia-drab coat and breeches, a flannel waiftcoac, two check shirts, and two pair of yarn hole: the women, a linley woolfey gown and petticoat, a flannel petticoat, two dowlas Ihifts, two pair of yarn hose. Their own clothes are ticketed and hung up till the quarter lessions or assizes; when they put them on again to appear in on trial. Afterwards the county-clothes are washed, mended, and purified in an oven, for the use of future criminals. The clothing aforesaid for twenty men and five women cost only £26: 6: 8.—A gentleman sent to this gaol for the prisoners thirty-six rugs or coverlets which are now worn out.

The Roles and Orders of this Gaol as settled by the High-Sheriff and Jofiices for this County 1731.

£. S. D.

Lodging for each debtor per week if fornilbed by the gaoler, for each bed,. - -030

If occupied by two prisoners, each prisoner - - - .016

On the discharge of a debtor, gaolers fee on each warrant - - o 13 4

T ornkey ditto - - - , - o a 6

The toinkey to attend the prisoners three times a day to bring them iiich provisions and necessaries as Stall be required, vie. Fos the hoar of brtakfalt, from nine to ten;—for dinner, from twelve to a(4—for Tapper, from fix to feren.

COUNTY

Oxford Circuit.

U E R K S H I R Tl.

J39

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

HEADING. This is also the town bridewell. It was formerly a church, and is a spacious room, with four dark fulFocating huts on one fide for night-rooms, one for men 16 feet by lof and 64. high: aperture in the door 8 inches by $: straw worn to dull, not changed for four months: one for women ij feet 8 inches by 10 feet 9 inches; aperture in the door 7 inches by j: the two other rooms less.—The county pays rent to the corporation.—It is dirty, and out of repair. Men and women are together in the day-time. No court: no water: allowance to felons, three pence a day j and to petty offenders, two pint loaves each, every Sunday, and one every week-day. Keeper’s salary, £18 from the county; £2 from the town: fees, 4 s. 4 J. no table: licence for beer: half the profit of the prisoners work: £2 a year to find them straw. Clauses agaiitft spirituous liquors hung up: and there were on a board, some orders to be observed, approved, by J. P. Andrews and Peri. Collins, ytiftices, April 18, 1778.*

1776, Jan. 1, Prisoners 6. 1779, April at, Prisoners 7.

----- Nov. 1, - - 6. 1782, March 5, ij.

ABINGDON. Two dirty day-rooms j and three offensive night-rooms: that for men 8 feet square: one of the women’s, 9 by 8 5 the other 4^ feet square 1 the straw, worn to dull, swarmed with vermin: no court: no water accessible to prisoners. The petty offenders were in irons: at my last visit, eight were women. Allowance, if felons, three pence a day. Keeper’s salary, £18: fees, 4s. Sfd. no table. At all my visits the prisoners had no employment.

776, Jan. 2, Prisoners 3. 1782, Dec. 25, Prisoners 13. Def. t-

1779> Apr. 22, - - 3.

HEADING TOWN GAOL or Compter.

Two rooms in a public house (the Reading Arms) belonging to the town. The el deft sergeant has generally the refusal of it. No court: no water. Felons allowance, three pence a day. Keeper no salary: fees, 41. etd. notable.

1776, Nov. 1, Debtors 2. <782, March 5, Prisoners o.

1779, April 21, Prisoners o.

By a letter I received, Jan. 1784, -from the Rev. Mr. Hedgiinfan, I am informed, that Mr. Wtbjttr, the late chaplain to the gaol, h dead, and that Mr. Hodgkinfon is appointed to succeed him at the gaol; and also to attend this bridewell on Sundays and Fridays, with a salary of £10: 10: o from the county, and the fame from the town. He also acquaints me with some alterations both here and at the gaol, which I hope may prove beneficial; but as I never mention any particulars except front 'ey vwn inspeBion on the days marked for my several visits, I must beg to be excused from noticing the m.

X x 2 ABINGDON

Bride-

wells.

BERKSHIRE.

OiroiD Circuit.

ABINGDON Town Gaol. Several rooms pver a gate-way. The first floor fiar debtors: above are rooms for felons &c. No court: no fewer: no water ac-ccifible to prisoners. Allowance to felons, three pence a day. Keeper, one of the sergeants at mace: nofalary: fees, debtors 31. e,i. felons 6 s. 8 i. notable: licence for beer.

1779, April 23, Debtor 1. Felons &c. o.

1782, Dec. 2j, - - 1. - - - 3.

WINDSOR Castle Prison, for Debtors. I need not observe that his Majesty is proprietor. The duke of Montague is constable: he appoints a janitor with a salary: the janitor appoints a deputy, who for a house rent-free, and certain perquisites, does the duty. The prison out of repair. It consists of three rooms on the first floor and three rooms over them.

At my last visit I found that the old keeper had been murdered in the tap-room by a soldier, who also killed another, and was then Ihot himself. This is not the first instance I have known of persons being murdered in the tap-room of gaols. Such are the bad effects of felling liquors in prisons.

The preamble in the table of fees for the honour and castle of Wissdfor recites, “ that complaint having been made to me of (bme abuses and irregularities commined in demanding and receiving fees—the table being defaced, lo that the “ words and figures are hardly legible,” See. This table was made May 10th, the first year of George II. 1728. subscribed CarltjLe. There seems the fame ground of complaint with respect to the fre/ent table being defaced. As the fees are lower here than in most other prisons, the table should be preserved to prevent impositions.

1776, March 1, Prisoners 2.

'779. - - i-

1782, Nov. 1, - - o.

WINDSOR Town Gaol. Two rooms on the first floor; a chimney in one: no court: no water, though laid in to the adjoining house. Keeper the cryer.; fells beer: no salary: fees, 6 s. Sd. notable. Allowance, three pence a day.

1776, March 1, Prisoners 3.

1779. - - 1.

1782, Nov. 1, o.

WALLINGFORD Town Gaol. Two rooms under the council-chamber: one of them, called the Bailiff's Ward, is for debtors; the other (planked round) is for felons. Under them is a large dungeon, filled with market benches for Sails, &c.

1776, Nov. 1, Deserter 1. 1779, Oft. ao, Prisoners o.

1779, Apr. 22, Prisoner 1. 1782, Dec. 25, - o.

OXFORD-

Oxford Circuit.

OXFORDSHIRE.

34-*

COUNTT GAOL, OXFORD CASTLE.

GAOLER, Solomon Wisdom.

Salary, {,10.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 9: 2.

Felons, o: 1$: 10.

Transports, He made a bill of the expence.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, County, i6d. each per week in bread; City, u. (See Remarks.) Garnish, cancelled.

N umber. Debtors. Felons tec. Debtors. Felons ttc.

1773, Nov. 26, 14. 13- 1779, Feb. 2j, >2. »s-

1774, July 4> u. 17- —— July 29, l3> 4-

J776, Jan. a. «3> IO. 1782, April28, 16, 10.

— oa. 3i. 7» »4- Dec. 25, 2S> 3i-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Sieinton, now Rev. Mr. Cotton.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday; the sacrament four times a year. Salary, £50, now £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Rawlins.

Salary, £i$ for felons.

Oxford.

FOR the castle gaol the county pays £40 a year to Mr. Etty, who holds it of Christ church college on lease. Debtors apartments small; and not enow of them for the general number of prisoners. No free ward: for lodging even in the tower on their own beds they must pay 1 s. 6d. a week: Jee the table. Their court is too small. Felons day-room or hall for men and women down 5 steps, 13 feet by 11, the men’s dungeon (i8f feet by 164), down 5 more; only small apertures: the women’s night-room 6 i feet by feet 2 inches. The court common to both, 29 feet by 23. The gaoler has a Ipacious garden.

Since the north-gate was taken down, this prison has been also the City gaol: for which Mr. Wisdom has £j a year.—In 1773, eleven died of the small-pox. In 1774, that distemper still in the gaol: in 1775, one debtor died of it in May; three debtors and a petty offender in June: three recovered. No infirmary: no bath: no straw: the prisoners lie in their clothes on mats. The men’s dungeon swarms with vermin; yet not white-washed for many years.—Of the thirty-one felons &c. in 1782, fifteen were fines.—The act for preferring the health of prisoners not

hung

34*

OXFORDSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

Oxrouo

Castle.

"hung up.—In April 178:, one of the prisoners was a woman committed for contempt, with no charge or fine. The warrant runs, “ As Royal Power ought “ not to be wanting to the holy church in its complaints—attach—till Ihe has " made satisfaction to the holy church—as well for the contempt—as for the injury “ done unto it.”

Thomas Horde, who was confined here for some offence again!!: government, built the chapel. After his discharge, he had bequeathed £14 a year for a chaplain; and as much to the prisoners. But finding some difficulties would obstruct the execution of that bequest, he altered it, August 6th, 1709, to a legacy of £24 a year, to be distributed among prisoners of both forts, at £z a month. For the payment, he bound an estate in Oxfordshire: and to make up any deficiency of that estate, he bound an estate in Berkshire. But this estate having been recovered against the charity since his death, the prisoners have novo only thirty-three shillings a month, which was paid by the reftor of Lincoln college, and is now paid by the principal of Trinity, who are always two of the twelve trustees. A memorial of the proc-efs and result of Mr. Horde’s benevolent intention hangs up in the gaol. I have a copy of it; too long to transcribe.

There is another legacy to prisoners of both forts; 8s. 8d. paid quarterly from Magdalen college. From which also in Lent there is about forty shillings, commonly called forfeit-money. Debtors have in common every Saturday six pounds of mutton; lent by a gentleman of Christ church college. From two other colleges they have in bread about is. a week. Christ church and New college fend them broth; generally three times in a fortnight: the prisoners pay four pence to the man who brings it.

It is very probable, that the rooms in this castle are the fame as the prisoners occupied at the time of the Black Assize. The wards, passages and staircases are close and offeniive; so that if crowded, 1 should not greatly wonder to hear of another fatal ejfize at Oxford.*—At my last visit some of the debtors rooms were white-washed.

* Mr. Wificm (the gaoler) told me that some years ago, wanting to -build a little hovel, and digging of stones for the purpose, from the roins of the court, which was formerly in the cattle, he found under them a complete ikeleton with light chains on the legs; the links very small. These were, probably, the bones of a malefactor who died in cenrt of the dittemper at the Black JJJkx mentioned page 9.

At several of my visits to this city, I walked over the Cttmtj Hs/piud; and as it is a modern Ihewy building, and may perhaps be taken as a model for others of the fame kind, I hope to be exculed in making a few remarks upon it. The ttories are too low; the height of the loftiest wards not being tbove fifteen feet. From this fault, and the dofenefs of the windows, which I always found ihut, the wards, especially the mew's, are offensive beyond conception. The sewers are not sufficiently attended to—the bed*, improperly, have tetters—and the kitchen is not well placed. The fan-lights over she doors of the wards, in this, as in many other hospitals, are glazed. Were they open, it woald gTeatly tend to purify- the air; or, at lcatt, the noxious effluvia would become lo Icnlible through the rett of the honle, as might induce the matron, and the gentlemen who only attend in the com. imttcc-room, to iwtijl upon effectual means being used for a proper ventilation of the wards.

The

Oxford Circuit. OXFORDSHIRE.

The felons day room is paved with flat stones, in consequence of their taking up the pebbles for defence) after an. attempt to escape. For the same reason their court should be thus paved.

Oxfordjbirtt to wit, Michaelmas Sessions—8th George II.—1734.

A Table of Fees—and Chamber-Rent—settled—in. pursuance of an Ad—for the Relief of

Debtors &c.

To the master-keeper for every warraot charged upon any debtor To the under-keeper -

To him for every other warrant .....

To the mailer-keeper for every prisoner committed by any jttftice of peace for treason, felony, or any other misdemeanour; or committed in court To the under-keeper ......

To the matter-keeper for receiving and entering every declaration against any debtor -To his certificate that no declaration filed ....

For a copy of every sheriff’s warrant ....

For a copy of every other warrant ....

Every prisoner that lyeth in the great chamber on the gaol fide in the keeper's lodgings pays by the week -----

Every prisoner that lyeth in any other room or chamber in the keeper's lodgings on the gaol fide payeth by the*week -----

Every prisoner that lyeth in the great room in the tower upon his own bed payeth by the week

Every prisoner that lyeth in the said great room on the keeper's bed payeth by the week

Quorum) have perused the Fees and Chamber-Rent above mentioned and do—allow thereof and direct the fame to be hung up. in<a Table in some open and public Room or Place in the said CafUe there to remain and be resorted to by every Prisoner as Occasion shall require.

c 3. D.

0 6 8

0 2 6

0 t 0

0 *3 4

0 2 6

0 2 0

0 1 0

0 1 0

0 1 6

0 a c

0 2 6

0 1 6

0. L. 8

are of the

JVtllM Helm*!) Vice-chancellor. John Drivel

Thomas Blackall.

John mm*.

Seen.and allowed

The* Pardo Philip Powys.

E. Probyn J. COMYKS.

CO UNTY BRIDEWELLS.

THAME. I was informed that this house, built in 1708, was given to the county for a bridewell; but the greatest part of it is now a parish work-house. For the prison there is only left, up stairs, a common day-room, and two small insecure lodging-rooms: and down 11 steps a dungeon, in which are three night-rooms,

the

343

Oxford

Castle.

Bride

WELLS.

344

Bride-

wells.

OXFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

the Mu, each 9 feet by 7. If the house was put into good repair, and the whole used as a bridewell, it would be a commodious one. Then there would be no need of fending petty offenders, as is now done, to the county gaol: nor of locking up all day those few that are committed hither, men and women in the fame room: nor of confining either sex at night in the cubs. No allowance: no employment at my first victs, but in Feb. 1779, the prisoners were carding and spinning: no water acccffible to prisoners: no sewers. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £\6: fees, 41. 6d. notable.

At my two first visits the keeper fanned the work-house and the rest of the poor at £480 a year for the whole maintenance, clothing, medicines, &c. At my twolaft visits, he farmed them at £500. In 1782, the prison was quite out of repair and insecure.—From midsummer 1778 to midsummer 1779, the number committed to this prison was twenty-fixto 1780, nine;—to 1781, eighteen;— to 178c, fourteen.

1776, Jan. 3, Prisoners 2. 1779, Oft. 20, Prisoners o.

-----Nov. 2, - 3. 1782, April 28, - - o.

1779, Feb. 2j, - - 4. Oft. 26, - - 1.

"WITNEY. One day-room (16 feet inches by 14 feet 4) for men and women: two night-rooms adjoining (9 feet 2 inches by 6 feet 7, and 6 4- feet high); with only a grate of 9 inches square in each door. The prison is not secure. No allowance but to the sick, who have six-pence a day and medicines. No chimney: no straw: no water. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £20: fees, 44. 2 d. no table.

At my last visit 1 found a room built for men 164 feet by 124, in which are two cells 7 feet by 4f with apertures in the doors 9 inches square. Up stairs are two rooms for the sick (9 feet 2 inches by 3 feet 4, and 6 feet j inches high), with apertures in the doors of 14 inches by 12. No chimney.

The house does not belong to the county: the prison is in the court-yard of the keeper’s house, for which he pays £14: 14:0 a year. Prisoners have no use of the court; their window was formerly accessible to passengers. I then saw a crowd cf men talking at the grate with the prisoners, who were all of them women; and was informed there was sometimes riot and confusion on such occasions.

At my visit in 1779, the prisoners were at work: the keeper now is a manu-fafturer, and employs them. He pays them for their work, two pence a pound for the chant, and three-halfpence for the Jhcot; so that each earns (as he said) about three pence a day.

To

Oxford Circuit.

OXFORDSHIRE.

345

To this prison were committed. WlTKEY

In the year 1773, Prisoners 49. In 1779, Prisoners 5>- Bride- well.

1774. - - 44- 1780, - - 36-

177 5> ' - 73- 1781, - - 38-

ToOft.31, 1776, - - 67.

The most at any one time 18.

When I was there in 1776, Oft. 31, Prisoners 6.

1779, Feb. 26, - - 7-

1782, Oft. 26, 2.

OXFORD City Bridewell. Two garrets in the keeper’s house: no court: no water. Allowance, i«. \d. each per week in bread. Salary, £5: fees, 31. ^d. no table.

1782, Dec. 25, One felon from the cattle, being king’s evidence.

OXFORD University Bridewell. Two garrets in the keeper’s house.

1782, Dec. 2j, No prisoners.

BANBURY Town Gaol. This prison (built 1706) has two rooms below, one of which is called the gaol, the other the bridewell; and one room up stairs for debtors who can pay 2 s. 6 d. a week. Allowance to felons 4d. a day. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Salary none: gaoler keeps a public house, and pays rent £6 a year. Fees, debtors and felons 13/. 4d. bridewell prisoners 6s. 8d.

1782, April 30, No prisoners.

HENLEY Town Gaol. Near the town-hall. Two rooms or -cages (6-J- feet by 5-j), which open into a passage 3f feet wide. No court: no fewer: no water. Keeper, town-sergeant; licence for beer. Fees, one shilling for every prisoner the first night, and six-pence every night after.

1782, Dec. 26, Prisoners 4.

Yy

WORCESTERSHIRE.

J46

WORCESTERSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

WoECIW

T£*.

Rixmi.

COUNTY GAOL, WORCESTER CASTLE.

GAOLER, William Crane, then his Widow; afterwards "John Ampblett, now his Widow.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, o: 9: 2.

Felons, 0:15: 10.

Transports, No benefit to the gaoler. Clerk of the peace conrrafted’with the merchants.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, three-pennyworth of bread a day each (weight Sep. 1783,

I lb. 13CZ.J.

Gamifh, £0: 2: 6-.

Number, >77 Jr Nov. 23, Debtors. Fdcttt 4c c. >5. >7-

1774-. July 2, >3. 12.

1/75. Dec. 1, 25»- I7*

1776> Sep. 10, 9> IO.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Teller. Duty, Friday.

Salary, £20.

Debtor*. Felon* Ice.

1779, May 18, >9. 8.

1782, April 25, >s. 7. Desertr i

1783, Sep. 28, 26, 33-

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Hallward.

none: he makes a bill.

THE Castle-yard is spacious: county members are chosen in it. In the gaoler’s

house are eleven good lodging-rooms for mailer's fide debtors; and two small day-rooms; one of which is for common-fide debtors; one of these was used, at my former visits, as a chapel; but now there is a larger and more convenient room for that purpose. The two free wards, or night-rooms for debtors, are at another part of the yard. The way to them is through the women-felons night-room, which has no window. The day-room (called the round house) for men and women-felons is in the middle of the area; only 14 feet by 12.* Near it is a hand-ventilator (which is kept in order for a guinea a year) for airing the men-felons dungeon, which is 26 steps under ground, and circular, 18 feet diameter, with barrack-bedsteads. Over it is an aperture

The Magistrates may be fully convinced of the impropriety and {hocking indecency of having only one dav-room, if they examine the women lately feat from this gaol to the bridewell-

in

Oxford Circuit.

WORCESTERSHIRE.

347

in the court, 3 feet diameter, with iron grates. The felons work the ventilator Woac'et-cheerfully about a quarter of an hour before they go down, and as long when they come up j for it freshens and cools the dungeon amazingly: we could hardly keep our candle burning below while it was working.* There is another very damp dungeon 1 ji feet square, the window (18 inches by 12) even with the ground. Straw, £4 a year. Excellent water at a pump in the yard. No infirmary. Mr. Halltvard the surgeon caught the gaol-fever some years ago, and has ever since been fearful of going into the dungeon: when any felon is sick' there, he orders him to be brought out.

The small-pox was in this gaol; and at my tail; vilit I found the gaol-fever prevailing, which had carried off some of the prisoners, the gaoler, and Dr. Johnfitm, a physician, whole humanity had led him to attend the prison.f Two rooms were taken from the bridewell for the sick, who lay in their clothes on straw. At my request, the irons of those who were ill were taken off.

The uneasy lituation of the prisoners at night in the horrid dungeon, has, I doubt not, been one cause of their illness; for even in this strong and deep dungeon, prisoners (as in too many other gaols) are all night chained together, by a heavy chain through the links in their fetters and iron rings fattened to the floor.

There is now a ufefpfs tub lined with lead, called a bath. Such a bath as there is in the county infirmary, might save the lives of many prisoners.

The gaoler pays £2: 19: o window-tax. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. The act for preserving the health of prisoners is written on paper, and hung up.

'This prtfon may be made commodious by separate wards, day-rooms, courts, &c.

There is round it much ground belonging to the county.

The celebrated contrivance of Ventilators has been so little attended to in practice, that in all the prisons in this kingdom, there are but fix of these machines; viz. at Maidftem and BiJ/crd, where they arc worked with fails; at Louden bridtvitll, Worcefiir castle, StaJirJ, and Shmajlmy; and the two latter have not been used for many years pall. This sufficiently ihews, how liable any new regulation is to fall into neglect, if not constantly the object of care and attention. With respect to ventilators, however, 1 am now fully confirmed in an opinion 1 have long entertained, that they are inadequate to the purpose of preventing, and ilill more of eradicating, the gaol-diltemper, while the use of dungeons is continued.

t A letter from Dr. JohnJione, senior, dated the 18th of December 1783; informs me of the following fact. ‘ ‘ A prisoner some time ago dismissed from the jail here, carried the fever to his own family ‘‘ in Droilnvych, fix miles from this place, and famous for its salt springs and works; a place where “ fevers have seldom been heard of bat from contagion: the contagion from the above occasion has “ spread to the poor neighbours of the family above-mentioned, and fourteen individuals have already died of it.”

Y y2

CiV.lj

WORCESTERSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

Til

Castle.

Gfvtty tfWsrnJltr* A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of the said County pursuant to a Statute made in the Second Year of his Majesty King George the Second.

For the difdurge of every debtor, to the gaoler To the turnkey -

For the discharge of every felon, to the gaoler

To the turnkey ...

For the discharge of every deserter, to the gaoler To the turnkey -

For the lodging of every prisoner in the hoofe frr week For signing every certificate -

£ S. D.

060 o 2*6

0 *3 4

0.2 6

o 6 8

026 026 o 1 0

Allowed according to the said Statute by us

7 Soley IV Bromley Fr9 Meyfiy.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WORCESTER.

This prison joins to the castle. It is too close. Here are two work-rooms; and the prisoners were employed, beating hemp, spinning, &c. Keeper has half the profit. Two courts. Keeper’s salary, £10: fees, if. 4i. Straw, ten shillings a quarter: no other allowance. At my visits in 1779 and 178a the prison was remarkably clean. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. At my last visit fix new rooms were added; and each prisoner had a three-penny loaf a day, weight 1 lh- Ijez-

If there were a chapel in the county gaol (the castle), these prisoners might (as those in Shrewsbury bridewell) have the privilege of public worship.

177 j, Dec. 1, Prisoners 3. 178a, April 2j, Prisoners 3.

1776, Sep. 10, - - 18. 1783, Sep. 28, - - 23.

1779, May 18, - - 6.

WORCESTER

Oxford Circuit.

WORCESTERSHIRE.

349!

WORCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Richard George. now his Widow.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0:9:2.

Felons, o: 5: o.

Transports, No benefit to the gaoler.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, three pence aday each.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number, Debtors. Felons Ac. Debtors. Felons Ac.

1773, N0W23, 4, $ 1779, May 18, 6, 4. Def. 2. Imp. 3

177S> Dec- r> J> O. 1782, Apr. 25, 4» 2- 3-

1776, Sep. 10, 4, O. 1783, Sep. 28, 7. 5 »-

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, Mr. Hallward.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

THIS is also the city bridewell. The debtors free ward is spacious. Only one day-room for criminals, over which there is now a work-room. One common court; another might be taken from the keeper’s large garden. At my former visits he paid window-tax; which he said brought him under the disagreeable necelfity of flopping up some windows. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

City tf Worttjitr. A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of the said City purfqant to a Statute made in the thirty-second year of the reign of his late Majesty King Gtcrgt the Second.

For the discharge of every debtor to the gaoler and turnkey . £ . O $. 9 Z>. X

The like of every felon ... - O 5 0

For the lodging of every prisoner in the house per week - - O 2 6

For the copy of every commitment - - O 1 0

On the delivery of every declaration - - 0 1 0

Allowed according to the said Statute by us Edtod IVtlEmgs. Mayor Tho Gilts

Epiphany Sessions 1771. TV Hadtn Tim} Edwards.

At the Lent Assize 1771 allowed by us E. Willes W: H: Ashurst.

KIDDERMINSTER Town Gaol. Two rooms called dungeons about 10 feet by 8, down 6 Heps, under the market-house. No court: no water: no fewer. The cryer is keeper, has a shilling a month for attendance, and a shilling for straw. 1779, Aug. 30, No prisoners.

Woacis-

TEE.

Remarks.

STAFFORD-

STAFFORDSHIRE.

Oxrou> Cikcvit.

J5°

COUNTY GAOL at STAFFORD.

STtrret*. GAOLER, William Scott, now gj/ttliton Scott.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors,: 17: 4.

Felons, 0:15: 10. Transports, £6 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, ? each per week 15i. bread, and gd. cheese; and for the Felons, 5 felons 3 Cwt. of coals a week from Michaelmas to May-day.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 6.

Felons, 0:1:0.

Number, Mm. Fdntt& Debm FcksuAc.

1773, ^ov- 39, 20. 1779, May ty, 40, 14. Impressed 11.

1774, April 1, 44s 17. 1782, Nov. 24, 38, 20. Deserter 1.

«77>. Nov.tj, 40, 18.

CHAPLAIN,

Duty,

Salary,

SURGEON,

Salary,

Rev. Mr. Unett.

Sunday, WednesHay, Friday; a sermon once in about two months, augmented from £20 to £30.

Mr. Ward, now Mr. Richard Hughes.

£20. (Set Remarks.)

THIS gaol is too small for the number of prisoners. The debtors court and free-ward are ipacious. In the latter is a band-ventilator for the men-fclons dungeon which is under it; but being out of repair, has not been used for many years. Were the county to allow the linall sum of a guinea a year, it might always be kept in cadet, as is done, m Worcester castle. An alarm-bell in this crowded gaol would be very proper.—Only one day-room for men and women-felons, down 3 steps, 15 seer by 1;, and 6 feet 3 inches high.* The dungeon where the men-felons Geep is very dose and offensive, having no window, and is about 2 feet below the passage. The felons court is alib too {mail, and the gaoler keeps his poultry in it. There is only one fewer and that is quite exposed. It is pity that the dream just oh

1 sight kcic proper!; refer the wagistrates to what has been laid in the first note under Werafn t/i; and faxtha {sbsi110 their conhdention, that whea felons are 1K0 confined together at night, --iter nee «dr isfirnA each other is vickednef*. and rob one another; bat one ingenious nun nay rfre the etcipe of nszr; u late!/ happened at Dirty, MrjJJiiit, he.

the

Oxford Circuit.

STAFFORDSHIRE.

35*

the outftde of the walls is not within them. I was pleased to fee plenty of clean; straw in the men’s and women's dungeons; and found it was owing to the generous and exemplary practice of net farming it, but allowing the gaoler to order it whenever wanted> and the county paying for it themselves* The chapel is small, and at the top of the house. It is painful for prisoners loaded with irons to go up and down the Hairs. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. No infirmary: no bath.

Mr. Hughes is apothecary to the county infirmary) which is near the gaol. He receives £8 of the salary of £20 allowed by the county; the remaining £12 is paid to the infirmary for drugs.

A Table of Fees—-settled at die General Quarter Sessions—i8tb day of April 1732.

£. S. D.

For entering the aftioa whereon each prisoner is fir# brought into enstody either on prueft capiat latitatg exeentiem or writ of extern ad capiendum and discharging each prisoner by Writ of JuperJedtas or otherwise - - . - -.0134

For receiving and entering every declaration delivered again# prisoners to be paid by the

plaintiff in such aAioir - - - - o a o

For a certificate lor want of a declaration in order to foe oat a writ of/kperfedea* - 036

For a copy of each warrant again# each prisoner - - - - 0 1 6

For the under keeper or turnkey upon every action or writ - - - o z 6

For the under keeper or turnkey upon discharging of each prisoner by fnperfedtas or

otherwise - - - - a 1 6

LODGINGS.

Every prisoner that lies in the master’s-fide of the gaol in a bed provided by the keeper of

the gaol shall pay ptr week if a bed to himself - - - -020

If two prisoners or more lye together in one bed then between them all - >026

Every prisoner that lies in the upper rooms or garret in a bed and bedding foand by the

keeper of the gaol {hall pay per week - > - >010

And if two prifobers lie together then - - - - *01$

Every prisoner that lies in the same side and finds his own Iinnen and bedsteads - 006

Every prisoner that lies in the county chamber shall pay nothing - -000

E Littleton Hum: ffjrfy Fish Littleton R. Rider fn0. Dolphin*

We the Judges of Affizetnd Gaol Delivery of the Oxford Circuit hare perused and do approve of the above written Table of Fees this zd day of Aogu# Jxno Dm. 1732.

£ PacBYS J Cqkyvs

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

STAFFORD. At the North-gate. Three rooms for men and two for women. A room below (called the dungeon) with four apertures about j inches (quart. No employment. Prisoners always (hut up, and in irons > the small court not secure. Keeper's salary, £25. Fees, gs. 6i. no table. Allowance for bread and cheele the lame as at the gaol: and now two hundred weight of coals.* week

from

CoU.TT

Gaol.

Btitrs.

Walt*.

STAFFORDSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

3j'-

BU0£*

WILLS.

from Michaelmas to May-day. The keeper a woman, who is the county taker. She appoints a man, who, for living rent free, looks after the prisoners.

1775, Nov. 15, Prisoners 4.

1779* May »J> - - 9-

1782, Nov. 24, - -6.

WOLVERHAMPTON. Only two rooms about 12 feet square, viz. a common

day-room on the ground-floor; and a night-room above, for men: women deep in the day-room. The prison dirty, and most of the straw worn to dust. The court not secure: no water: no employment. 'Weekly allowance supplied by the keeper, in bread, fourteen pence: cheese, seven pence: straw, three pence. Keeper’s salary, £25: licence for beer: fees, 11. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

The prison is greatly out of repair 3 and so insecure, that prisoners, even for the slightest offences, are kept in irons. The county may redress this 3 for they have a large garden dose to the prison (which they did let with an old house on the spot) now occupied by the keeper. Sometimes, here are fourteen or fifteen prisoners, and to prevent fuffbeation, they are let out into the court, which is 174. feet by iyi-

1776, Sept. 11, Prisoners Men.

1779, Aug. 23, - - 2 Women.

1782, Nov. 25, - - 2 Men and 1 Woman.

LICHFIELD CITY and COUNTY GAOL and Bridewell.

Two dose cells 6f feet by y f, and 8 feet high. To thefo are added two new ones, and two rooms for debtors: a court is endofed, in which is an offensive feweT. The prison dirty, as is always the case where there is a number of dogs. A& for preferring the health of prisoners, and clauses against spirituous liquors, not hung up. No water accessible to prisoners :* no straw. Keeper’s salary, £2. Licence for beer: fees, 13J. 4d. no table. Allowance, 1 s. Si. a week.

1773. Nov. 20, Prisoners 2. 1779, Nov. 26, Debtors 3. Felons &c. 1.

17/6, Jan- 8; -I. 1782, -----2J, - - 2. - - - 2.

Water might be laid into the court at a small expence, as it is in a house adjoining: for “ HtBtr “ Beam, gentleman, gave by feoffment to eight feoffees lands and tenements within the county of “ StmgirJ, of the yearly value of £100 and upwards to fopport and maintain the publick conduits, “ cifferns and pipes, belonging to this city for ever.” This I copied from an inscription in Si. JKwy’s church in LicbfeU.

WALSALL

Oxford Circuit.

SHROPSHIRE.

WALSALL Town Gaol. Two rooms under the town-hall; that for debtors has a fire-place. In this (and many such prisons which I. have not mentioned) offenders are confined only fora night or two, till they are carried before a magistrate. And debtors have friends who resort to the windows.

1782, Nov. aj, No prisoners.

m

SHROPSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at SHREWSBURY.

GAOLER, Samuel IVtlding. Sdrews-

Salary, none. sosr.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 9:0.

Felons, o: 14: 4.'

Transports, £6:6:0 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, two iix-penny loaves a week each.

Felons, it. 4\d. in bread a week each.

Garnish, cancelled. (See Remarks.)

Number, Debtors. Felons fee. Debtors. FelojU fte.

1774.Mar.31, la, 18. 1779, May 15, 21, 18. Def. 1. Imp. 1.

1775.N0v.27, 16, 15. Aug. 24, 23> 10. - I.

1776, Sep. 12, 11, 24. 1782, June 23, 19> *9-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Humphreys, now Rev. Mr. Rowland.

Duty, Sunday and Thursday. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £3;.

SURGEON, Mr. Cooper, now Mr. Wheeler.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

APOTHECARY, Mr. James Wmall.

Salary, now ^10.

THIS prison was built, as by date in the debtors court, 1705.—Separate courts Remarks. for debtors and felons; but the latter have no water. For this reason, and because their day-room is in the debtors court, both debtors and felons are commonly together in that court. Commodious apartments for master’s-fide debtors: and two large free wards for the common-fide. For' felons there are two night-dungeons down 11 steps: that for men was a few years ago made more airy by an additional window: and might be freihened by a hand-ventilator which is in the room over the

Z z chapel.

354

Sfltzws* tr it COVKTT Gaol*

SHROPSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

chapel, bat has not been used for many yean. The women’s dungeon might also be frdhencd by the fame. The day-room for felons is final), tyi feet by 5^: a separate day-room is necessary to prevent the dreadful consequences of the men and women, being together. Mot of the women when moved to the bridewell are with child.

The county has cndolcd another court, which I thought had been designed for women, but it has not yet been used. Here arc three,large lamps in the court supplied at the county’s ezpence.

No infirmary: no bath: if the proposed improvements will be some protection against the gaol-fever, which of late years has prevailed here more than once, they will not secure prisoners against the finall-pox and other diseases. When the apothecary finds that a sick prisoner should have better diet, he orders the gaoler to provide it, and signs his bill for the amount; which is readily allowed by the justices at quarter sessions.

Of the 24 felons in September 1776, 14 were convicts for transportation. The county allowed transports convicted at quarter sessions as much as those convicted at assize had from the king’s allowance, viz. is. 6J. a week. In 1779, there were several convicts, one of whom had been ordered to the Thames in the summer assize

1777. At my last visit here were 6 convicts.

Mr. Wood, who, before the appointing of a chaplain, read' prayers three times a week, and had £5 a year, was employed in the fame service, and received of the chaplains the fame salary, till his death.—1 believe the magistrates made the chaplain’s salary £$ more, in favour of Mr. (Vend.

The justices of this county, at the general quarter sessions nth Jan. 1774, were so considerate and humane, as to prohibit the demanding from, prisoners at their entrance into this gaol, or into the county bridewell, any money for drink, by the name of garxish, or any other name: and to require that two or more fair copies of their said order should be hung up in the most public places of the gaol, for the inspection of debtors, as well as felons; that the unfortunate might not afterwards be imposed upon.

The clauses against spirituous liquors; the prohibition of garnish; and a new table of fees; were all hung up, and very conspicuous in the debtors hall; and these tables, with the act for preserving the health of prisoners, were hung up in the chapel.

Sinffiirt. A Table of the Rates and Fees to be taken by the Gaoler for the County of Salop, settled—by the Jnffices of the Peace for the said County—the 14th day of July 1778.

The Chamber Rent.

£ s- D-

To the gaoler fa lodging and his furniture on the auAer’s-fide, each person having a bed

to himself far week . - . o a 0

But if two lodge in the fame bed on their own ele&on, then each to pay per week. - 016

To the gaoler far lodging of each person in the garrets on the gaoler’s bed and furniture

per week - - - -OIO

That

Oxford Circuit.

SHROPSHIRE.

'That no person pay any rent dr money whatsoever for lodging on the common-fide unless

he ofed the gaoler’s'-bed and furniture, in which case he is to pay f<r week - e liott* No person shall be-moved oat of a room where he ss placed by the gaoler withost his own consent, or the eonfentof two justices of the peace for the raid county, or neglect of paying chamber-rent.

Fees for the Gaoler for Debtors*

To the gaoler for the commitment of each debtor - - o

To the gaoler for the discharge of each debtor - - - o

To the gaoler for entering in his books every charge upon such debtor - o

For the copy of every sheriff’s warrant (if demanded) - - o

But the debtors to have recourse to fee the hook of commitment (if demanded) gratis.

To the gaoler for every debtor if detained upon two or more actions, fifteen shillings, including the five shillings upon commitment and no more - - 6

For receiving and entering every declaration against debtors in custody - - ©

For every certificate in order for a fmfcrfcdttu, or in order to sue OUt a rule of court - o

Fees for the Gaoler for Felons or other Crimes.

To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner found guilty of felony If at assizes o To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner found guilty of felony If at sessions o To the gaoler for the discharge of every prisoner committed for a certain time, or fined and committed until paid, or bailed out of gaol, or superfeded by a justice or justices of the peace - O

But if continued in gaol three months or upwards - - - - o

For the copy of every commitment (if desired) - - - - o

For every certificate of commitment, in order to sue out a habeas corpus - o

The following Articles to be allowed by the County.

To the gaoler lor the discharge of every person charged with felony, or other crime, or as an accessary thereto, against whom no bill of jndiftmtnt shall be found by the grand Jury, or who on his or her trial shall be acquitted, or who shall be discharged by proclamation for want of prosecution - - If at affixes - o

If at sessions - o

5

3

i

I

*3

7

9

i

t

*3

9

D.

o

©

o

o

o

0

o

6

4

o

o

o

6

4

o

Cha*. Baldwyn, IV. T* Davenport, Smith, Justices.

August 13th 1778. Allowed and confirmed the above Table of Fees, by us

J. Skynner, G. Nares, Judges of Affiae*

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHREWSBURY.

THIS, like the county gaol, is too small: only one day-room for men and women, and a work-room. Two night-rooms above for women. In one of them I saw a poor young creature too ill to come down stairs; she was languiihing on the ftoor in a consumption. The night-room for men is a dungeon down ten steps. There is a small court with water. By means of a door from this into one of the

Z z ft gaol

m

Sbibws-

strar

County

Gaol.

Bride-

well.

SHROPSHIRE.

OzroxD Circuit,

356

Sfltgm-

io»t

Bripi-

will.

gaol courts, tbcft prisoners have a privilege (which few in bridewells enjoy) of attending public worflup in the chapel on Sunday.—Keeper’s salary, £jo. Fees at discharge of a felon, 8r; of one guilty of a misdemeanor, 61. 8i\ of a vagrant, 3/. 6d. Allowance, to each 11. t^d. a week in bread, and half a Cat. of coals weekly, from Michaelmas to the Lent assize. Little or no employment: keeper has half the profit.*

1774, Mar. 31, Prisoners 4. 1779, May ij, Prisoners 6.

*775. Nov. 27, - - 5. Aug. 24, - - 8.

1776, Sep. 12, - - 11. *782, June 23, - - 16.

SHREWSBURY TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL.

At the castle-gate. On the front is inscribed, “ In this house the poor of the town are set to work.—He that will not labour let trim not ’ eat. An. Dorn. 1636.” It confifis of sundry rooms on two floors over die gateway. A (mail court: no lesser: no water, though water is laid in to several houses very near: no employment. Allowance to criminals, dunce halfpence a day. Fees, debtors 5 s. 6 d.

criminals 3/. 6d. no table. Gaoler’s salary, (j,

*779. May ij, Prisoners - o.

-----Aug. 24, Debtor - 1.

178a, June 23, Petty Offenders 12.

LUDLOW Town Gaol, called Gaolford’s Tower, was an ancient prison, but was rebuilt, as appears by inscription on the front, in 1764. For felons &c. two lower rooms vaulted, about 15 feet square, with chimneys. Two rooms above, more spacious and airy, for debtors. Allowance, three halfpence a day. No court; no water. A sergeant at mace keeper, each of the three in annual rotation.

1774, July 1, Prisoners o. 1779, July 27, Prisoners 2.

»779, May 16, - o. Deserter 1. 1782, Sep. 27, - - o.

LUDLOW Town Bridewell. One room at the back of the work-house (14feet by 6+), with a bedstead. No fire-place: no window, aperture in the door 10 inches square.

1782, Sep. 27, No prisoners.

This is the tmij btmje cf itmdum for the county. The gaol being too finall and enclosed with bmildiags, and the windows of the bridewell opening into the courts of the gaol, if the whole were coo nested into a foe/fi jf and in, every convenience aught he made for labour and solitary confine-nret. A new gaol night then be bnslt that would do credit to the county.—I asn informed that Baron Adnv: ax the afore the xexh of July, 178a, laid n fine of £2000 on the county, to oblige the JnBaces to beild aonpewf. I am perfoaded, had the Baron known the fimtt tftbt gmtl. he would fiift have bid a fine fa the patpofo of rebuilding it.

HEREFORD-

Oxford Circuit.

HEREFORDSHIRE.

317

COUNTY GAOL at HEREFORD.

GAOLER, ^omat Ireland.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, ? . . .,

Felons, 5 Transports, £j-: io: o each. Licence, Beer.

4-

Hireford.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a three-penny loaf each, every other day. Garnish, £o: a: 6.

Number, Debton, Felons 6c, Debtot*. Felon. &C.

1774> Feb. 23, >4. 29. 1776, Sep. 9, 8, 3-

Aug. 9, 11, >3- 1779, May 17, *9* 9. Impressed 6.

1775. Dec, 2, >7» 4- 1782, Apr. 26, 23. 6.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Beylis, now Rev. Mr. Underwood.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday.

Salary, £$o. Twenty of it is a legacy of William Bridges, Esq. of Tiberton in this county.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. William Cam, now Mr. Thomas Cam. £1S> now i£ 20-

APARTMENTS, and court for master’s-fide debtors, spacious: but no free Remarks.. ward. A day-room for felons: the men's night-wards, the two tamps, were too close, 19 feet by 15*, but are lately made more commodious: their court behind the gaol is large, but the felons are not kept separate from the debtors. No infirmary: no bath: no draw or bedding. The chapel was very damp, but it is now floored and dry. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up. Here, as in other goals, several persons were drinking as in a common alehouse. Mr. Ireland, who has been there above forty years, said at one of my former visits, he never had a debtor who obtained the groats.

William Bridges, Esq. bequeathed £8 a year to poor prisoners: and on St. Thomas's day one shilling is given to each debtor, and six-pence to each felon, by legacy of Sir iTnmas White. No table of bequests. The table of fees not hung up.

TABLE

HEREFORDSHIRE.

Oxtoxd Circuit.

TABLE OF FEES.

Hticron

Couitt

Gaol.

Ac the General Quarter Srifions—held—at Hertford—in the fird week after the Feast of St. Thotoat the Martyr (to wit) the 14th of July in the 4th—of— Gtonce II—1730 Before Jsbm Stratford Esq. Edvard Goodrrt Bart. Herbert Embry Richard Hepton Esqrs. See. —purfuant to an Act for the Relief of Debtors 4tc.—It is ordered that the feveral—Sums herein after mentioned and no more may be taken.—

(That is to say)

For the entering of every action or process whereon a prisoner shall or may be charged To the turnkey or under keeper on each action -

For entering of the discharge, and for the discharge of every prisoner To the turnkey on the discharge of every prisoner .... For the receiving and entering every declaration delivered against the prisoners in custody To the turnkey upon every declaration

For a certificate for want of a declaration in order to take out a writ of fmptrftdtax For a copy of a warrant or commitment against each prisoner ... Every prisoner that lyes in the keeper’s lodgings in the ftieriff's ward in a single bed and Iheets, by the week -----

For two in a bed with iheets by the week -

Every prisoner that lyes in his own lodgings -

For two persons or more in their own lodgings each ...

£ So Do

0 3 6

0 1 0

0 6 8

0 1 0

0 2 0

0 0 6

0 3 6

0 2 6

0 2 6

0 l 6

0 1 6

0 1 0

y Stratford

R Utftm

Edwd. Gooiere H Attbrep

H Thomas Rogr. Hertford.

Ro. PmcE J. CoMYNS

The King’s Justices.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at HEREFORD,

Blidi- On the castle-grccn, is quite out of repair. Indeed it is not only ruinous, but wili. dangerous: a cross wall is parted a great way from the wall against which it abutted.

In the day-room there was a large quantity of water from the roof. No fire-place: offensive sewers: no court: no water: no dated allowance: no employment. Keeper's salary, £\o. He told me that a little before I came, a prisoner died after three weeks confinement. Six prisoners, whom I saw there at my first visit, complained of being almost famished. They were sent hither from the assize a few days before to bard labour (as the sentence usually runs) for six months. The justices had ordered the keeper to supply each of them daily with a two-penny loaf: but he had neglefied them. They broke out soon after.

The above was the date of this prison in 1776.—In 1779 they were repairing it; for the cross wall had fallen in But the spot on which it is built is so confined, that it cannot be convenient. There are only two rooms for work and lodging for both sexes, 22 feet 9 inches by 21: no chimneys: no straw: as there is no court,

the

Oxford Circuit. HEREFORDSHIRE. jgg

the sewers make the rooms very unhealthy. It might have been better, if the gentle- He a trots men had erected the bridewell in one of the two very ipacious gardens joining to Butt-

the county gaol, and occupied by the gaoler; then, if they had no chapel, the prisoners (as those in Shrewsbury bridewell) might have had the privilege of public worship in the county gaol—the women in irons.

1774, Aug. 9, Prisoners 6. 1779, May 17, Prisoners in county-gaol.

1775, Dec. 3, - - o. 1782, April 26, Prisoners 4-.

1776, Sep. 9, - - r.

HEREFORD City Gaol, is one of the gates. The debtors rooms are

commodious; and they have a little court. The lower room for felons too dole:

allowance to them, ad. a day. The gaol clean, but out of repair. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper-a widow: salary none: fees, 6s. id. notable.

1776, Sep. 9, Debtors 3. Felons o.

1779, May 17, - - 4- - - o.

1782, April 26, - - o. - - o. Deserter 1.

MONMOUTHSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at MONMOUTH.

GAOLER, John Haver el; James Baker; his Widow, now James Baker.

Salary, none. £20 a year to supply felons as below.

Fees, Debtors, ? r, . 0 . I0-Felons, j Transports,£6 each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, one-pennyworth of bread a day each , now twelve-pennyworth a week (weight of a fenny loaf, OS. 1782,7 oz.).

Garnish, £0: >.: 6.

Number, Debtors, Felons tec. Debtors. Felons tec.

1774, Feb. 23, 10, 12. 1776, Sep. s> 6, 9

Aug. 10, 9» 16. 1779, June 2, 6, 12.

1775, Dec. 4. 5> 8.. 1782, oa. 24, to I.

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, Mr. Powell.

Salary, £10: 10: O, augmented to £12: 12: o-

MONMOCTH.

3*°

MONMOUTHSHIRE.

Oxtobd Circuit.

RtMAUS.

MONMOUTH.

ONLY one coon: a finall day-room and fix bed-rooms for debtors. Felons night-room at the top of the house, 32 feet by 15, with only one window about 3 fcctsquare. Besides the difficulty of going duly up and down in irons; when water is to be carried fb high, and the ftaircaic, like this, is narrow and inconvenient, a room is seldom ckan and healthy. This cannot be lb, if it be crowded. At my first visit io 1774, they had the gad-fever, of which J. Daverel and several of his prisoners, and (bmeof their friends died.—No bath: no infirmary: there is room to build one at the bottom of the court, where the county has been at the uanecessary expence of building a itable. If the biewhouse were used for a felons day-room, men and women might be separated.—After the mortality mentioned above, all the prisoners wen. new-clothed by the duke of Beaufort.

At my visit in 1779, ten of the twelve felons were convicts, four of them at the summer assize in 1775.—Ad for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

Mr. James Gabriel, senior, of this town, who died March 26, 1754 {at. 75), had been very kind to the prisoners in his life-time, and at his death left them ft00, which is veiled in the turnpike security: from which each prisoner receives by order of the Rev. Mr. Gairiel his son every quarter day a fix-penny loaf: but there is no memorial of the legacy hung up.

A Tmc of Deitois Fees as settled—by the several J aftices of the Peace for the County of Meemetl the 10th Angnft 1751: According to the Direction of ta Act of Parliament intituled &c.

Imfrimit for entering the action whereon each prisoner is first brought into costody either on pnetjs. capiat latitat execsSii* or writ of extern ad capiendum For entering and discharging every focond and other action upon preetft capiat latitat or eatcatiaa -----

For receiving and entering every declaration against prisoners in cnliody

For the certificate of the want of a declaration in order to fac ont a writ of faperjedeas

For a copy of each warrant against each prisoner -

For receiving and entering every warrant against each defendant in enstody

For the under keeper or turnkey upon each afirion and writ

LODGINGS.

Every prisoner that lies in the keeper's lodgings in the sheriff’s ward pays by the week Every prisoner that lies in the iheriff *$ ward in his own lodgings pays per week

The Names of the Justices who signed and allowed the above Fees.

£. S. D.

0184

o 13 4

020

068

® J . 4

026 026

o a 6

o t 6

Tie*. Margau Capd Herniary J*1- ^ttder Marge

Charles Vaa Junr. John Chamhre

J. Limit

E. Bradbury.

Examined and allowed by the

Hon1* Sir Thomas Dennison Kn*.

AS 0 TS s

Hon1* Mr. Baron Clive.

COUNTY

OXFORD'CmcVIT.

M O NM O U -T H S H I R E.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL, at USK.

This prison was formerly a chapel. On the ground-floor is a lodging-roomfor men (a i feet by 74J, and another for women. There are two rooms at top‘of the house, but I saw no prisoners there. The keeper’s wife told me that many years ago the prison was crowded; and herself, her father, who was then keeper, and many others of the family, had the gaol-fever: three of them, and several prisoners died of it. The danger of such a calamity for the future would be much lessened, if proper rooms' were built in the keeper’s large garden.

The rooms which are now built for the keeper are some ftnall improvement of this prison. There is a court with a pump. The prisoners allowance, two pence a day. The spinning-wheels, &c. are not provided by the county. The keeper has all the profit of the work. Salary, £21: licence for beer j clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Fees, gj. 6J. no table. This prison is now kept clean.

1774, Aug. 21, Prisoners 2. 1779, June 8, Prisoners 7.

1776, Sep. 6, - - j. 1782, Oft. 24, - - 2. Deserter 1.

MONMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

A good room on the first floor for debtors: over it one for felons, not secure. No court: no fewer: no water. Allowance to felons, two pence a day. Gaoler’s salary £4. Licence for beer: clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Fees, gj. 6 d. no table.

1779, June 2, Prisoners o.

1782, Oft. 24, Debtor 1. Petty offender t.

NEWPORT Town Gaol. Two rooms; one below, the ocher over the gateway; out of repair; no court; no fewer; no water.

1782, Oft. 24, No prisoners.

3*

Burns.

WE'LL.

GLOCESTERSH1RE.

3

GLOCESTERSHIRE.

Oxford Circuit.

G toe ester.

COUNTY GAOL, GLOCESTER CASTLE.

GAOLER, William ffiUiams, now Rthert Gila.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, - - £i: o: io>

Felons at Assize - o: 17: 8. at Qjuiter Sessions o: 3: 4.

Transports, £6 each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, each a fix-penny loaf in two days (gad beufcbold bread, might Sep. 1783, 3®. nez.J.*

Garnish, £0:1:6.

Number, Dtfaton. Fffacs kc Debtors. F«looi*c.

*773» Nov. 14, >5* 7- 779. Ju»e *« 6, 24-

1774, Aug. 8, 20, 4«. 1782, April27, »4. *4-

177S, Dec. j. *3. 24- Dec. 23, 38. 38.

1776, Sep. 5, 8, 35- 7*3. Sep- 30. 3°. 46.

Dec. 15, 10, 4i-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Evans.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEONS, Mefirs. Prwell and Mils.

Salary, none: they make a bill.

THE cafile is also one of the county bridewells: yet only, one court for all prisoners; and one day-room (11 feet 9 inches by 10 feet 7), for men and women-feions. The free ward for debtors is 19 feet by 11, which haring no window, part of the pi after wall is broke down for light and air. The night-room (the Main) for men-felons, though up many stone steps, is dofc and dark; and the floor is so ruinous, that it cannot be walked. Adjoining to the Mm, there are other night-rooms for fines, Ac. These have also their ieparale day-room. The whole prison was much out of repair, and had not been white-washed for many years. The upper rooms were the bridewell; but at my laftvifit they were used for an infirmary.. Many prisoners died here in 1773, and I generally saw some sick in this gaol j eight died

- so the city of Gisetfier there ii afisae of bread.

about

, Oxford Circuit. GLOCESTERSHI RS. 367

about Christmas 1778 of the small-pox; and in 1783, several died Of that difofder 6ucttm and the gaol-fever. Only one fewer. No bath.* Neither clauses against spirituous - C«. liquors, nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are hung up.

There is no reparation of the women, or of the bridewell prisoners. The licentious intercourse of the foxes is ihocking to decency and humanity. Many-children have been born in this gaol. There is a small chapel, but all the endeavours of the chaplain to promote reformation among the prisoners mutt necessarily be defeated, by the inattention of the magistrates, and their neglect of framing and enforcing good regulations. Perhaps this is the reason the chaplain seldom attends.

Of the felons &c. in September and December 1776, "thirteen were transports: most of them convicted at Lent assize 1775. About twenty were fines; who, not having the county allowance, nor -any employment, were in September very pitiable objects indeed.; half naked, and almost famithed. But in December their appearance was much altered. Mr. Raiies\ and other gentlemen took pity on them, and generoully contributed toward the feeding and clothing the m. Mr. Raikcs continues his unremitting attention to the prisoners. Eleven of the twenty-four in 1779, sixteen in 1782, and fourteen in 1787, were fines without any employment or allowance. The gaoler has £10 a year as bridewell keeper.

In this gaol were some prisoners, who had been arrested by exchequer writs; in which an officer is commanded “ to bring the body before the barons of the " exchequer—at Welbninster—to answer our sovereign lord the king concerning " divers treipaffes, contempts, and offences, &c.” The prisoners are called contempts.

In different parts of the kingdom, there are many prisoners detained by such writs.

At my visit in Dec. 1782,1 found some improvements made in the cattle: theiloors laid with Hone; boxes or bedileads for the felons and fines; and the whole prison white-washed.—When prisons are repaired, particular care should be taken for the ndmission of air. The windows should not be close glazed.—I observed numbers of the townsmen drinking in the tap-room here, as in too many other gaols.

I was happy to hear in October 1787, that this county has determined to build a new gaol, and to reform the bridewells; which is principally owing to the spirited exertions of the chairman of the grand jury Sir George Onefipborus Paul.

A lath, like that in the county hospital, with an easy descent, would induce felons even with their irons to go in This would freshen and revive them, and might be the means of preventing the gaol-fever.

f This gentleman is alCo the founder of a benevolent and useful inilitimon for the children of the poor in this city. Having observed great numbers of them in this manufacturing place to spend their Sundays in an idle and diflolut? manner* he established several little schools for their instruction on the evenings of that day; which* by his attention and liberal encouragement* have had a happy effect in improving the morak^f the younger classes; many of whom now look up to their kind benefactor with great esteem and affection. Perhaps Mr. Haiiet’s frequent visits to the castle suggested to him this plan* as the belt means of preventing youth from coming the re.

3 A

A Table

GLOCESTERSHI RE.

Oxford Circuit,

J«4

Gucinn

C»im.

BllSC-

TlLil.

A Tabli of Deitoh Fttt allowed by the—Jafiieei—for tke County of Glmtjhr at die Booth-ball; ]aly 1719. Approved—by be Judge of Afiixe—19th tame month according

uititaled Sec.

To wit

[mfrimu. lor entering the action whereon each prisoner is lift broaght into castody. either 00 pnetfs, tafias, ktitst, ottemtitm or writ of exttm mi espunduM For entering and dHcharging every second and other acton upon pnetft* r^nu, Utitmt

For receiving and entering every declaration agate ft prisoners in castody For the certificate of the want of a declaration io order to foe oat a writ o&faptrfoitm*

For a copy of each warrant against each prisoner ...

For receiving and entering every warrant against each defendant in castody For the under keeper or turnkey apon each aftxon or writ

LODGINGS.

Every prisoner who lies in the keeper's lodgings in- the Iberiff’s ward, being the castle; pays by the week -----

Every priloau who lies in die ftcriTs ward in his own lodgings pays by the week

The Names of the Justice* who ftgoed and allowed the above Fees at the left Sefiou.

ira- HUia y T*mpu Ed pud y ft* c-h

to—aa Afi

£ S. 0.

0 18 0

0 J 4

0 2 0

0 6 a

0 3 4

0 2 6

0 2 6

0 S 6

0 I 6

JT Jkfefcrr Thtx Hsywcrd

C H>m Eg Wimumt

Kstb* Lye ft# Sjke.

Fr mm* AWay* CMtftr

The Karnes of the Jaftices and Judge of Afixe who allowed and confirmed the above Fees at tke

ta# Afaa

Tim Cmie J Suphtns Ed FitU Tbt‘ Hfwari.

I have minti and examined the above Table of Fees and do confirm the fame

Rob. Price.

other

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

LAWFORD's GATE, Bristol, built 1716, has two rooms below and two above; 18 feet by 16: in those above arc beds for those who pay. There is a dark room, the dungeon (n feet 10 inches by 7 feet a), in which felons Deep. No

chimneys. Court 22 feet by 18 j with a pump. It is not secure; and prisoners are always confined in their rooms. It may be enlarged from the keeper’s garden; and should be made secure, that prisoners may use it, and have acceis to the pump. The keeper readily agreed with me in that opinion. Salary,.£10: fees, 63. Sd. notable. Straw, ten shillings a quarter: allowance, if a prisoner be very poor, id. a day: no employment. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. By a register kept in the prison, it appears*that in eight years and a half ' to September 1776, there were committed to it 57a prisoners.

»774>

GxFORriCiacuiT. OXOCE6TE <R51H -R £.

. 1774, Aug-ag, Prisoners. a; ioo!i t7?y> .’Feb-#, PHfoiai’ti4. d 51 -

' yyj/ Dec. 8}’ '* t ,.-)i ;3.i ;*; i; :rl-is!i nShp. >}3 aji: in*

1776, ----- 16; - 6. «7'4’a> Mar. 2, :i-- — IS.'

, . .! 1 1 ' 1 1.:

BERKELEY. Quite out of repair. Only one room for men aid Imm^tB'stet inches by 15 feet 4, and.7 feet 9 inches high.: the window (near ^feetiquare) not glazed; no straw: no chimney: court not secure. Nothing has bcenlaid out on this prison these twenty years. The sensible old keeper lamented the bad efieds of close confinement in idleness, upon the health of even! young streflg prisoners. Many such, he said, he had known quite incapable of working for some weeks after their discharge. He told me, that some years ago his prisoners used to grind malt for a penny a buihel; and the justices would not licence any victualler whole malt was not ground here: but that of late years they have done no work at all. No allowance. Keeper, Francis Norman: his salary, £20; but he, pays out of it j£6 to the poor o^the parish for ground-rent: fees, 4;. 4/i. no table. He wrote me lifts of his prisoners, which I here transcribe.

Account of Prisoners in the Bridewell at Berkeley,

Seat to the House of Commons:*

In 1771, committed to labour and corrosion, Prisoners 21.

Nothing expended, Nothing earned.

1772, Ditto, Nothing expended. Nothing earned. 20.

1773, Nothing expended. Nothing earned. 19.

1774, Nothing expended. Nothing earned. 15. '

1775, to Midsummer felSons, ditto ditto. 4.

Francis Norman

A farther Account of Prisoners committed to labour and corrosion.

Men* Women.

In 1778 committed 6. 4.

Nothing expended. Nothing earned.

1779, Ditto, Nothing expended, Nothing earned. 7. 2.

1780, Nothing expended. Nothing earned. 2. t.

1781, Nothing expended. Nothing earned. 12. 8.

1782, to Michaelmas sessions, ditto ditto. 4. O.

1774, Aug. 22, Prisoners 3, two men, one woman. 1779, June- 9, Prisoners o.

1775, Dec. 6, - - o. L 1782, Oa.25, - - 1.

f

Many such accounts would have been received at the Hoofe of Commons (in confeqoence of their order to fend the account of money expended and earned), if, keepers had been eqoally honest with F. Nenum.,

Baltics

viltii

CIRENCESTER.

GLOCESTfiRSHIRE.

Oxford Cnicmi.

Baiaa-

vim.

CIRENCESTER. The ground-floor is the keeper’s shop for garden feeds; and his kitchen, flee. On the first story is a room about 16 feet by n for men: one corner of it is parted off for a bed-room, called the eui, 8 feet by 5 feet 3 inches. On die second story is a larger room for women. The whole out of repair: and the court not secure enough to let the prisoners have the use of it. Felons are now occasionally allowed three pence a day; nothing to any others. No bedding or straw. No employment. Keeper’s salary, £13: he pays rent, £11 to the justice in the town. Fees, 6s. 8d. no table. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Sep. 4, Prisoners 3.

*779. Ju“e 9. - - 6.

1782, Oft. 25, - 3. Deserter 1.

t

WINCHCOMB. In this bridewell prisoners were formerly kept all together in die cellar. Now they are in the garrets: men in one, women in another; each about 14 feet square: roof and floors meet: 8 feet high to the ridge in the middle. A clole-glazed window in each: no chimney. Prisoners always confined to their rooms: court not secure. The county have never expended any thing upon the house for many years; and the whole is quite out of repair. It was the freehold of the keeper, who was upwards of fourfeore: his salary per receipts £12 1 10: o, received only £12. Fees, ijs. 4d. no table. Licence for beer. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Allowance, if charged with felony, three-pennyworth of bread a day. No straw. The keeper said, that “ he should be obliged to put irons on all the prisoners to secure them.”

1776, Dec. 14, Prisoners, 1 Felon, and 2 Women.

*779, May 19, No Prisoners.

1782, Dec. 24, One Petty Offender.

IN' THIS COUNTY IS ALSO

St. BRIEVELL’s GAOL, for debtors.

The castle is in the forest of Dean, the property of Lord Berkeley, who is the chief ranger. One room for men, greatly out of repair: no court: no water: no allowance: no firing. One of the two sickly objects I found there, told me he had been confined a twelvemonth, and never once out of the dismal and offeniive room; the other almost as long.—A room above for women: none there.—Keeper no salary: licence for beer: fees, 21. 6i. notable.

177$, Dec. 4, Prisoners 2.

1779, June 2, - - o.

1782, Dec. 23, - o.

GLOCESTER

Oxtou Cjkcoit.

GLOCESTERSHIRE.

3<7

GLOCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, William Jeynes, afterwards his Widow.

Salary, none: (he pud £4: 14: o a year to the sheriffs.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 9: 8.

Felons, 0:12: to.

Transports, £6 each.

Licence, Beer.

prisoners;

Allowance, Debtors, three shillings a week. (See Remarks.)

Felons, three-pennyworth of bread a day each. Garnish, £0:3:4.

.Number, Debtor,. Felon,&c, Debtors. Ftfcwbc.

I.

1773> Nov. 24, 3» 4- 1779» Junc

x7-7 S» Dec. f> 7. 7- 1782, Apr. 27,

1776» Sep. 6, 2, a. 1783, Sep. 30,

Dec. »S> 2, 6.

Glocss-

tss.

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, none; but on applying to the mayor.

THIS gaol, the North-gate, is too small. Debtors, felons, and petty offenders, Rsmikcs. who cannot pay for beds, all together in the Maim but women separated at night.

No court; debtors have the privilege of walking upon the leads. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung. up.

The city pays debtors in common, three shillings a week: they have not received, for nineteen years past, the sixteen shillings formerly paid by the corporation. On the 13th of December, prisoners have ten shillings worth of bread from an estate in Hemfted near this city. It is sent in two-penny loaves. No memorial of it in the gaol. There are some rules, dated 1694, in which the sums for garnish are specified; but as they are not signed, I did not copy them. The gaoler also kept' the city bridewell at the East-gate: but that being taken down, offenders are committed to this gaol. (

The above was the Ifate of this prison in 1779} but at my vilit in April 1782, it was taken down, an act of parliament having passed in 1781, for building a new gaol,.“ in feme convenient and healthy fit nation: as it will tend greatly to the safety and health of persons confined therein.”

In September 1783 the new gaol was nearly finished, but not occupied. This is built on too small a scale, the walls and rooms are low, there cannot be a proper separation of the sexes, or of debtors and felons; and the sewers will be offensive.

Ghvcester

aiiOGESTEJlSHlKE.

OxvoMtiGncviT.

rlmrqfcrCay.

A Tuu of Cunn Inrtiiftii belonging' to 'Kirtt-giae Cw) Ac.

c h A n-».4. t,*.-

TkMnoa6tadmlmftish|t/v«Kk.

The dace bed-room for each man too feillings aid {bar peace fer-wtek.

The rfciehr celled JWiegl three Stillings per week.

The little chamber celled Cw/-Wt two settling* and four pence per week.

The little HOB cm the M floor too settling* nod four pence per week.

FEES.

Sheriff’! warrant* of writ* oat of King’s Beach and Common Pleas, gaoler 8s. \d.

turnkey is. fd - - O 9 8

Ail execution-warrants the feme - - - - O 9 8

City doable action - - - O ‘ 8 4

City Angle nfiaaa - - - O 4 8

F11 ration* oot of conn of coalrirace - - - - O a 6

JGttanm’s - - . - - O *2 10

Giocerraa

C.tt

Gaol.

Crest Gimmefi JU Gemtrmjem Qwmrlimlem Sefimem life. 5 Mn—4* Cewgu //—1730

Whereat by an Act made in the second year of the reign of hi* present Majesty—for the relief See.—no Feet cr Chamber rent to be taken—till settled by three or more J office*—at the Quarter ScSoas— and— flgacd by the Judge of Afire with three or more Jnflices—And whereas upon the examination of the gaoler of the Prifoa of the North-gate of this City—it appearing to ns that the above— ate the ancient and accnftomed Fees—we having reviewed and moderated the said Table of Fees in fame Articles do hereby allow and confirm the lame as they ate now settled.

Signed by as

Jibti Small, Mayor C*tli Payne

Tbt Carill.

HAMPSHIRE.

WltniK Circuit.

HAMPSHIRE.

&9

HAMPSHIRE, or the county of SOUTHAMPTON.

COUNTY GAOL at WINCHESTER.

GAOLER, John White. Winchm-

Salary, none. T“'

Fees, Debtors, £ i: o: o.

Felons, 157:4.

Transports, - 5: $: O each, and hire of waggon or other carriage.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a three-penny loaf each, every other day (weight in Sep. 1774, lib.

1 jflz. in Feb. 178a, 1 lb. 14oz.) and the college allowance.

(See Remarks.)

Garnish, ,£0:2:6.

Number, Debtor*. Felons Ac. Debtors. Felons fee.

»773> Dec. l6> 21, 18. 1779, Mar. t. 12, 26.

1774, Sep. 24, *3. 21. 1782, Feb. 25, 30, 35-

*775, Dec- a8» »f> 29. Nov. a. 33> 28.

1776, Feb. 27, . /

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. ffeftcomb.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday.

Salary, augmented from £jo to £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Lip/cemb.

Salary, augmented from £30 to £50 for felons, common-fide debtors, and bridewell prisoners.

THIS gaol is kept very clean; and the alterations, in it are improvements. The Remases. present dungeon, 48 feet by 23, is\down but j steps: it is lofty (12 feet), boarded, and has 3 large windows. The former destructive dungeon was darker, and down 11 steps:

Mr. Upfcomb informed me that more than 20 prisoners had died in it of the goal-fever in one year 5 and that his predecessor died of the fame distemper. There are, two rooms over the dungeon, for common-fide debtors; three rooms with beds /or felons who pay, and two rooms for women. The felons day-room is commodiously enlarged. Their straw martrefies and coverlets are brought out and aired when the weather is fine. The beds are all on crib bedsteads. They had every day a clean' towel hung on a roller: the prisoner who took care of it and delivered it next day

j B was

37°

HAMPSHIRE.

Western Circuit.

WlKCHE^

TER

CoOKTT

Gaol.

was paid a penny. If a little court, which is now Ihut up from the gaol, and totally ufelds, were cleared, and opened towards the prtfon, it would be very conducive to health and convenience. The chapel is very low and inconvenient.

St. Cross’s ba/pitai bread (the dak)i is about a penny loaf given to each of the prisoners fix times a year; viz. on the eve of the following days, 10th August, 31ft October, Christmas, Easter, 3d of May, and Whitsunday.

The College allowance to felons is, once a week, an ox’s head, four fhcep’s heads and henges, about seventeen pints of oatmeal, three pints of salt, twelve loaves the size of twopenny halfpenny ones, about twenty-four gallons of table beer, and generally three times a week the broken victuals.

The gaoler has two guineas a year for keeping a bread account, to check the baker. The justices also take care of this matter; and, in consequence, the quarterly bilk, now the prisoners have three halfpence a day, amount to no more than they did in the last gaoler’s and baker’s time, when the allowance was but a penny a day, and there was about the fame number of prisoners.

The act for preierving the health of prisoners was punted on a board, and hung in the court, by order of the justices , but, there is no bath.

Soatkton.y}^/ GemcrmScm Qmmrtgrimlcm «/»yWlfltOn

A Table of Fee s—settled—parfaant to u Ad—the fecood year of his present Majesty— entitled %a A& for the Relief of Debtors foe.

At the entrance of every felon for cleaning the gaol and finding candles and all other common necessarie* .....

At the discharge of every felon to the gaoler ...

To him for the feoond and every other indi&meat ...

At the discharge of every felon to the turnkey ...

For the fecood and every other indidmeot to him -To the gaoler for every felon for his bed on the mailer’s fide weekly If two lye in the feme bed he may take of each for lodging in such bed At the entrance of every debtor for deanfing the gaol and finding candle and other necessaries Of every debtor for each week’s lodging in the gaoler’s bed on the mailer’s fide For each debtor difekarged to the gaoler ....

Of him for the fecood and every other aAhm To the torakey at the discharge of every debtor ...

To him of such debtor for the fecood and every other action ..

At the discharge of every person committed for felony and whose bills shall be brought in rgmrmams and at the discharge of every person committed for not finding bail or for other mifdemcanon onder the degree of felony no more than.

For copy of every wartant for a debtor - - ..

For the copy of every commitment of a felon -

And it is ordered—“that the gaolrr—shall not' receive firefttjr or indireAly—any other or greater foes fie—Aad for the better information of prisoners —that the aoder-written clanfo in the said Act of Parliament be fabscribed at the bottom of the Tabic of Fees to be bong or—in each and every room foe.

" And

£ s. D.

1 5 4

O 12 8

O 2 0

O 1 0

O 3 0

O 2 0

O 4 0

O 2 6

I 0 0

O. 10 0

O 2 0

O 1 0

O «3 4

O 1 0

0 t 0

Wnnut Circuit.

HAMPSHIRE.

37?

" And be it farther enacted—that every sheriff, under Ikerif, 'gaoler See.—111 oil permit—him Other— “ arrested to fend for—any beer ale and vt&oals or other necessary food from what'place they " please and aUb to have—fach bedding linnen &c.—as he she or they shall think fit &c.”*

Copy

Ed Stawett Jebn Ryle Ed Better Bet Pyte

7bo‘. Durnfard The’, Bates R. C. Chalentr CM

Benj Wotdrcsft Sic New John Ahuiei.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

WINCHESTER. The four rooms are too close, and the court (which is not payed, 37 feet j inches, by 13 feet 10) is too final! for the prisoners, who are commonly numerous; especially at quarter sessions, when they are brought hither from the other bridewells. There is only one day-room (26 feet by 20 feet inches) for men and women. The lodging-room below for the former, is 17 feet 3 inches by 10 feet 3. In that above (21 feet by 17 feet j inches) are beds, for which each pays 2s. 64. a week, though three in a bed.—Adjoining is the women’s room iji feet by 11 feet 2 inches.—At my visit in 1779, there were four young women, and in 1782 five, among the prisoners, some of whom were felons: at my last visit fix were kings evidence. I saw also a girl about 13 years of age, committed for two years, and had been long confined to her bed.—This prison has been fatal to vast numbers. The misery of the prisoners formerly excited the compassion of the duke of Chandos; and for several years he sent them every week about thirty pounds of beef and two gallon loaves.— A pump lately funk. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £40: fees, is. id. no table. Licence for beer and wine. Allowance, a three-penny loaf in two days: no employment.

1774, Sep. 24, Prisoners 13. 1779, Mar. 1, Prisoners 11.

1775, Dec. 28, - - 21. 1782, Feb. 25, - - 23.

GOSPORT. One day-rooms a lodging-room below for men, and two above for women. The court airy. An oven to purify the clothes, but no fuel allowed by the county. No straw. Keeper a sheriff’s officer: salary, £40: fees, 6j. id. notable. Licence for beer and wine. Allowance, two-pennyworth of

Mr. H'bitt, and fevered enter gaolers, have expressed to me their sincere with, that tome frttifi enbn wen given for their sam condnfi, and for that of the dtbtsri. as well as the felons; since for want of such orders, (he debtors in their irregularities often set at defiance the keepers, who are embarrassed for want of knowing how they are to proceed in treating stem.

3 B 2

Wnwti.

- via.

Bnme-

WELLS.

bread

HAMPSHIRE.

WlSTIRN ClRCOIT.

37=

WELLS.

brad a day (anight Ntv. 6, 1782, txaSij ili.J: no employment. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors hung up.

1774, Sep. 27, Prisoners 2. 177 9, Mar. 6, Prisoners 9.

1776, Feb. 26, - 5. 1782, Nov. 6, - - 3. Deserters 2.

ODIAM. Only one day-Toom (12 feet 3 inches by 11 feet 3). A lodging-room for men; and one for women (11 feet 8 inches by 7 feet, and 6 feet 10 inches high). Another room, which is the largest, the keeper uses for a brew-house, dairy, &c. There are two lodging-rooms for those that pay 2r. 6J. a week. Some additions have lately been made to the keeper’s house, but none for the benefit of prisoners. Keeper was a sheriff’s officer: lidary, £15: tees, 6f. 8 d. no tabic. No licence. Allowance about a pound of bread a day: no straw: no employment. Clauses of act against spirituous liquors not hung up. An offensive dunghill in the court, and the prison not clean.

1776, Feb. 28, Prisoners 8.

1779. Mar. 10, - 5.

1782, Nov. 1, - 4.

NEWPORT in the JfU of Wight BRIDEWELL, and NEWPORT GAOL.

The bridewell for twenty-eight parishes; and the town gaol, are now both in the old work-house; lour rooms being appropriated to that purpose. No chimney: no straw: no court: no water accessible to prisoners. There are two keepers; one for the county bridewell, whose salary is £19: 15: o; the other for the gaol, whose salary is £3. Neither the act for prefer ving the health of prisoners, nor clauses against spirituous liquors, hung up.

1774, Sep. 27, Prisoners - o.

ins. Mar. 5, - - - o.

1782, Nov. 5, Petty Offenders 2.

The Poor are removed from the old work-house to an House of Industry built in the forest of Paribxrjt, near Newport, for the twenty-nine parishes, or whole island. Eighty acres of land, statute measure, eras a grant from the crown, to the guardians of the poor, March 21, 1772, for 999 years, at the yearly rent of ft: 17: 9.* At my last visit there were 65 men, 150 women, 155 boys and 146 girls. The house was neat and dean.; and thoft Udging-reomi were fresh which had apertures

tn

l6tk Gomgt in Cap. LUI.

Western Circuit. HAMPSHIRE. 37 j

in the cielings (18 inches by 12). The women’s sick ward (28 feet wide) was quite Ntwro*i. clean, and the beds were not crowded.*

The principal work of the house was making sacks, biscuit and nail bags, besides, there were tailors and shoe-makers employed. The provisions were good j the girls and boys were clean, a set of fine healthy children.

The ceconomy of giving them (especially the elderly people) no more of their earnings than one penny in the shilling, is not for the advantage of the house.—

Here is a fault (which is common in such buildings), that the dining-hall, workrooms, and bed-rooms, are all too low.—In the passages and ftaircales of such houses, all expedients should be used to promote the circulation of air.

At WINCHESTER is

A Prison for Debtors, the Cheney Court in and for the liberty of the Soke: the property of the Bishop. Two rooms, one 17 feet square, the other near 9, and 6i high. Out of repair. There is a garden into which prisoners who give security are admitted. The bounty of the duke of Chandos did supply this prison every week (when there were prisoners) with one gallon loaf, and about twenty pounds of beef. Fees, 17s. lod. n'o table. Licence for beer. Clauses against (piriroous liquors not hung up. Several people drinking, as in a disorderly alehouse.

1775, Dec. 28, Prisoners 6.

1779, Mar. r, - o.

1782, Feb. 2j, - - 1.

In this County are also at SOUTHAMPTO N,f

The Bar Gate: Sheriff’s ward for Debtors. Two rooms: in that for women,

, no chimney. In 1779, there were some alterations in these rooms, but the fewer

I observed an excellent contrivance in the windows of the women's tick-ward. By a small hafp in the upper falh and tlaples in the frames, when that fath is in part, or entirely down; a padlock prevents the nurses or patients putting it immediately up, as they generally do in the county hospitals, and at Plymtueb, and Hajlar, when the medical gentlemen leave the rooms. Dr. Lind told me that in Tummer time he nails down some of the Tallies in the passages, &c.

t 1 went over the Poor-house in this town, where there are some good rules and orders; I copy the lad (the twenty-fourth). “ That these orders be publicly read once a week, that no one may pretend to plead ignorance thereof. "—I shall take this opportunity, to make an observation respecting the conduct of these houses, which I think of importance. It is well known that the gnvm-up inhabitants of these places are generally the llothful and idle, and will do no more work than they ate absolutely compelled to perform, and are full of contrivances to excuse themselves from labour. Their precepts and example cannot fail of having a very mifehievons effect upon the children who alTociato with them.

On this account, besides a separation of the different sexes, I would recommend a total reparation of all children above seven years of age, from the adults. The want of this, I am perfnaded, is the Mlfon why so few good and industrious servants come out of poor-houses,

was

37*

HAMPSHIRE.

Westmn Circuit.

SonTiiw- was offensive. There is no count no water. Keeper, the oldest sergeant at T»«. mace: salary, now£10: fees, 13s.4/ notable. Prisonerspay 9</. a week. The corporation allows 4J. a day to poor debtors. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up.—The old keeper dead; the house mow perfectly clean.

1774, Sep. 24, Debtors 2. 1779, Mar. 3, Debtors 3.

1776, Feb. 06, - a. 178a, Feb. 24, - - a.

Gaol for Felons (the Tower J at the lower end of the town. Two dole rooms, 18 feet 9 inches by 8 j: very dirty. A court: no water. Gaoler’s {alary, now £ 10. Prisoners allowance, three-pennyworth of bread a day.

1774, Sep. 24, Felons o. 1779* Mar. 3, Felon 1.

1776, Feb. 26, - - o. 1782, Feb. 24, - - o.

Bridewell, joins to the gaol. Three rooms up stairs: no chimney: no coure: no water: no employment. Keeper, a junior sergeant at mace: salary, £1: fees, 3/. 4d. no table. Prisoners allowance, three-pennyworth of bread a day: ten Stillings a year for bedding.

1774, Sep. 24, Prisoners o. 1779, March 3, Prisoner 1.

1776, Feb. a6, 2. 1782, Feb. 24, - - 1.

PORTSMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

The ward or Utcben for debtors is towards the street, and up stairs there are five lodging-rooms with beds. In the court is a large room for felons, where I once found debtors lodged with them. This room and two over it for women are very black, having never been white-washed. Neither the act for preserving the health of prisoners, nor clauses against spirituous liquors, hung up. Gaoler is sergeant at mace: no salary: licence for beer and wine. Prisoners allowance, debtors' none; felons four pence a day. No bedding nor draw.

A table of fees is hung up in this gaol: it is signed by the town-clerk George Huish 30th June 1738. He writes at the title, “ Fees due to the sergeants at mace of the said borough, which I have known to be paid from the year 1693 and have been “ informed were antiently pud.”

For eTerv commitment 151. 10/. oat of which the town-clerk hath 3/. 6 J. Sec. Sec. Sc c.

Debtors. Fdoos ice. Debtors. Felons fce.

1774, Sep. 24, 2, 4. 1779, Mar. 6, 6, 1.

1776, Feb. 26, 2, 1. 1782, Nov. 5, 6, 4.

BASINGSTOKE Peisos, for Debtors, is one room in the keeper’s public-houie, which he rents at £6 a year. He is town-sergeant and has no salary.

1776, Feb. 28, 1782, Nov. 1, No prisoners.

WILTSHIRE.

Western Circuit.

WILTSHI-RE.

J7*.

COUNTY GAOL at SALISBURY.*

GAOLER, Thomas Biggs.

Salary, none. But £80 a year (raised from £50) to supply felons as below. (See Remarks.}

Fees, Debtors, £t: i: o.

Felons, 0:7:8.

Transports, £4:4:0 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a penny loaf a day each (weight in Sep. 1774, 8 OZ.): now id. a days i. e. 1 \d. bread (weight in Feb. 1782, ij oz.), and a pint of small beer. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors Master’s-fide, - £0:8:8.

Felons and Common-fide Debtors, 0:4:4.

Number, Debtors. Felons See. Debtors. Felons &c.

J773> Dec. ij. 14. 8. 1776, Sep. j. 7. 12.

»774, Sep. 23, is. 9- 1779, Mar. 1, *7s *S*

*77 S> Dec. 27, *Ir 15- 1782, Feb. 27, 20, l6.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Vanderplaak.

Duty, Friday prayers: once a fortnight, sermon. Salary, £401 of which £20 is a legacy. (See Remarks.)

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Crompton, now Mr. Curtoys.

£10: to: o for felons and common-fide debtors, now £21.

THE prison in this city called Fisherton-Anger Gaol (from the name of the parish in which it (lands) near a fine dream, is also one of the county bridewells. Only one court. No day-room for common-fide debtors, nor felons: each fort have their fire (no fuel is allowed by the county) on a brick hearth raised in the middle of their respective lodging-rooms, without a chimney. The common-fide debtors room over the felons. Women-felons have a separate room, about 15 feet square.

Mr. Bi^s has £6: 13: 4 salary for the bridewell; and £10 a year for fees of prisoners acquitted at quarter sessions, and 7s. id. for the fees of each felon. He pays land and window-tax.

When his Majesty p»<Ted through this city in 1778, he was pleated to leave £200 for the discharge of debtors confined for foas lets than £50; by which benefaction eleven prisoners were let at liberty.

In

Sams-

»oat.

Rzwaeks.

WILTSHIRE.

Westers Circuit.

3?6

Salissukt In 1776, there was a new building in the court; a (table, cart-house, and brew-Cocxtt house; with an infirmary over {hem, one room for men, another for women. I could G*ol' not help wilhing that the lower part instead of (table &c. had been two day-rooms with fire-places, one for debtors, another for felons. That part of the prison which was the bridewell is not secure; and petty offenders are confined in the gaol.

Just without the prison-gate was a round staple fixed in the wall: through it was put a chain, at each end of which a common-iide debtor padlocked by the leg, flood offering to those who pass by, nets, laces, purfcs. See. made in the prison. The two whom 1 saw there last were crown debtors not cleared by the insolvent aft. Norsst this is not permitted.

At Christmas, felons chained together are permitted to go about; one of them carrying a sack or basket for food; another, a box for money.

Twenty pounds a year of the chaplain’s salary is paid by Lord JVeymouth by a bequest of nomas Tbjnse, Esq. who bound for payment the manors of Weobly and Ross in the county of Hereford. The bequest was recognized by Lord IVeymouth in a deed of settlement dated 2d of November 1709.

Lord Pembroke pays a legacy of £$ a year out of the manor of Swallow Cliff in this county; part to the chaplain himself, viz. a guinea for a hat; the remainder to be by him distributed among the prisoners. Mr. Smith of Salisbury left the interest of £50 to be divided among them. No memorial of any legacy hung up in the gaol. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up.

—Die Jmlii, 3®- Gctrgii // Am* 3mm 1719

according to an Act—iatitsled an Act for the Relief Ac.

For entering and discharging every oAfes or process capias or latitat Entering and discharging of every second action .... Entering and discharging every capias uthgas ...

For the onder keeper or turnkey each action and writ ..

FELONS.

For every commitment and dticharge by a justice of peace or in court For every commitment for not finding bail for good behaviour For every commitment and discharge of bastardy -

For every igtssrasau upon felony ....

For every commitment and discharge on the statute of fr*mumre

To the onder keeper on each of the caofes ...

LODGINGS.

Every prisoner that lyes in the keeper’s lodging in the Prize or Sheriff’s ward pays by the week -----

hereby—allow the fame

H Ctitf

J MtnUgut

Tha'o Phipps

Jif, Cmptr

Edivd Asht

rent &c.~

£ S. D.

1 6 0

0 10 0

0 10 0

0 1 0

1 5 4

0 *3 4

0 >3 4

0 *3 4

1 5 4

0 1 0

0 2 6

Tarminster~do

Jm. Bjits

Edtod Tounge

OTUII

Westh'k Crecutr.

WILTSHIRE.

373

OTHER

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

DEVIZES. This is also the town gaol. It has two night-rooms for men, and two for women: but the day-room (194. feet by 18) and court-yard, common. A small workshop; I saw no body in it. An infirmary of two rooms. Tour rooms for master’s-fide debtors. Clean and White-washed stt thy late trifles.

Allowance to offenders, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day (weight in Sep. 1776,18 oz. in March 1782, 14 ex.), and a pint of small beer. Straw, 2 guineas a year.—In 1779, ‘he bread allowance was one pound and a half. A window is now made in the keeper’s kitchen which overlooks the court. The prisoners are without employment: the shutters of the work-room nailed up. No fees are demanded of the prisoners: the county pays the gaoler 7 s. id. for each.

There was a debtor in 1776 from the court of requests j he had a wife and four small children. In 1782, a weaver who had five children, was confined for a debt of 1 or. ad. Besides the costs, &c. he was charged 1 os. 6d. for hinging to prison, though only from Caine at 7 miles distance. There was also a woman for a debt of 2* 3d. costs and fees js. 2d. and for. 6d. for conveyance. Twelve weeks confinement clears such debtors.*

A few years ago the gaol-fever carried oft many: but as the infirmary and some of the other rooms mentioned above have been built lince that time, there is now little danger of that distemper j provided care be taken to separate prisoners in the apartments built for that purpose, some of which I found occupied by the keeper, and the men all crowded into one night-room. The keeper has a salary of £10, and keeps a public house. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

Debtors. Petty Offender!. Debtors. Petty Offend.

774. Aug. 4, 2, 17. 1779, Feb. 27, 1, 14. Lunatics 3.

1776, Sep. 4, ‘ 1, 13. 1782, Mar. 4, 5, 25. - - 1.

MARLBOROUGH. A common work-room 134. feet by i2i: a lodging-room for women 23 feet 2 inches by 9 feet 8: another for men , this is 13^ feet by 10; window 19 inches by iy, not to the open air, but to the work-room, which has but one window. All these rooms are on the ground-floor; and by a Fewer within doors, they are made very offensive, especially the men’s night-room; in which, when I was there first, I saw one dying on the floor of rhe gaol-fever.

> By an for Chipftnian, Calm, &C. J Ga. III. cap. ix. similar to that for Brojfrrd, MeUtJbam, &c.

the j of Ga. III. cap. zix.

’ 3 C

Brib*-

WELLI.

The

37»

WILTSHIRE.

Western Circuit.

Mail-

10E0B0H.

The keeper told me that just before one had died there, and another soon after his discharge. Up stairs are three rooms for those who pay 4 s. 6 d. a week. No court: no water acceffiUe to prisoners: no straw. Allowance to petty offenders, none; felons, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day and a pint of small beer. Keeper’s salary lately raised from £20 to £50, to supply the prisoners with bread. The county pays the fees, ys. 8 d. at the discharge of every prisoner. (The fees were formerly, as in a table dated 1671, felons, £1:6:41 petty offenders, 14s. &c.) Licence for beer. A surgeon; his salary £10: to: o. At my

visits in 1775 and 1776, fomc prisoners were at work; but none in 1779. One of them ftid, with evident concern, “ he had been there thirty weeks and had not earned one halfpenny.” In 1782, no employment. On asking the prisoners, if they desired to work; they readily answered in the affirmative. Two laid, their wives had brought them wool, but the keeper would not permit them to (pin it.—I heard the justices had viewed the aatfiie of this prison.

1774, Aug. 5, Prisoners 6. 1779, Feb. 27, Prisoners 4.

1775, Dec. j°» - 8. 1782, March4, - - tt. Deserter 1.

1776, Dec. 17, - - «7-

There is also at SALISBURY the

City Gaol: the property of die bishop: out of repair. Two rooms for felons, and three above them for debtors. No court: no water: no straw. The late gaoler paid £8 a year to a domestic of the bishop. His lordship fends to the prisoners at Chrifhnas thirty shillings worth of meat, and ten shillings worth of bread. Keeper, a sheriff's officer. licence for beer: fees, 14s. 8d. no table. Allowance, debtors, none: felons, two pence a day. At my Uft vilit, the lower rooms were let to the military for deserters &c. at is. a week.

1775, D*c- *7> Debtors 3, Felons &c. 2.

1776, Sep. 3, - - 2, - - - o. Deserters 2.

1779, Feb. 28, - - 1, - - - 1.

1782, Feb. 27, - - 1, - - - o. - - t.

DORSETSHIRE.

Western Circuit.

DORSETSHIRE.

3>9

COUNTY GAOL at DORCHESTER.

GAOLER, James Chejfo. Do»ck»-

S alary, none.

Fees, Debtors, - £i \ 3:9.

Felons at Aillze, - 1:3:8.

Quarter Sessions, o: 17: 4.

Transports, £2: 12: 6 each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none; but on applying tojustices.

Felons, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day (weight in Sep. 1774* 12iez.J.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 7. 7 (See Felons, 0:1:3.)

Number, Debtor, Felon, 4c. Debtnn. Felon,40,

1773, Dec. 14, at. 9- >779> Feb- 6> 14, 6.

1774, Sep. 21, *9> 9- 1782, Aug. 3, *7, 8.

1775, Dec. 26, >4, 7-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Debug.

Duty, Friday; altered to Sunday and Wednesday. Salary, raised from £30 to £50.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Kenn.

£30 for debtors and felons.

THIS gaol is quite out of repair. The court is in front, in which is the chapel. Remarks. There is only one day-room for felons of both sexes, near which is the condemned room; also on the ground-floor is the men’s lodging-room, and adjoining a small room for women (8 feet by 6) with a window into the paflfage. On the first floor there are ten rooms for debtors in a passage 5 feet wide. In September 1774, two debtors told me they had lived five or six weeks on nothing but the county-bread^ and water. In December 1775, the small-pox in the gaol: no infirmary: no bath.

A garden and a stream ac the back of the gaol. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for prelerving the health of prisoners, are not hung up.—Mr. John Derby left twenty shillings a year for bread to be distributed among the debtors on the four quarter days: no memorial of this hung up.

By the exertions of Mr. Pitt, and the gentlemen of this county, a new gaol is going to be built on the fame ground, and near the fine stream.

3 C a

Edward

DORSETSHIRE.

Wisti&n CimeoiT.

3*0

Dotcati. Edward Mtrtm Pfydell, Esq. fends each prisoner at Chrifbnas six-pence in money,

m and two pounds of beef. This kind donation has been continued many years by his

Cnm-rr fatjK,. and jumfclf. Lord Digit fends at Christmas two guineas to this gaol, and Gaol- . . ., , one to the county bridewell.

Mr. Chaffcj has been gaoler from the year 1728. I copied a paper of rales and

orders signed by him: the last article requires garnish of a new comer.

The following table in the gaol was hardly legible at my first visit.

J>trjes. A Table of Fits to be takes bjr—the Gaoler or Keeper of the Sheriff*i Ward at Dsrtbefltr —settled—at SkmjHm 15th Joly—34th of George II—1760 pirfaant to an Ad—intitaled as Act for Relief of Debtors Ac.

aC* * D-

o 13 4

0 3 0

O I O

o a

© t o

000

006

0 3 0

OIO

Ric Brrdrtfp R Riggs y Hanfmm

y# Jemmgs E Okedm J*kn Frete.

The above written Fees hare been periled by Us his Majesty’s Justices of Assize for the Wcficrn Circmit at the Afize* held at Dmtke/tr in and for the said Cooney of Jhrjtt the 24th day of July 1760 and we do approve the feme

E WILMOT W^OtL.

Ffinrd with the Original by Jdm WmBi* CSerlt of the Peace nftheCv—lyof Omfot.

Imprimis for the coanhntat fee of every prisoner for debt damage contempt or otherwise in aril fnits thongb it be on foveral zStions ...

For the flunbr rent of every prisoner so committed who shall have a bed to himself and although Acre ate store beds in the fame room and who finds himfolf bed bedding and Sheets weekly and every week ....

If there be two prisoner* and no more in one bed finding their own bed bedding and ihcete then each of them to pay weekly and every week for chamber rent Every prisoner who at his own desire has a bed to himfolf and although there are more beds than one in each room and the keeper judge bedding and

fieeting hall pay for such chamber rent and for the acts of each bed and weekly and every week -

prisoner.* in one bed and no more in one bed and the keeper finding bed bedding and fhects then every of them to pay weekly and every week for the nfo of such bed bedding and eh»mh#r rent .....

For the nfe of the common -room the prisoner finding his bed and bedding -

Bat if the keeper finds bedding then ....

For dm lilermtr and discharge of every prisoner oat of the fold prison for debt.or otherwsfo in civil fnits or addons -----

Fov the turnkey fees of every prisoner difehazged ...

COUNTY

Western Circuit.

DORSETSHIRE.

3*»

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHERBORNE.

Four rooms, two for each fez, but only one day-room and one court. Keeper has Buot-

a large garden: salary, £40: fees, 13/. 4d. no table. Allowance, a three-penny w,tL-

loaf in two days (weight in Sep. 1774, 1 lb. tjoz. now a half-quartern loaf, in Aug.

1782, 2lb. 30Z.). No employment. The keeper formerly told me he had Ipoken in behalf of his sick prisoners to the clerk of the peace, who said “ he thought the late act did not extend to bridewells,” but now a surgeon is appointed.—There were 26 committed to this prison in 1779,—3* in 1780,—-and 45 in 1781.

The justices have very judiciously provided for the relief of prisoners going to different quarter sessions. Their order, dated 12th April 1774, is as follows.

Sbtrbcnt, Derfet. The great inhumanity that frequently happens unto the several priloners—con- t

reyed to the different quarter sessions to be tryed—by the walking loaded with heavy irons—being taken into consideration—it is the refolntion and order of this court that for the future the gaol-keeper and bridewell-keeper shall provide for one prisoner only a horse, for two or more a convenient cart or carriage for the conveying the m: and to be allowed the sum of three pence per mile for one perfirn; for two or more the sum of six pence a mile etc.

1774, Sep. 22, Prisoners 9.

1779, Feb. 6, - - 2.

1782, Aug. 2, - - 13.

DORCHESTER TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms: the lower one called the blind-beufe , the other over it is for debtors,

(11 feet inches by io| feet, and 7 feet 2 inches high). No chimney: no fewer: no water. Allowance i^d. in bread. The debtor had been confined in this offensive room upwards of fourteen ^eeks; he had eight children, and had. noc earned a halfpenny.

1782, Aug. 3, Debtor 1. Felons &c. none.

POOLE Town and County Gaol. Two rooms, down three steps. No water.

Keeper, no salary: fees, 13s. e,d. no table. Allowance to debtors and felons,

3s. 3d. a week each.—At my last visit the floors were boarded, and the walls of the court raised.*

1776, Feb. 26, Debtor 1. Felons o.

178a, Nov. 3, - - o. - - o.

1 do not describe the Angle rooms or tagtt that are in many market towns, for the confinement of drunken or disorderly persons, for a night, before they are taken to a magistrate. One of the Iargeft (called foliflttry) is in Poclt, 18 ( feet by 7 (. In iome market, and even bertugb towns, indeed, there are no places of confinement whatever.

Poole

DEVONSHIRE.

WlSTlU Ciacurr.

3»*

Foot i.

Eutu.

Xtxau.

Pools Baidzwzll, is in die work-house yard. Three finall rooms now made into two. Keeper is the master of the work-honfc, which the late keeper farmed ,; but now, both that and die bridewell rooms are cleaner than at my former visit.

1776, Feb. 26, Priibners none but a lunatic.

1782, Nov. 3, One prisoner.

DEVONSHIRE.

HIGH GAOL at EXETER,

roa moss.

GAOLER, Beajamm Sherry, now "femes Water.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Felons, £0:14:4.

Transporo, - 1:1:0 each. (See Remarks.)

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Felons, twenty-two ounces of bread a day each. Garnish, lately abolished.

Number,

oer. rdoMBc. Mate.

*774, Feb. 18, 20. 1779, Jan. 31, 33-

Sep. is. *4* 1782, July 27, as-

177J, Dec. 16, 25- 1783, Feb. 2, S7-

CHAPLAIN, Rer. Mr. Aiikci.

Duty, Sunday a sermon, and twice a week prayers. Salary, £40.

SURGEON, . Mr. Rule, now Mr. Walker.

Salary, £42 for gaol and bridewell. (See Remarks.)

THIS gaol is the property of John Demy Rolls, Esq. whose family had a grant of it from the duchy of Cornwall: the late gaoler paid him rent £22 per annum. The house and court are too finall: there is only one day-room for men and women felons; this is used as the chapel. Over it is the women’s lodging-room. There are three rooms for fines, &c. one below and two above; that below is ibme-times used for the condemned. There are three night-dungeons (about 20 feet by 12) down three steps; the finall window of one of them is under a staircase. Theft dungeons are the more unhealthy as at one part they are 7 or 8 feet under

Western Circuit.

3*3

DEVONSHIRE.

ground. Mr. Rule the late surgeon told me that he was by contract excused from attending in the dungeons any prisoners that should hare the gaol-fever. There are mow two rooms for an infirmary, but the stairs that lead up^to die men’s rooms are intolerably bad: no bath.—The court is paved with pebbles t (flag (tones would be much better). In it is an ostensive fewer.—At the top of the gaoler’s house is an alarm-bell.—The prisoners formerly made cabbage-nets for two pence a dozen j and purses of different forts from four pence to seven pence a dozen: the turnkey found the twine and thread.* Two Tailors fined a shilling each had £1:1:4 each to pay the clerk of the peace, besides the gaoler’s fees.

It was commendable and exemplary in the justices of this county to fix the felons allowance by a certain weight of good bread, not variable with the price.

There is tit table of fees. But by the dose of the preamble at the Sheriffs’Ward, the table there seems to have included originally the fees of this gaol.also. The gaoler had for each transport two guineas from the merchant, to whom the county paid per contrail £$. The ail for preferring the health of prisoners is not hung up.

About Christmas, the gaoler permits his prisoners to solicit charity in the city. When I was there in December 177J, the box was broke open, as was supposed, by the person who conduced them, as he absconded. If any gentleman would undertake the disposal of the contributions, this would not only prevent such a fraud, but the money laid out for meat, firing, &c. would be - far more beneficial than their spending mofl of it in liquor.

At my visit in 1779, 1782 and 1783, I found the men together encouraging and confirming one another in wickedness, and the women are obliged to associate with them in the day-time, t

An elegant {hire-hall is now finished: may it not be hoped that the gentlemen will turn their thoughts to this crowded, offensive and destructive gaol, especially the proprietor, who (in 1782) liberally subscribed £1000 to encourage seamen to enter into his majesty’s fleet 5 and who pofiefles an- eltatc to uphold this prison I

This art is very soon learnt, and when the prisoners were thus employed, I found them cheerful and healthy; they said they earned from three halfpence to two pence a day each, with which they got a little milk, or beer to their bread; and the old keeper said *' it kept them ont of mischief. ”

f From good information, I might justly refer the magistrates to what I hare said under Gheeftr castle {page }6j), and the note at Stafford {page 350).

Enm

Hiea

Gaos.

SHERIFF’S

J«4

DEVONSHIRE.

Wbtim Cucuit.

ExiTit

Sheriff's

Ward.

IlUAilS.

SHERIFF'* WARD, EXETER;

to COUNTY PRISON rot pebtoks.

KEEPER,

Salary,

Fees,

Licence,

JdmJmtfm.

none.

£o: i+: 4. Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0:1:4. Number, . Mm.

1774, Feb. 20, 43.

----- Sep. 12, 24.

*775* Dec- *5» 34*

Debtors.

779. Jan- 3*. 3*-

1782, July 27, 23.

CHAPLAIN, none. On Sunday a prisoner reads prayers and dines with the keeper.

SURGEON, none.

THE Sheriff's ward or prison is in the parish of St. 'ThoMas the apostle, in the county of Devon. It has Icveral large and convenient rooms for master’s-fide debtors, and also fix rooms and a work-room on the common-fide. Court spacious. Good rules of ceconomy. A humane keeper. He has a good fire for common-fide debtors— he said he would gladly relinquish his fees for a salary of £100—and told me that during his time, about fifteen years, no more than five or six debtors had obtained their aliment, the greats. In 1779, one debtor, on attachment from the court of chancery, had continued here from May 1758, who would not take the benefit of the insolvent acts; but at my last visit he was dead. Here is still an older prisoner, Grace Hetrper, whole warrant of commitment is dated 30th of November 1741.

1760 Sheriff’s Ward,

Devcw, t» At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held at the CafUe of Exon the 15th Jan. 1760 before JUcbmrd Bemeis Esqr. Georg* Tanner, William Clifford Martin, William Kitt/en, Esq«. and others &c. The Court having considered the report of Sir Jtkbard Warwick Bamjylde Bart. Sir Gcsrgt Tenge Bart. Henry Cremes Esqr. and John Smew, Clerk, Jofticci of Arc.—appointed to enquire into Fees taken by the present Keeper and Gaoler of this Count/, and having considered the Table of Fees heretofore taken by the Keeper of the Sheriff’s Ward, and the Fees taken by the Keeper of the High Gaol and Keeper of the Bridewell of this County doth in porfuance of an Ad—entitled Ac. —settle and rflahlift the fol'owing Table of Rates and Fees of the Keepers of the said several Prison* tec.

A Table

WisnftrGwcBiY. DEVONSHIRE. j»5

A T*»t»;t*f thf RiTB» »d, PM3 allowedtebe takes bjr the JCeeperoi the 8heriff’* Ward , ..... .: .; . for the County of Druse.

For die eomtfii taunt fee of every prisoner for debt, damages, end. contempts though it1 beion fhveral actions or proceffei only - - j

To the turnkey - - - . -

For every libtratt - - -

For the use of a tied in a Angle room for one perfoa by the week

The afe of a room where there are two or there beds aid two lodge in a bed each periba by the week - - -

The nfe of the common room if the keeper finds bedding each person by the week .-If the prisoner finds bedding - -

Ekrrta

&; D. SWifkWrh TtfWib.

013 4 -

0 1 0

0 1 0

° 3. 0

o‘ 1 5

0 1 0

nothing

We do hereby approve and ratify the Table of Fees above written pnrfaant to the said Statute

RJ Warwick Bamfjlie E Wilmot

Kich‘ Nutcimh Bluett ’WJ“. Noel.

Henry Crewes,

Roles and Oanaas to be observed in the Sheriff’s Ward or Prison for the County of Deven.

Cka‘ Haynt, Sheriff.

No prisoner to abnfe the turnkeys—-if they do—to be confined;

If turnkeys use them ill—to complain to under-sheriff or keeper.

Doors of lodging-rooms—to be unlocked—in winter—at fun-riling—in fnnimer at fix.

Prisoners to be called over within the fore-door—at candle-lighting—and locked up in their several rooms at nine at night.

Fore-gate to be locked at nine at night in summer, at eight in winter.

No prisoner—to go outside of the rails towards the fore-gate;

No comber or weaver to work in lodging-rooms.

No prisoner’s family, or wife, to lodge in the prison without consent of the keeper.

No prisoner to be without the fore-door of the prtfon-house on Sundays in time of divine service- . . No person to bring any spirituons liquors into the prison.

After the door is shut at night no largs jngs of bWSf to be hfonght, bnt pints or quarts may be put in at the window.-

No prisoner to throw any rubhifh in the pump-yard.

No prisoner to keep any dog.

No wood to be cut or cleaved in the chambers—it fpoits the plaftefing.

Keeper to place any prisoner where he thinks proper for safety.

No prisoner to remove his bed without keeper’s consent.

, COUNTY BRIDEWELL at EXETER, in st. Thomas’s.

At my first visits this prison was out of repair: the windows small and glazed; Bride-yet no cafethents. An infirmary.—'Keeper’s salary, £6o '. no fees. He was a woollen WBLL-manufaSurer, and did employ ibme of his prisoners. Others of them might have been employed in the large garden and court at rope making, packthread spinning. Set.

3D His

j86

DEVONSHIRE.

Wt»TUtir Cmcorr.

Exstxr

COVVTT

Bribi*

«tu.

Riums

His number of prisoners for three years was-in 1772, 92 j—4n 1773, 163in 1774> 144: and from Easterfessions 1779 to Easter 1780, 171 i—*780 to 1781, 184;—and from 1781 to 1782, 227. When I was there in 177$, eight or ten of the prisoners were women; and yet the house was dirty. Allowance, two-peftnywOrth of bread a day (might a Sep. 1774, 19} naues; in July 1782, 18 ounces.). The county appointed a chaplain, with a friary of £30, and a house joining to the prison which he let for £fi a year, but lately this house was taken into the prison, and the friary is £36: duty do fixed time.

Soon after my visit in 1775 the surgeon and some of the prisoners died of the gaol-fever: afterwards the prison was repaired and improved. On the mens fide there is a hall or chapel and two large lodging-rooms: on the wmen’s fide two rooms and a lodging-room; and the courts are Jefarate. The prison now white-washed twice-a year. The rooms and court for the sick are fomrtimes used for vagrants. No bath: no employment.

1774, Sep. 12, Prisoners 22. 1779, Feb. 5, Prisoners 27.

177 j, Dec. 04, - - 34- 1782, July 2», - - 43.

EXETER CITY awd COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Sarah String, now Jehu Herbert.

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 16: 4.

Felons, o: 14: 4.

Transports, the expence.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,.

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day each.

Garnish, Debtors, £0:3: 6.

Number, IMcen. FdooiJUi Dcton. Felon, ac.

1774, Feb. 20, 11, 1. 1782> July 28, 3, 1.

1775, Dec. 15, 7, 2. 1783. Feb. 2, 4, 3- Deserter 1.

»779> J“- 3«> 2-

CHAPLALN, none.

i-

SURGEON, none. But ordered for felons by the chamber upon occasion.

THIS gaol, called the South-gate Prijea, has in the keeper's house, two rooms (the long-ream, and fine) and seven lodging-rooms, for debtees.—The three wards on the other fide of the gateway, for felons, are . very dole, dirty and offensive: no chimney: no court-: no water. In 1779, I found a woman sick, who had been

confined

Western Circuit.' D E V O N i5 H I R E.

confined three years on the felons fide. The act for preferring the 'health of prisoners, and dauies against spirituous liquors, not hung up.

Here are sent 51 ferny loaves' (weight, July 1784, 8 oz.) every week to the debtors; if only one, he has the whole; if more, they are equally divided amongst them: from what legacies they come is not known in the gaol, as no other account is hong up than two painted boards, which contain memorials of sundry bequests. They are not dated; one of them Teems ancient. I will transcribe the legacies from these after the table of fees.—The tailor’s company fend them 1 j. 4d. on Easter eve; and at the same time they receive from the chamber 36 penny loaves.

City and Goumtj of the City tf Exttt (to wit)

Fees of the Gaoler or Keeper—of the Gsol—called the Compter—at the Scvth-Gate—settled—at the General Quarter Sessions—held at the Guild-Hall— loth April—nth George II—173S—in pursuance of an Act for the Relief of Jnlblvent Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

For the commitment fee for every prisoner for debt, damages, contempt or otherwise

though it beson several actions or processes ..

To the turnkey .....

For every liberal/ - . . . . - >020

For the.ufp of a bed in a Angle room far one person per week - -030

For the use of a room wherein are two or more beds, and two lodge in each bed, then

for each bed . . . . . .026

For the nfe of the common room the prisoner finding the bed . - - o o 6

But the keeper finding the bed then per week - . -010

Arthur Cuime, Mayor Ninth1 Deuuhup 7he* CoppUftetu.

The above Table of Fees hath been reviewed and confirmed by ns his Majesty’s Jnflices of Assize for the Western Sommer Circuit held in and for the City of fine and County of the fame City. 24th July 173*.

J Fortiscub W» Thompson.

legacies.

A MEMORIAL!, of certayne Goyftes to the yeerlie value of Twenty Poundes geevenby Leutremee Seldom and Elixabtth his Wife, to be distributed by the Maior and Bayliffes of the Cinie-of Exornfhr ever as followith:

In bread weeklie to the pooie

\

Prisoners in the kinges gaole neer the easteH of £m> Prisoners in the (herives warde, gaole, and 'counter' of the cittie of Exit

S

d

6

6

Shills

yearly

a6*

6 10. o

The other articles in this piece of antiquity, fitch as 22. 6d. a year to the mayor of the city, &c. I most omit as foreign to my purpose.

1*7

Erma

Cjtt.

For many years past the prisoners in the high gas! have not received this legacy.

3 D 2

The

DEVONSHIRE.

Wurman Ciacvit,

3«

Eiim

C.TT-

The memorial on the other board is as follows r

£m.

Sooihgoto. Mn. Htftr Rt*4 pre fin-peace a week fa cm. fa this priicm, to be paid oat of a teae-

wat called fee. in the parish of Ca&aeaa. and laid oat in middling wheat bread, and distribpted

always to the prisoners in the Shew.

There is. no memorial in the priibns at Exeter of the following donations, men* rioned in Richard Ixatke’s Alphabetical Regi/hr, &c. primed in 1736. Such valuable Rcgfert of persons lait wills, grants, &c. in other cities, would prevent the mif-applicarion of many charities.

Reynold Hayne in 1354, bequeathed all his lands and tenements lying in the suburbs of the said city to the cathedral church of St. Peter there, for the relief of those that are imprisoned in the common gaol in the said city.

JPUliam Paramerc by will and Feb. 1570, bequeathed to the needy prisoners in the lung’s gaol in Exeter, in the Sntb-gate gaol there, and in the Counter, to every of them ten shillings for ever, yearly, to be paid by his heirs out of his lands in the Coakrvw in Exeter.

Tbemas Bridgman by will 3d of April 1641, gave to the said city the sum of £60 to be continued as a perpetual flock, whereof the interest of £40 to be bellowed upon the prisoners in die upper prison; and the interest of the other £20 to be bestowed upon the prisoners in the lower prison, and this likewise to continue for ever.

Edward Teaag, D. D. 6th June, 1663, by will gave twenty foillings a year to the prisoners of the castle, to be distributed by the Dean of Exeter for the time being, on the 29th of May.

TIVERTON Town Gaol. Two rooms under the town-hall, with a window in each towards the street. Keeper no salary. Fees, 3 s. 4 d. licence for beer.

178a, Aug. 1, No prisoners.

TIVERTON Tow* Bhidewxll. This waa formerly a chapel, and is now an old thatched buildings in which is a work-room, and three finall rooms below, and three above. In the court there is an old work-(hop and three malt mills, which have not been nfed for fotne time. Keeper’s faiary, £8:8:0. Fees, 3;. 4 d. he lives distant and puts in a deputy. The prison is dirty. Allowance, three halfpence in bread and half their, earnings. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

17S2, Aug. 1, Prisoners $.

The Shorn or (perhaps die) Shot i, the csaata ward far poor debtors, who used to beg by letting

ieWB A fthOC.

PLYMOUTH

WE&TBB.X Circuit.

DEVONSHIRE.

PLYMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

Three rooms for felons &c. and two rooms over them for debtors. One. of the former, the clink, i j feet by 8 feet 3 inches, and about feet high, with a’wicket MOUTH‘ in the door 7 inches by 5 to admit light and air. To this, as I was informed, three men who were confined near two months under sentence of Transportation, came by turns for breath. The door had not been opened for five weeks when I with difficulty entered to see a pale inhabitant. He had been there ten weeks under sentence of Transportation, and said he had much rather have been hanged than confined in that noisome cell. In another room (13 feet by jf and 6 feet 9 inches high, the window only 18 inches by 14, and the wall 2 feet 8 inches thick), at my last visit there were two prisoners; one of whom allured me he had been there upwards of seven weeks, and sometimes, with four or five other prisoners, where they were almost suffocated.—The other room is for women (17 feet by 10). The whole is dirty, and has not been white-washed for many years. No coure: no water. The gaolers live distant; they are the three sergeants at mace. Fees, 13 s. +d. no table.

Allowance to debtors, none but on application: felons, two-pennyworth of bread a day. No straw.

Debtors, Fdoni&c, Debtors. Fdomfcc.

1774, Sep. ij, 3, 1. 1779, Feb. 3, 1, o.

1775, Dec. 17, o, o. 1782, July 30, 4, 4.

In the Royal Hospital at this place, the patients lie in a kind of cradles, which Royal might be advantageously adopted in prisons, particularly in the lick rooms. These Hospital. I have already described in page 39. As the construction of the hospital itself is in several respeds singular, and apparently well contrived, I give a view of it (omitting two buildings, which I think improperly placed) -, and subjoin a particular description of the whole, with which, together with the annexed plan, I was favoured by my friend Dr. Farr, the worthy and ingenious physician of the hospital.

fit Royal Hospital fir tit mtftitm tf Jidk and hart fitmtn and marinti is fitoated at Stmuicnft, nearly equidistant from the two towns of Plymouth and Plymouth Dock; a small arm of die sea which pafles by Storteboyfe, under the Hospital wall, admitting of boats to land, at the outer gate, by the time of half-flood tide.

It consists of eleven large buildings, and four lesser, the whole forming a square, hut detached from each other, for the purpose of admitting a freer circulation of air, at also of clafing the several dif-orders, in such manner, as may bell prevent the spread of contagion.

The buildings are of rough marble, raised in the neighbourhood, with Purbeck rusticated coyns, and in front is a haodfome colonnade, supported by moor llooe pillars, with a flat roof covered with lead, which serves as an airing ground for convalescents in bad weather.

The buildings are numbered, mix. ten buildings (exclusive of the center, or chapel building) each containing fix wards, in all sixty; each ward will conveniently hold twenty cradles, and in the recovery wards, if required, twenty-five; so that with four underground wards, in the yth, 8th, and

9th

D E VO NS HIRE.

I r '

39®

Pltmotjtm 9th boil4iags, exckfive of the small-pox vatd, fifteen hundred patients may on an emergency be Rotas. accommodated.—Each ward in the ground, and first floor is 60 feet by 23 feet 8 inches and 12 feet

HosriTAi. 2 inches high; in the attic story, length and breadth the fame, height 9 feet 6 inches.

The groond*floor of the center or chapel building, contains.the dispensary, laboratory, forgery, and dispensers apartments; the first floor, die chapel, cooncil room, with apartments in that and the attic dory, ibr the matrons, aflftmt fergeons, assistant dispensers tec.

The area in the middle of the hospital is handsomely laid out with grass-plats interfered by gravel walks, which are kept in very good order; besides which there is a large airing ground, farrounding the whole, containing in all about twelve acres.

At the higher end of the airing ground to the north, it a large reservoir of water, which by means of a chain pump, throws the water into a leaden cistern, which being higher, conveys the water by means of leaden pipes, into every ward, for the qfe of the patients, deanfing the water dofets, filling the baths ic. every building being fnrnished with a bath and copper for heating the water to the tempera tare required.

Besides this reservoir, a new one has lately been constructed upwards of 43 feet long by 35 wide, and 5 feet 6 inches deep, capable of containing 180 tons of water, intended ibr the purpose of scouring all the main drains, as also the leading drains from the five higher buildings—the others, are regularly cleansed by scavengers employed for that purpose, the drains being so conftrnfted as tc admit of a man walking through them; by this means they are now kept tolerably sweet, the only smell which remains, efpedally when the wind U in certain directions, probably arises from the ctfiernt (or Jlink. trap* as they are called) which are fnnk for the purpose of receiving the foil from the pipes and kept covered with water, to prevent any ofirenfive smell; but as they moil be emptied by hand, provided a fell could be got fcficient to carry off the foil at once from the leading to the main drain, it flioald feoa to be more eligible than this contrivance.*

Patients on admifiioa are walked and supplied with hospital dresses, and their own clothes carried to the fumigating boose. A nurse is allowed for every ten men; the greatest attention is paid to clcanlxnefs, and the keeping the wards always well ventilated.

Some few ere&ons axe (till wanted to render this Hospital complete, t. g. the building a chapel distinct on feme pan of the airing groond, and converting the present one into a dining hall for patients on fall diet; two pavilions at the entrance, one for a receiving room for patients, on admission before they are warded, the other for a council room, surveying invalids See. for want of which many inconveniences in time of war have been experienced.

The Regulations respecting the tatrfes, and other servants of the royal hospital; and the Orders to be observed by the patients are hung up in the hospitaL

A Scheme of Diet to be ofed at Pljwuutb Hospital. ift. Low Diet. Water gruel, pan ado, rice gruel, milk pottage, or broth, and bread and butter, if necessary. For drink, toast and water, ptifan, or white decoction.

ad. Half Diet. For breakfast, milk pottage; for dinner, half a pound of mutton, feme light bread pudding, or in lieu of it, feme greens; a pint of broth, one pound of bread, one quart of small beer; the men upon this diet to dine in their own wards.

3d. Full Diet. Breakfast as above; for dinner one pound of meat, one pint of broth, one pound of bread, three pints of small beer; Tapper in the two lift named diets, to be of the broth left at dinner; or, if thought necessary, to be of milk pottage.

Rice milk, orange whey, orange and lemon water, tamarind whey and water, vinegar whey, balm tea, sage tea. These to be diferetionally ordered by the Physician and Surgeons.

Thus it is done is the Kcw Prifoa at Bwrgm, p. 1(1.

CORNWALL.

Wisterx Circuit.

CORNWALL'

39*

COUNTY GAOL at LAUNCESTON,

FOR F E L O M S.

GAOLER, “John Males, deputy, under the constable of the cattle, Coryndoa Carpenter, Esq. now John Anthony Roe, Esq.

Salary, augmented by the county from fS to 12, now £l6.

Fees, . Felons, £o: 13: 4.

Transports, 4d. a mile each.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Felons, a three-penny loaf each in two days; white or brown at their option (weight in Dee. 177J, of white bread 1 lb.

Number,

tosz.i brown, 0.1b. ooz.J.

1774, Feb. Fdont&c. 19/ 11. 1779, Feb. 4, PdoM Ere. 4.

Sep. 13, 8. 1782, July 3f., O.

*77J. Dec. 23, 6. 1783, Feb. 3. I.

CHAPLAIN,

Duty,

Salary,

SURGEON,

Salary,

Rev. Mr. Lethbridge.

Tuesday and Friday.

£$0, for this and the county gaol at Bodmin.

Mr. Bennett. £* 5*

r.' 1

THIS gaol, though built in the large green belonging to the old ruinous cattle, is very small; house and court measuring only 52 feet by 44 s and the house not covering half that ground. The prison is a room- or passage 23^ feet by 7f, with only one window 2 feet by: and three dungeons or cages on the fide opposite the window: these are about 6f feet deep; one 9 feet long; one about 8; one not s: this last for women. They were all very offensive. No chimney*, no water: no sewers: damp earth floors: no infirmary. The court'not secure; and prisoners seldom permitted to go. out to it. Indeed the whole prison is out of repair, and yet the gaoler lives distant. I once found the prisoners chained two or three together. Their provision was put down to them through a hole (9 inches by 8) in the floor of the room above (used as a chapel); and those who served them there, often caught the fatal fever. At my first visit I found the keeper, his afliftanc, and all the prisoners but one (an old soldier) lick of it: and heard that a few years before, many prisoners had died of it; and the keeper and his wife in one night.

I learned

CI8TOR.

Remarks.

39*

C O t K 'V A I L

Wist* it* Ctuctfit.

Uoicti'

TO*.

|kidi>

VSLfc.

Ilearned that a woman who was discharged just before my first vilit (by the grand jury making a colk&ow for. her fees) had been confined, three yean by the ecclesiastical court, and had three children in the gaol. There is no table of fees.

The King, of his royal bounty, offered £1500 towards a new gaol; but nothing had been done by the county in 1776.

In 1779, fire hundred pounds of the king’s bounty was appropriated to this gaol. In a paffige j£. feet wide there were for awn four ana cells (8 feet by 6±, and 8 feet inches high) a day-room, and a court. Over these rooms are the gaoler’s apartments. Adjoining is the old gaol, which is for women and the court unmade secure: as water.

I was edified by the serious behaviour of the chaplain at prayers. The prisoners respect him, and were very attentive.

The mayor fends the prisoners weekly one shillings worth of bread: no memorial of the legacy in the gaol. Transports had not the king’s allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. Neither dairies against spirituous liquors, nor the act for preferring the health of prisoners, arc hung up.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BODMIN.

The county pays £20 a year for this prison. It is much out of repair; and the walls round the court not safe enough to let prisoners use it. The night-rooms are two garrets, with final! flry-lights 17 inches by 12, close glazed. I was informed that a few years ago the gaol-fever was very fatal, not Only in the prison, but also in the town. Keeper’s salary raised from £20 to £28: fees, i6r. id. no table. Allowance, a three-penny loaf in two days (weight. Dee. 177J, 31 *.). A surgeon to this bridewell; his fidary £20.

1774, Sep. 14, Prisoners 19.

775. 22, - - 29.

779. Feb- ♦> - - *3-

The above was the account in 1779, but now the prison is discontinued, and the prisoners are lent to the mew cmauj-[act in this town.

-SHERIFF’’

Wssruur Circuit.

CORNWALL.

m

SHERIFF’S WARD a t B O D'M I N, thh COUNTY PRISON for orbtors*

KEEPER, Joseph Gatty, afterwards his Widow. . Bosnia.

Salary, £2$.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 13: 4.

besides o: 4: 1 to the ihcriff.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0:2:0.

Number, Debtors.

1774, Sep. 14, 19.

177j, Dec. 22, 18.

1779, Feb. 4, 13.

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, none.

THIS prison, for which the iheriflr paid £40 a year, was out of cepait. Afpapeqs Remarks. back court; with a stream running through it. The keeper paid window-tax,

£3:7:0; and some windows were flopped up.* He said he had been in that office above twenty years; and during the whole time had but four prisoners who obtained from their creditors the allowance commonly called the greats.

This was the account in 1779, but now the prison is discontinued, and the debtoifs are sent to the ntv gaol.

I have mentioned thu eirnmfiamet in the beginning of my work, fqgt 8. and have besides often occasionally noticed it, since in several counties, no demand is made of this tax in prisons j and where it is, the gentlemen in the commission of the peace probably do not know or attend to it, Keepers always pay it with great relnfieaces and it is a- temptation to them to Hop of windows the air from which may be very effeatial to the health of the ptifoners.

3E

COUNTY

394

CORNWALL.

Wttnu Cmoorr.

lomii.

tlliKI.

COUNTY GAOL at BODMIN.

GAOLER, Jmes Chappie.

Salary, £30.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 17: j.

Felons, o: 13: 4.

Transports,

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, men Ac. 1 It. 30X. of bread, and on Sundays half a pound of meat (fee regulationsJ.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: o.

Felons &c. none.

Number, Mmn. rdou. PmroAcnder.

1782, July 31, 14, 4, 8.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Lethbridge.

Duty, Saturday: by his curate.

Salary, (Jte Lasauejtem).

SURGEON, Mr. Handy.

Salary, £30.

THIS new gaol is built on a fine eminence, at a little distance from the town, where there is a constant current of water. Here is a good house for the gaoler, in which there are apartments for master's-Cde debtors, and a chapel. There are separate rooms and courts for each sex of debtors, of felons, and of petty offenders or bridewell prisoners; and each prisoner has a separate lodging-room (about 8 feet 1 inches by 5 feet 8, and 7* feet high), which is furnished with a bedstead, straw-bed, two blankets and a coverlet. There are two rooms for an infirmary, and under them three condemned cells. In two of the courts are baths.—In the centre of the gaoler’s house there is a turret with an alarm-bell and dock.—The men who are confined for petty offences, are employed in {awing and polishing stone, and, as they have the county allowance, have only one sixth of what they earn. Clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up. The act for preferring the health of prisoners is not hung up, but the gaol is now kept very neat and dean.

By

Western Circuit.

C O R N W A L L.

S9S

By a spiriced exertion, the gentlemen of this county have erected a monument of their humanity, and attention to the health and morals of prisoners.*

Here were committed from Jan. 13, 1780, to July *7, 178a, Debtors 75, Felons &c. 92, Petty offenders 94.

The following table of fees and regulations -were printed and hung up, though not ligned.

A Taile of Fees and Rates, proposed to be taken by the Head Gaoler and Turnkeys, at Mtis.

From OESToas. first class.

Every debtor voluntarily going into the maker’s ward, to pay the keeper at entrance.

To the turnkeys, . . -

To keeper at discharge -----

To the turnkeys,

Every debtor lodging in the mailer’s honfe, a bed to himself, ptr week.

Two such debtors in a bed each, ....

Every debtor in matter’s honfe, bringing his own bed for lodging-room,

SECOND CLASS.

Every debtor lodged over the arcades, to the keeper at entrance.

To turnkeys, ......

To keeper at discharge, .....

To turnkeys, ......

Every such debtor over the arcades lodged in the keeper’s bed and room to himself, per week Two such debtors in a bed, each per week, ...

Common debtors having only ttraw, mattress, or their own bed, to keeper at discharge. To turnkeys, ......

DEBTORS IN CENEEAL.

For iigning every certificate to obtain a fttperfedees, or a rule, or order of court.

For copy of IherUF’s warrant, if demanded, ...

For registering any declaration against prisoner, ..

For discharge of every debtor on compofiriod, or by any ad of iniblvency, or lor want of . prosecution, (of which 2/. jd. is to be the turnkey’s fee)

From rnori.

For every felon acquitted and discharged,

For every person bailed oat, or discharged, for which the fee is not paid by the county. For every conviS discharged, -

From persons committed to stitlvm.

For every person discharged from bridewell, ' -

£ $; z>.

0 1 6

O 6 8

O 6

e

0 t 3

0 1 3

0 % 6

O I 6

O f '«

O S' O

O t > 6

O 0 9

O 6 0

O 9- 0

0 1 6

0 1 0

0 1 0

0 *7 5

0 3 4

0 3 4

0 *3 4

O 13 4

I beg leave here to pay my acknowledgments to Jtku Caff, Esq. n worthy magistrate of this county, who has taken unwearied pains in this bnfinefs, for the present of his -very'elegant drawing and plan of this prison.

3 E 2 Articles,

Bodmin

County

Gaol.

39*

C O R«N W A JL L.

WwiU Cnesttn

Boomtw

CW*TT

Gaol.

Arskfeo, T* Ittlaai, and Mbompm, dhMiflid ite Qapl, *ridewa»,amd

I. Tli ^Miitti nr nlhrr wifliimi it ratnirf pnmittnl fnftr tilm

II. No abofe, Ol'treataoit, or adray, to be suffered hmml the prisonet*; if such lb happen,

the often aid jbetton to be at the djAndoa of the bead gaoler, by closer confinement,

harder labour, or reduced allovaace.

III. AQ forts of games for money or liquors, are strictly prohibited, and mod be prevented, and ianorrat excrcifei and such as arecoadacxre to health only to be allowed.

IV. Unas tube provided at foe maty expeaca, and kept randy, bat not tried, except they are aUolotdy aeceflary for ponishment or security.

V. Mafrr or principal debtors of property, are to be lodged at deh'omi reqaeft and choice, in the keeper’s hoafe, paying the established rates and no more, for rooms, beds,- and diet.—Ordinary debtors are to be lodged over the arcades in beds of the keepers, or their own, according to their choke or ability of paying the established rates.

VI. Every man felon, and bridewell criminal, shall be allowed every day one poond and three onnees of good whotefbme bread, and every woman felon, and bridewell criminal,- one poond of the fame fort of bread, anlefs such allowances shall be redaced by order of the bead gaoler for ill* behaviour.

VIL All felons who receive a daily allowance, fboold be kept to fbme work. All persons committed to hard labour shall be dri&ly kept thereto; and all other criminals in bridewell fhoald have some employment. The dated time of tabooing to-be ten hoars payday m fammer, and eight hoars in winter. The keeper to have one filth part, of the earnings, the persons- labouring one fikth part for their own afe, besides the fall amoant of their afr« work, and-the remaining two third parts to go to the coanty dock, towasds the expence of their maintenance.

Vm. Thr h—d pnln n rag his trrll ir thr himr irf 1i r*rng if: i rrlrr fh ir*rTrrrlr in

the evening, from the fird day of October to the thirty-first of llaarl, and- at eight o’clock daring the red of the year. To tiny aUb at opening thr cells, which is to be at fom fifing in the morning, from the fird of November to the thirty-fird of March, and at fis o’clock the red of the year. No petfbn to be faffered to go into the night cells in the day time, anlefs to wash or clean them; the doors and windows to be kept open when the pttfoners are let oot, except the doors at the foot of each drircafe, which are always to he feat.

IX. The night cell* to be cleaned by one of theprifbnert daily, Snd wasted once a week, oroftener, if thoaght necessary, for which nap and brooms wilT be allowed No filth of any hind to be left in the coarts, oar any dicks, Abacs, or other dfttfiwp thrown down the KOafos of office, under frvere ponishment to the offender, and indnlgcttca to the informer.

X. The chaplain will read prayers and preach every Satnrday, government fofi, and thanfcfgiving days, in the chapel, at which all persons in the several wards mad attend, (if in a condition so to do) othawife they will be panished at the difetetiou of the gaoler.

XL AH the felon and htidewdf definquents, who attend divine service the preceding Saturday, and behave well, shall have, besides foe eftaMished allowance of bread, half a poand of meat, at the coanty expence, made into broth* ovary Sunday so* dinner.

XU- It is reqaeded and recommended to the jodices at Bt4mi* feffioot, the grand jury at the affixes, and every jcttice afiing in the commission of foe peace, to inspect, as often as possible, the gad and bridewell, and to enquire into foe treatment of foe prisoners, and foe didribntion of their lelpcfldve allowances.

The hniff ul hia itrpaty, mas a» he hoped, will often-vifitp. and-ooqatre-into-fondam and treat-nestof rhr ftjnf, a wettas foe debtom.

XIII.

Wutm CntoviTt CORNWALL. j'jy

XIII. Tto bad gaoler to Itegi hMk of regitor lor eaeli mrl» ut aUck It it or enter the fol- . bMIf. lowing particulars of every person who fluUI be conuaitted to hit custody.—Date of toif|eaaHl Per(bns name—Place of abode—By whom confined—For what offenco—Stature, completion, Ac,—

Where discharged or how disposed- of—Remarks on behaviour. Sec.

FALMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms, the largest io feet 8 inches by 9 feet 8, dirt floor; no chitnUey: nd court: no water. Keeper one of the town-sergeants, lives near; no salary; fees; it. 8 A no table.

1775, Dec. 19, Prisoners o.

17^3, Feb. 5, - - o.

--- Feb. 13, - -, a.

TRURO Town Gaol. Built about ten years ago. Two houses in front* for the two sergeants at mace who are the keepers. In the back court is the prison; which consists of four convenient rooms, the two upper ones are vaulted, and have chimneys: no water.

i775i Dec. 18, No prisoners. 1783, Feb. 4, Oneprisoner.

PENZANCE Town Gaol. Two dole rooms: no court: no water.

1775, Dec. ai. No prisoners.

At PENZANCE is allb A Prison for the Hundred and Liberties of PtNwiTit.

The property of Lord Armdil. Two rooms in the keeper’s ftabic-yard; but distant from his house, and quite out of fight and hearing. The room for men is full 11 feet square, and 6 high: window 18 inches square:- no chimney: Earth floor; very damp. The door had not been opened for four weeks when I went in f and then the keeper began' to clear away the dirt. There was only one debtor, who seemed to have been robust, but was grown pale by ten weeks dole confinement, with little food, which he had from a brother, who was poor and had a family. He said, the dampness of the prison, with but little straw, had obliged him (he spoke with sorrow) to fend for the bed on which some of his children lay. He had a wife and ten children, two of whom died since he came thither, and the rest were almost (hunting.—He has written me a letter since, by which I learn that his distress was not

mitigated,

39*

CORNWALL.

Western Circuit.

Piium.

mitigated, and that he had a companion, miserable as himself.—No allowance. Keeper no salary: fees, 8 r. 4i. every action: no table.

A few years ago five priibners, I was informed, grew desperate by what they differed in this wretched prison, and broke out.

177s, Dec. ii, Prisoner 1.

LOSTWITHIEL Gaol, for Debtors, Is the property of the Duke of Osmall, lord of the Stannaries. A vaulted room below; a large room on the first floor and three rooms over it. Thcfc arc white-washed once a year. (There are several other rooms designed for confinement, and they were used one year as the lhcriff’s ward for the county.) The rales extend over the whole borough. The keeper told me that he had a prisoner who was arrested for £6: the man had a large family, and not a bad character j yet the plaintiff paid him his groats for two years; and dying the n, bound his estate for the continual payment of them: but the iniblvent act freed the prisoner and the estate. Keeper no salary: fees, 13 s. 44. no table.

1774, Sep. 14, Prisoners 4.

I77J, Dec- 1*. - - 2.

1783, July jo, - - 2.

PENRYN Borough Gaol. Two rooms adjoining to the town-hall, about 7 i- feet square j a chimney in each. The constable is keeper.

1783, Feb. 6, No prisoners.

PENRYN Prison, for Debtors. St. Leonard’s chapel: the property of the earl of Gedtlpbia. One room 13 feet by 12^, and 64. high: window a feet by I foot inches. Keeper now pays rent, £n: ra: o. Fees, ijs. +d. notable. Licence for beer. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up: instead of which, here, as at feme other prisons, and even county-gaolers houses, on the outside, is written. Spirituous liquors fold here.

1775, Dec. 19, Prisoners o. 1782, Feb. 6, Prisoner 1. '

SOMERSETSHIRE.

Western Circuit.

SOMERSETSHIRE.

399

COUNTY GAOL at IVELCHESTER.

GAOLER, Edward Sodding.

Salary, £2$.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 14: 4.

Felons, o: 6:8. Transports, £3: 12: o each. Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two pence a, day each, money j lately in bread (weight, Aug. 2, 1782, 1 lb. loz.).

Garnish, £0:316. '

Number, Debtors. Fckmi ice. Debtor*. Fcloni&c.

1774, Feb. 21, 3h 22. 1779, Feb. 7, 33. »5-

Aug. 2, 45. 18. 1782, Aug. 2, 38. *4-

1775, Dec. 14, 34. 7-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Dumett, afterwards Mr. Pejier, now Mr. Pear/on. Duty, now, only Sunday.

Salary, £50, now £30.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Shetland, now Mr. Palmer» £8, now £16.

THE gaol is near the river, and has no offensive sewers. Debtors have the front court, a day-room and fifteen lodging-rooms, five of which are free wards. The felons have a day-room; and a lodging-room (42 feet by 18), called the long-gaol, in which two small windows towards the river are improperly (topped up: straw on the (tone floorsno bedsteads. The women-felons have a lodging-room and a close court, in which is no water. These have no Jeparate day-room: a room, which is fit, and seems to have been designed for that use, is taken by the gaoler for a (table. No infirmary: no bath. This gaol is too small for the general number of prisoners. Affixes never held here. Prisoners are removed for trial to the bridewell at Taunton , or to Bridgewater, where the prison is only one room; or to Wells, where there is no prison at all: and yet, at Midsummer assize 1775, the prisoners were kept in that city eight days. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up.

From a legacy of Mr. Kelfin1 of Norton, the poorest debtors have fifty shillings at Midsummer. No memorial hung up.

IVELCHES-

TIR.

Remarks.

Smtr/tt,

400

Wwm €n«sn.

SOMERSETSHIRE.

IntCHEf*

TER

Courtt Gaol.

Samar jit, h mxt. At the Gcaml Qjatta Sefions—held the 31ft dajr of March at laraUbaJttr—1761. Before Edveard PMlift, ££). &c.

A Tails of Rath and Fees settled and establHhed—allowed to be takea by the Keeper of the common Gaol in and for the (kid County by virtge of an AA~$ad of G«. If.

For the di&harge of every debtor ...

To the turnkey

For every debtor* lodging singly weekly including the «fe of a bed and bedding Bat if two debtors lodge together then each weekly The gaoler u aot to compel any debtor to lodge fiagle.

If a debtor has a bed and bedding of his own ...

If he lodges in the ootfide ward, then weekly only ..

If a bed of his own then nothing for it

£ * o 13 0 1 0

o I 6 009

o t 0

006

000

Edw* PbtUfS) J*9 BriMdi* The* Complia,

IP" Rodbardy Gila Strmgwaj.

29 Jnly 1761 We do hereby approve and ratify the Table of Fees above written pmrfnant to the foid Haute.

Eakdlt Wilmot W- Non.

Sme^Sr, / erit. At the General Quarter Sefioas of the Peace held at the City of Wdh in and for the said County of Smatrjet, the 15th day of Janaary in the year of oar laud 1760, before Jds Bricidak, the Honourable Grivgr Smrrrilft, the Rev. Thammt Cmmplia Doctor of Laws, William RadSard, John Piattwar, Thamas Gamfta, Charles Straagwaj, Jaba Saaatrs, Esqoires, and other their Companions, Jodices of oar lord the King, afigned to keep the Peace of oar ibid lord the King, and also to hear and determine divers Felonies Trespasses and other Misdemeanors done or perpetrated in the fame Coaaty and so forth.

A Taili of Rates and Fees settled and established at this said General Quarter Sfi&ons of the Peace, allowed to be by the Gaoler and Keepers within their respective Gaols or Prisons io and for the said Coaaty, together with Rales and Orders to be by them respectively observed and kept by Virtae of an Act of Parliament for that Purpose made in the 3rd Year of his present Majesty*$ Reign.

To a Bailiffe: £. $. D.

Foe every might's lodging after twenty-four hours from the arrest - -004

For every day's diet after the said tweaty-four hoars - - - -010

Foe every other expence, the guard and every charge inclnded, for the whole time he

hall Rain in castody - - - - 0)6

To the Keepers of the Publick Hoafes of Correction in the said Coaaty:

For the discharge of every prisoner (except in cases where the coart Stall think it fttoold

not be paid) - - - O lj 4

To the turnkey . - - - e 1 O

for the frifoner* bed and bedding ireckly if fooad by the beeper if finglf if dmU*

each pay only one half - - - . - oto

To

Western Circuit.

SOMERSETSHIRE.

40 k

To the Keeper of the common Gaol ia and for the Itid County:

For the discharge of every debtor aid felon (except in cases where the court dull think it ought not to be paid) .....

To the turnkey -

For every debtor’s lodging singly weekly, including the ule of a bed and bedding If a bed and bedding of his own .....

If he lodges in the outside wads then only weekly ...

If a bed of his own, nothing for it

£ S.

o '3 o 1 o I o 1

o o

IriLCHSS.

D- TER

COtlltTV

^ Gaol. o

6

o

6

Rules and Orders to be obferred as follows Prisoners to be aarefully Ihut up every evening at sun-set; to be let out every morning between Michaelmas and Lady-day at eight of the clock in the morning and between Lady-day and Michaelmas at fix of the clock in the morning To have liberty to buy their own victuals and drink in or out of the prison The felons to have ten pound-weight of clean dry wheaten draw every week Each felon to have a two penny loaf of household bread according to the affiie of bread for the time being each day Felons men and women to be locked up separately from each other every night A sick felon to be kept separate from the rest as conveniently as possible The whole prison -bog-honfe finks and gutters to be kept as clean as possible

John BrickdaU JV. Rodtard y. Somtrs TSe. Gunston This is a true copy of the original filed with the records of the county of Smrrfit.' Examined this act day of May 178a by me

Gee. Worry Deputy clerk of the peace of the said county of Stmrftt

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

TAUNTON. This prison, called Wilton gaol (from the name of the parish in Bama-which it (lands), has on the ground-floor, a work-room, a lodging-room for wt“Sl men, the condemned cell, -and the chapel. On the first floor the women’s lodging-room, a draw-room, and several rooms with beds for prisoners who pay for them.—Men and women are together in the day-room. No employment.

Some years ago, eight prisoners, out of nineteen, died of the gaol-fever. Allowance, two pence a day. Keeper’s salary, £25: fees, 143. 4d. no table. Licence for beer. At my visit in 1779, all the prisoners, and at my last visit two women and a man, were in irons. Two inconvenient bathing tubs; never used.

The county had generously gone to the limit of the act; and appointed to the chaplain of this bridewell, and of that at Shepton-Mallet (as well as to the chaplain of the -county gaol) a salary of £50, but the chaplains in the county gaol and at Shepton-Mallet having neglected their duty, I was informed in 1782, that the justices had reduced the salary here to £20. and token off the whole at Shepton-Mallet.

1774, Aug. 2, Prisoners 7. 1779, Sep. 2, Prisoners to.

-----Sep. 10, - - 5. 1782, Aug. 1, - - 9.

177 j, Dec. 14, - - 16. and Prisoner of war 1.

3 F SHEPTON-

402

SOMERSETSHIRE.

Western Circuit.

Bride-

WIU.

Bristol*

SHEPTON-MALLET. The date over the door, 1625. One day-room for men and women. Men’s night-room too dose. The women’s night-room, 16 feet by 7; the keeper has taken what Items to have been part of it, to make his malt-loft. He told me his prison was some years ago so unhealthy, that he buried three or four a week i no infirmary. He is a sheriff’s officer. Licence for beer: salary, £23: fees, 141. 4d. no table. Allowance, two pence a day: no employment. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. This - prison is white-washed twice a year.—Chaplain, now none.

1774, Feb. 21, Prisoners 44. 1779, Feb. 7, Prisoners 19.

---Aug. 3, to 1782, Aug. 2, - - 12.

177J, Dec- ij. - - 29-

T AUNTON Town Gaol. Two insecure and offeniive rooms in an old house rented by the keeper at £10per amttem. No court: no fewer: no water accessible to prisoners. Keeper no salary. Fees, 6 s. 8 d. no table. Licence for beer.

1782, Aug. 1, Prisoners 2, and one prisoner of war.

BRISTOL CITY and COUNTY GAOL

GAOLER, Hemry Williams, now William Driver.

Salary, none. Gown-money, £2 a year.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 6:8.

Felons, 0:13:4.

Transports, £ 5: $: o each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS*

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a pennyworth of bread a day, before trial; two-pennyworth of bread after condition.

Gamifh, £0: 2: 7.

Number, Man. Fcfaatto. Man. Felon, te.

*774, Feb. 22* S*. 3«. 1779, Feb. 8, 44, ai.

— Aug. 23, 33, *5- Sep. 1, 47. 9-

«775» Dec. 7, 36, l6. 1782, Mar. 1, 33, 32. Pirates 10.

*776, 16, 35. 18.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Eafierbreek.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £36.

SURGEON, Mr. AbelDagge, now Mr. Safftrd.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

BRISTOL

Western Circuit.

SOMERSETSHIRE.

4°J

BRISTOL NEWCATE.

THIS Newgate {as that in the metropolis) (lands in the mid(t of the city. It Remarks. is too (mail for the general number of prisoners. For debtors there are about fifteen rooms j yet no free ward. . The poorest pay ten pence halfpenny a week: others, two shillings and six-pence. For women-felons, a day-room and several night-rooms.

For men-felons, a day-room, which might be conveniently enlarged: a court adjacent 20 feet by 12, very close. Their dungeon, the Pit, down 18 steps, is 17 feet diameter, and 8{- high: barrack-bedlleads: no bedding nor draw. It is close and offensive; only a small window. There is another yard, the Tennis-Court, larger than that of the felons: here (as in several other gaols) I have seen the debtors mix in diverGons with the felons; by which, they become more daring and wicked than the felons. In this court is a convenient bath, but seldom used. Pumps out of order. Here is no proper reparation of men and women, nor of fines, &C. A room or two at the top of the house for an infirmary. There are many narrow passages: the utmost attention is requisite to keep the prison healthy. I found it clean; considering it was so crowded and lo close. It was scraped and white-washed once a year before the act for preserving the health of prisoners. That act is neatly painted on a board hung up in the chapel, which is commodious and has a gallery: several texts of Scripture are painted in sundry pans of it.—Clauses against spirituous liquors are not hung up. No table of gaoler’s fees.

The Rev. Mr. James Rouquet has been unwearied in attention to the spiritual and temporal interests of the prisoners; officiating near twenty years without a salary.

He had only once a gratuity of £0.0.* Mr. Eqfterbrook now appointed. Belides the service noted in its place, there are thirteen sermons a year, for which the preacher has £4. from a legacy.

John Hey Jon left £100 to be lent to two merchants, each paying annually to the corporation for the prisoners as interest of his moiety, £1: 13: 4. Mrs. Aldsworth . left about £$ a year, to be paid by the parish of All-Saints; two thirds of it to debtors, who receive the money usually on Christmas evej the other third part is generally laid out in coverlets or blankets for felons. No memorial in the gaol of any legacy.

A Table of Fees Town Clerk Brificl. Discharge of prisoners from the highest felony to the lowell misdemeanor

£ S. D.

o tj 4

This was written before November 1776, when Mr. Rnfttt died in the forty-seventh year of his age. The general sorrow, and the sermons preached and printed on that occasion, more than jollify what 1 have said concerning the zeal of this pious divine.

3 F z

BRISTOL

SOMERSETSHIRE.

Wistiu CimcoiT.

ISTOl.

BRISTOL Crrr Baidewell. Part of it is in the keeper’s house, on one fide of a common footway: and part on the other fide. In the keeper’s house, the master’s-fide, are three rooms: one a day. room; in the other two are beds at six-pence a night. The common-fide, the bridewell, over the way, consists of two parts separated by a court of about 50 feet by 17. Each part has two rooms on the ground-floor, and two chambers. Total eight rooms (22 feet by 174.) j windows to the court 5 no chimneys. The court being quite out of fight of the keeper’s house, he does not suffer prisoners to use it; nor the pump in it. They have no water but what is handed to them; and all the rooms are very dirty, and made offensive by sewers. Little or no straW: no employment. Keeper’s salary ruled from £20 to £30. He receives the money for bread allowance, two pence a day: but the prisoners often affined me, that what he gave them from his own loaf was far short of two-penny-worth. In Dec. 1775,1 released an acquitted woman prisoner detained for fees 3s. 6d.

1774, Aug. 23, Prisoners 6. 1779, Feb. 8, Prisoners 8.

1775, Dec. 8, - - j. 1782, Mar. 1, - 19.

1776, Dec. 16, - - 7.

BATH Citt Gaol. The afeent to this prison, built in a meadow which is sometimes overflowed, is by a fine flight of stone steps. On the ground-floor is the keeper’s kitchen, tcc. and four rooms for petty offenders. Above are three stories; five rooms on each: one or two of them used by the keeper: the rest for debtors; one bed in a room, in which if two prisoners sleep, they pay two jhillings a week each; if one has it to himself, he pays four shillings a week. Two rooms on the second story are free wards, one for an, the other for man; on the upper floor is their work-ihop. There is a final! court with offensive sewers. Keeper, a sheriff’s officer: no salary; fees, if from the court of requelb, 3s. 6d. Debtors for large sums, yt. id. no table. Licence for beer. Allowance, to debtors, none (they are liberally supplied by voluntary donations); to offenders, 2d. a day. Clanfcs against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up.

Debtor*. Ofaifav Debtors. Offenders.

*774. A“g 16, 2- 779. F'h- to to. 2.

*775» ,2« *776. 16, *4» II, I. 0. Dcfcners 3. 1782, Feb. 28, 3> 5-

BRIDGEWATER Town Gaol. Only one middle-fixed room; and one of the two windows flopped up. In this room at midsummer quarter sessions 1774, were shut up twenty-seven prisoners. At summer 'assize the same year, thirteen; two of them women. Assize generally lasts from Monday to Saturday. The keeper’s mother complained to me of the confusion and distrefo occasioned by confining prifoocn thus for so long a tine.

1774, Sep. 10, and 1779, Sep. a. No prisoners.

YORKSHIRE.

NoRTBiRif Circuit.

YORKSHIRE.

4*»f

COUNTY GAOL, YORK CASTLE.

GAOLER, Thomas Wharton, now William Clayton. Yore.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £o: S: 8.

Felons, o: 9:6.

Admission, o: 3:4.

Transports, - 10: 10: o each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, certified by their parish, 7a fix-penny loaf each on Tuef-Felons, - 5 day and Friday (might, Nov.

*774, 3lh. otox.).

Garnish, cancelled in 1774.

Number, Debtor*. Felons &e. Debtors. Felons Itc,

1774. J«>- aj. no. 33- 1779, May 7, 76, 14.

Nov. 3, 49» 30. Juuei8, 73. 16.

1776, Jan. 26, 89. 44. 1782, Jan. 27, 69, 13-

Sep. ai, 38. 3“-

CHAPLAINS, Rev. Mr. Peacock, and Rev. Mr. Bridges.

Duty, Mr. Peacock Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday; and only from Lady-day to Michaelmas, Sunday. Mr. Bridges a sermon on Friday.

Salary, Mr. Peacock £$o from the county; Mr. Bridges £15 from a legacy.

Not in the lift.

SURGEON, Mr. Stilingjleet, now Mr. Favetl.

Salary, £40 for debtors and felons.

IN the spacious area is a noble prison for debtors, which does honour to the Rima*s. county. There is an afeent by a fine flight of stone steps to a floor on which are eleven rooms, full 16 feet square, near 11 feet high. Above them is the fame number of rooms: one or two of these for common-fide debtors. The rooms are airy and healthy. The debtors weave garters, purses, laces, &c. in the passages, as there is no work-lhop. On the ground-floor are the gaoler’s apartments, &c.

The felons court is down 5 steps: it is too small, and has no water: the pump is just on the outside of the palisades. The day-room for men is only 24 feet by 8: in it are three cells *. in another place nine cells: and three in another. The cells are in general about 7! feet by 6j, and high; close and dark; having only cither

a hole

406

YORKSHIRE.

NtttTHtu Circuit.

Yo«x a hole over the door about inches by 8, or finite perforations in the door of about CxsTi.f. an inch diameter: not any of them to the open air, but into passages or entries. In most of these cells three prisoners are locked up at night; in winter from fourteen to sixteen hours: straw on the stone floors; no bedsteads. There are four condemned rooms about 7 feet square. A fewer in one of the passages often makes these parts of the gaol very ofienfive: and I cannot say they arc dean. Indeed a clean prison is scarcely ever seen, where the water is to be brought in by the gaoler’s servants. The next house to the cafUc-gate, and others in the neighbourhood, have river-water laid in at a moderate expence, and at my last visit it was brought into the castle-yard, but not into the felons court. No bath.

Women-felons are kept quite separate: they have two courts, but no water: you go down four steps to their two dose rooms, a day and a night-room. Their condemned room is in another part of the goal: near it is a room to confine debtors who do not behave well.

The infirmary near the gate is only one middle-sized room. When prisoners of one lex are there, those of the other are excluded: at one of my visits a lick man was kept out for that reason.

At assize iome prisoners appear in court on their trial in the county-clothing.* The county pays Mr. Jcbm Sherwcod £n a year to inspeA and weigh the bread, and deliver it to the prisoners. He constantly attends for this purpose on Tuesday and Friday. The gaoler is a sheriffs officer. Transports convicted at quarter fefikms had, besides the bread allowance, one shilling a week. Thole cast at assize had the king's allowance of is. 6d. a week.

The grand shire-hall in the castle-yard is now finished. May it not be hoped the gentlemen of this great county will not stop there, but proceed to build a proper prison for fdons, in which boys may be separated from old offenders, and the other inconveniences of the present gaol avoided ?—At my last visit, an additional building, opposite to the shire-hall, consisting of several rooms, was nearly finished.f

Y»rkfiirt. Orders and Fees settled by the J offices of the Peace of the Several Ridings of the County of Yerk and confirmed by the Jaffices of Affize—which are to be observed and kept by the gaoler—aad ail prisoners—until the fuse dull be legally altered.

£. S. D.

First That every knight shall pay for his weekly commons at table if he eats with them 0134 For his fee if committed by warrant 00 a civil action - o 13 4

Every esquire for his commons at table weekly if he eats with them 0104

See a more jndictoos praffice, p*gt 338.

4 The pofcUc-spirited Gentlemen of this County have shewn themselves particularly attentive to the improvement of this branch of police. I have to return my acknowledgments (transmitted to me by that lfitive and worthy magiftrite, the Rev. Mr. Ztuch) for the polite notice they were pleased to take of my foggeftions relative to the state of their county gaol.

For

Northern Circuit,

YORKSHIRE.

4®7

For hu fee if committed by warrant on a civil action

Every gentleman for his commons at table weekly if he eats with them

For his fee if committed by warrant on a civil action ..

Every yeoman* tradesman or artificer for his weekly commons at table if he eats with them

For his fee if committed by warrant on a civil action ..

And it is farther ordered that every knight dull pay nightly for his bed -Every esquire for the fame .....

Every gentleman for the fame .....

Every yeoman tradesman or artificer for the fame ...

And that when the gaoler lodgeth two or more prtfoners in one bed they (halt pay for their lodgings amongst them after the rates above And every prisoner who provides his own bed and bedding shall have a room assigned foitable to his or their quality and shall pay nothing for the fame And that upon the discharge of a debtor if there be feverat actions against him the gaoler shall take no more than one fee and that to be . - g

And upon the discharge of every debtor to the turnkeys and no more And that every prisoner shall have liberty to provide and fond for victuals drink and ocher necessaries from any place whatsoever at all foasonable times for their own proper ufo only and not to sell the same And every prisoner committed from the bar by the judge or judges of assize and gaol delivery in the assize week shall pay for their commitment foe only And every person committed to the gaol for suspicion of felony* or for miidemeanor* if upon his or her trial he or flte shall be found not guilty and be thereupon discharged* shall pay to the gaoler for his discharging fee And to the turnkeys ......

And that every person convicted or attainted of felony or found guilty of a miidemeanor which shall be reprieved and discharged by -pardon shall pay to the gaoler for his discharging fee ......

And to the turnkey ......

And every person that shall appear upon recognizance for falpicion of felony and is there* upon committed to gaol and shall not be indited but acquitted by proclamation, shall be discharged paying to the gaoler ...

And all others that shall be committed to gaol before the assizes or gaol.delivery and shall not be indicted but acquitted by proclamation be discharged paying to the gaoler

£ $. D.

O to 4

O 8 0

O 6 8

O $ 4

O 0 6

O 0 6

O 0 4

O 0 2

Yoaie

Castle*

Yorkjbirtt to nuit. At the Assizes—held at the Cattle of /Vi—14th July 17 J 5—the 9th of GEORGE II. before the Honourable Alexander Denton Esquire one of his Majesty’s JaftiCCS of the Coort of Common Pleas* and the Honourable William Lee Esquire one of his Majesty’s Justices of the Court of King's Bench*—Thcfe Orders and Fees* were allowed and approved of by—

Alex Denton W» Lee.

Yorishire East Riding Weft Riding of Yorishire North Riding of Yorkjbiro

John Grim/lon Geo NeHhorpe John Dodsworth

Ramsden Barnard N Hawey. yohn Alilbanie

Tho. Grimflon.. John Wafttll.

An

4°*

York

Casrt*.

Biidi-

wiiu.

YORKSHIRE. NorthmanCircuit.

An Accosot of die Ch aritt giren to the Prisoners in his Majesty’s Gaol the Castle of Tori,

£ s. D.

The Lady Lamliy, to be given yearly m St. Timmmi'i day ud piid by tke lord iu^ot of Thri 670 The honourable and ancient city of Ttrk weekly in bicad - - o a 6

Mn. frmmatTUrmhiO (ot tmr. the lord mayor of Twit has £}0 ia his kudi for that parpofc I 10 O Or. PintMJ ibdgejtBa paid weekly in rolls to all that hear iermons . o a O

Alderman Whitt'* bread by the name of Srnn’i bread, paid Dot of a dole belonging to

Td» Aey,. quarterly 6 s. 6/ - - - . - 160

Mr. Bntt gxn twenty shillings to be paid quarterly in bread -too

Mrs- Mmtj Ltewfim of iUtUigau in the city of Tard widow by will dated die axd July 1719 gave £ 100 for the discharging of poor prifoaees for debt ont of the county gaol of Tmk whole debts did not exceed the font of £ao—and her erccetriaea—Mrs. Cadkrim Bv*on—and Mrs. Jtm tUxvxll discharged with laid money thirty-two priibners.

The right honourable KicharJ earl of bfapn and Sir Gnrgt Sovih Bart, gave each of them ten gainers for the like nfe—with which twenty guineas the Rev. Mr. Cvyby ordinary of the said gaol discharged eighteen prisoners.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

IVEST-RIDING, WAKEFIELD. This prison is unfortunately built upon low ground; so that it is damp, and exposed to floods. Four of the wards are Ipacious; but all the wards and the men’s three lodging-rooms are made very offensive by sewers, which are -dark. Prison and court out of fight from the keeper’s house, though adjoining; and fame prisoners have escaped. They are now let out to the court only half an hour in the day. A prison on ground so low as this, requires the utmost attention to cleanliness.— Keeper’s salary lately raised from ^80 to£ioj; he con trading to supply Jhra/» and cools. No fees. Allowance, two pence a day: little or no employment.—The infirmary con-fists of two rooms arched with brick, 21 feet by 17, and 10 high.

1774, Nov. 4, Prisoners 27. 1779, May 13, Prisoners 20. Impressed 4.

1776, Jan. it, - - 32. 1782, Jan. 26, - - 26.

-----Oci. 27, - - 19.

NORTH-RIDING, THIRSK. Six rooms on the ground-floor, in one of them a chimney. The county has ground enough about this prison to enlarge it, and separate the men and women. If they do, they should think of an infirmary; for the keeper told me his prisoners had the gaol-fever not long ago. His salary, £26: 10: o. Fees, 2s. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1776, Jan. 13, Prisoners 3.

1779, June 28, - - - 2, and one lunatic.

1782, Mar. 23, -. - 9.

EAST-

Northern Circuit.

YORKSHIRE.

EAST-RIDING, BEVERLEY. On the ground-floor, three finall night-rooms; #nd a new work-room with a chimney: above, four rooms for those that pay. In the court not only a pump, but a cistern of rain-water. Coals, two chaldron and a half a year. No draw. I saw some tile-iherds, which probably were deflgned for employment. Keeper’s salary, £30: fees, 4*. no table.

1774, Nov. 2, Prisoners 2. 1779, May 7, Prisoner 1.

1776, Jan. 28, 1. 1782, Jan. 29, - - 1.

----- Sep. 21, - - 2.

YORK CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Quintin Ackam, now Francis Meggefon.

Salary, now £10. He pays £10: 10: o a year to the under-sheriff. Fees, Debtors, £0:6:8.

Felons, 0:7:8.

Transports, probably the fame as at the cattle.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but legacies. (See Remarks.)

Felons, of late, nine pence a week in bread.

Garnith, £0:7:0.

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons &c.

1774, Jan. 2 J, 11. 7- 1776, Sep. 21, 10, 2. Deserters 2.

Nov. 3, 5. I. 1779, May 7, 12. 2.

1776, Jan. 26, CHAPLAIN, none. 9. 3- 1782, Jan. 27, 5. 3-

SURGEON, Mr. Wallis, occasionally.

THIS gaol upon Ouse-bridge, called the Kidcots, has on one fide of the bridge four convenient chambers for debtors, about 11 feet square: for these they pay fix-penc* a week. Below them is a free ward with barrack-beds; and a room to the street. At the window they fell nets, purses, laces, &c: over it is an inscription on a (tone tablet, “ He that giveth to the poor, lenieth to the Lord." The act for preserving the health of prisoners, painted on a board, is hung up in the debtors hall.

The men-felons ward on the other tide is down 11 steps: that adjoining, for women, down 10. There is a new room, level with the ground, 31 feet by 14, with opposite and lofty windows, for prisoners committed on suspicion of felony. At the inner door of this prison, which was of iron grates, I have teen liquors handed

3 G to

JJaio*-

WSLt-

Yoas-

RtHAMC

410

YORKSHIRE.

Kouhcm Ci*.coit.

Tok

C.TT-

to tfaofe who seemed to hive had enough before.—At my fiift vifics there was no water in this prison, but when there was too much; that is, in a very high flood; then it flows into the rooms: now water is laud in.—Gaoler, a sheriff’s officer for city and county. There is now a table of donations hung up.

City tfTtrk. At the General Qoarar Seioai at GmUdiall—15th Jnljr—17)7 before the Right Honourable Sir Jsfiu Lifer Kaye Ban. Lord Mayor—Yfanvi Platt Ef<jr. Recorder—Charta Sliu^Sy Efijr, of Counfid—Sir Taatni Rtbirnfm Ban—Ac.

Gaolkr*s Fees Settled and Otnsis made &c.

For the difrharge of every debtor for the first action, to the gaoler

And for the difrharge of every other action to him ..

To the poitei or turnkey for the first action ...

And far every other action to him ....

For the discharge of every other persan from the affixes or sessions to the gamier And to the turnkey .....

For tke first week’s diet of all persons in the opper gaol ..

And for all father time as the prifaner and gaoler can agree* And the gaoler is to permit prifeem to provide their own diet alter the first week if the prisoner pleases Far lodging if the gaoler finds bed bedding and Iheets far the first night And far every other night .....

And if two lie in one bed far the first night each ...

And far the second and every other night each ...

For lodging in the npper gaol if the prisoner finds his own bed, bedding and iheets far every week

If two in a bed each ......

And every prifaner shall have liberty of finding the fame if he thinks proper.

And the gaoler shall have liberty if he fees occasion to have two beds in each room and no more.

Ami it it Ordtrti that every person of what degree or condition soever—who shall ufe—swearing, enrfing, railing or other indecent behaviour—ihall—pay for every such offence twelve pence to the gaoler or his deputy on demand; and on refu&l—to be levied by distrefr on goods—or flopped out of Ibare of box-money—or stand in charge to be paid before releafa—the fines to be distributed at gaoler’s diferetson amongst the most needful in the low gaol.

Every prifaner who attempts—or affish an escape -to be ironed.

Thofa who mutiny on gaoler or deputies—or hinder or distarb &c.—to be kept in close confinement. On deftnlt of weekly payments afarefrid—after demand and refusal—a prisoner may be moved from the sifter's fide—to the common room.

c s. D.

0 5 4

0 1 0

0 1 0

0 0 6

0 6 8

0 1 0

0 7 0

0 0 6

0 0 3

0 0 4

0 0 2

0 0 6

0 0 3

y L Kmjty Mayor.

T, Platt

Bam, Clothe.

City efTtrh, f amt. Donations to the Prisoners in the Gaol upon Onfe-bridge in the said City.

Mrs. E&zmhttk Yaytmi by will, dated 21ft October 1580, gave three shillings and four pence yearly, to be divided amongst the prisoners, on Lady-day.

The corporation of York pay yearly PtaeaeP* gilt, being three pounds fear shillings, to be divided amongst the poor prisonen.

Mr. William EAmmjm* gift, being'one pound fix (hilling?, is distributed weekly in bread to the prifaners*

YORK

Northern Circuit.

YORKSHIRE.

4*i

YORK City Bridewell. Has a day-room for men, and another for women: the latter is damp. Down steps are five night-rooms for men; and a large one, with barrack-bedftcads for women. The whole dirty and ofifenlive, not white-washed these thirty years. No court: no water: no fewer. Keeper’s salary, £20: fees, a/, straw, £s a year: no bread allowance. One chaldron of coals annually from the corporation.—At one of my visits some prisoners were employed, in beating or pounding tile-lherds for the bricklayers, which is sold at 81/. or yd. a bushel.

1774, Nov. 3, Prisoners 3. 1779, May 8, Prisoners 4.

1776, Jan. 26, 1. ----- June 28, 8.

----- Sep. 20, - - 4. 1782, Jan. 27, - - 3.

St. PETER’s Gaol, for the liberty of St. Peter of York, near the MinAer-gate, is the property of the Dean; who holds his courts here. He has lately purchased an adjoining tenement for his gaoler to live in; in consequence, the two rooms in which he lived before are added to the debtors apartments, and they have now four rooms. Under those are two cells for criminals. All out of repair: no court: no sewers. No allowance.

There is a printed lift of parishes, towns, and parts of towns which are in the liberty of St. Peter. Within the city and ainfty, nine places: in the East-Riding, sixty-two; West-Riding, forty j North-Riding, fifty-one: and there is one place in each of the following counties; Devonshire, Gloceftershire, Lancashire, Lincolnshire, Northumberland, Southampton, i. e. Hants. In Nottinghamshire, seven places.

Gaoler a bailiff: no salary. He pays rent, £4: fees, 6s. id. no table.

1776, Jan. 27, Debtor 1. 1779. June 28, Debtors y. Felon 1.

----- Sep. ao, - - 1. 1782, Jan. 28, - - 2. - o.

1779, May 8, - - 2. Felon 1.

BEVERLEY Town Gaol. Has on the ground-floor two rooms for men-criminals j and above, a room for women: and two for debtors. No water: no straw. Keeper no salary, but as sergeant at mace has £3: fees, 4*. no table. Licence for beer. A common alehouse, like many other town gaols.

Debtor*, Criminal* Debtor*. Criminal*.

1774, Nov. 2, 1, 0. 1779, May 7, 2, o.

1776, Jan. 28, 2, o. 1782, Jan. 29, o, o.

----- Sep. 21, 1, 1.

The Hall-Garth, for Debtors, in the liberty of St. Jehu's of Beverley, the property of Charles Anderson Pelham, Esq. built a few years since, has over the hall five rooms (16 feet by 10); two of them have fire-places. No court: no water:

3 G 2 fees.

York

Citt.

YORKSHIRE.

Northern Circuit.

.4*2

Biuiur. fees, 41. id. no table. There is a list of 113 towns or parts of towns, that are within the liberty of St. Jtim's of Beverley or Bcvcrky-Hall-Gaith.

*774» Nov. 2, Prisoners 2. 1779, May 7, Prisoner 1.

1776, Jan. 28, - o. *782, Jan. 29, - - 2.'

-----Sep. 21, o.

RICHMOND Gaol, For the very extensive liberty of Richmond and Rich-mondihirc, late the property of Lord Haldentejs, now of Sir Thomas Dondas. It is also the bridewell, and the borough gaol. For debtors, a kitchen and bed-room, dose glazed. For criminals, two arched dungeons down 5 steps; the inner one 15 i feet by 6, and 6 feet 8 inches high: the aperture in the door only 6 inches by 3. No straw. Clauses against spirituous liquors hung up. A Court, and a well. Gaoler a bailiff: no salary for the liberty: for the bridewell, £13: 10: O: for the borough, £4: pays window-tax: fees, debtors, 6 s. id. at entrance, and 6s. id. at discharge: criminals, i6r. 4d. -. allowance to the latter, four pence a day.

Here is a table of fees, dated Aug. 17, 1671, and signed IV; tVylde and 3); Ljttltton. The several articles for the commons, and commitments of knights, esquires, gentlemen and yeomen, are the fame as those in the castle at York. The two following are not in the table at the castle, of which the latter is properly omitted there. “ And “ be it further ordered that every person or persons of what degree estate or condition whosoever they be, being or remaining a prisoner within the said gaols that " shall use or frequent any unlawful (wearing, railing, reasoning or other undecent conference of any matter whatsoever, at any time or rimes whilst he is a prisoner, “ that every such person or persons lb offending, shall forfeit for every such fault “ the film of 12 d. to be levied upon his goods, and to be bellowed upon the poor “ men and women in the low gaol or prison, or every such person so offending to be

“ committed to the said low prison, at the discretion of the keeper of the gaol or

" his deputy there."

“ Every person or persons that shall be committed upon any warrant—upon his “ her or their commitment to gaol shall pay to the rest of the prisoners, 2 S. 4 d. a for their garmjb.”

1776, Oft. 26, Debtors 6.

1779, May 8, - 6. Petty Offenders 1.

1782, Nov. 19, - - 13. 2.

RIPON LiIKRTt Gaol, Is the property of the Archbishop, by a charter from king Edward IV. His court adjoining, is called the Court Military. The liberty includes twenty-four parishes. For debtors, four or five good rooms in the keeper’s house; but no free ward. For felons, one strong room quite dark; another with

a little

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE.

a little window. Formerly there was a deep dungeon, but; the present (toward, instead of repairing it, very humanely ordered it to be filled np. Allowance to felons, 6 d. a day. Keeper, no salary; he pays rent: he is a bailiff. Fees, debtors, ijs, 4</. notable: licence for beer.

1776, Oft. 26, Debtors a.

1779, May 8, - -3.

1782, Nov. 19, - - O.

RIPON Gaol, For the Canon-Fee Court, belongs to the dcaq and chapter of Ripon. It is not only a gaol for that court, but a house of correction for the liberty. Three rooms for debtors, but no free ward. The bridewell part, two dark rooms, 8 feet by 7. No court: no water. No salary as gaoler; as keeper of bridewell, £10: 10:0. Fees, debtors, 13^.41/. notable: licence for beer. Keeper a bailiff.

1776, oa. 26, Prisoners o.

-1779, May 8, Debtor 1. Petty Offender 1.

1782, Nov. 19, - - o. o.

KNARESBROUGH Prison, for Debtors, In the honour or' forest of Knarelbrough, the liberty including nineteen townships &c. is the property of- the duke of Deveufiire, lessee to his Majesty. It is almost the only remains of a calUe granted by king Edward 111. to John of Gaunt duke of Lancaster. One room about 12 feet square, is now boarded, has a chimney, and the window is glazed: another inner room is about 8 feet square, and has no window. No court: no fewer: no water. Keeper lives distant: salary none: fees, 6s. id.

1776, Oa. 26, Prisone

1779, May 8, - - o.

1782, Nov. 20, - 1.

KNARESBROUGH Prison, for Town Debtors, Is under the hall. Of difficult access; the door about feet from the ground. Only one room, about 12 feet square: window 17 inches by 6. Earth floor: no fire-place: very oflfenfive; a common fewer from the town running through it uncovered. I was informed that an officer, confined here some years Cnee, for only a few days, took in with him a dog to defend him from vermin; but the dog was soon destroyed, and the prisoner’s face much disfigured by them.

At my last visit the door-way was altered, the floor paved with flag-stones and the drain covered.

1776, Oft. 26, 1779, May 8, and 1782, Nov. 20, No prisoners.

KNARES-

Ripon.

4*4

YORKSHIRE.

Northsrh Circuit.

Ksakii-

fttOCCH.

KN ARESBROUGH Town Gaol, Is under the landing^-place between two flights of stone flops, that lead up to the hall. Only one room about 8 feet by $: two windows 18 inches by 6. I mention this small prison, because in it are sometimes confined for a night or two at quarter sessions six or seven prisoners, men and women.—At my last visit this prison was arched with brick, and made more convenient (now 13 feet 8 inches by 5 feet).

1776, Oft. 26, 177J, May 8, and 1782, Nov. 20, No prisoners.

DONCASTER Town Gaol. Two rooms for felons, and two over them for debtors: all have chimneys. No water. Keeper one of the sergeants at mace. Fees, 11. 4d. Allowance to felons, four pence a day.

i77ji Jan. 5, Prisoners 2.

*779. June 27. - - o.

178a, April 4, Debtor 1.

BRADFORD Prison, for Debtors from the Court of Requests, for Halifax, Bradford, &c. &c.—In 1779 the prison consisted of four rooms, and a work-room. Court not lecure: no water. The deputy keeper paid rent £2: $: o for his house to the gaoler, who pud rent to the clerk of the court, by whom he was appointed. Prisoners were discharged at the end of three calendar months. Fees, yr.*

At my last visit this prison was disused, and another occupied at the back of the keeper’s public house. It consists of four rooms about twelve feet square. Keeper’s salary £20, and he receives (5 rent for the prison. One of the prisoners whose debt was only four Drillings, had five children, and he laid he never before had been in prison.—By a new act 20th Geo. IIIV Cap. lxv. (on a plan more humane than the former) the court fees are reduced, and confinement “ not exceeding sixty days.”

1779, May 13, Prisoners 12. 1782, Nov. 21, Prisoners 7.

LEEDS Town Gaol. Four rooms fronting the street, 12 feet by 9, and a final) one. No chimney: no court: no water: no fewer. Keeper lives distant. Two delerters lately escaped by filing the bars: since this the windows are double barred, so that no files can be conveyed to the prisoners. f

1774, Nov. 4, Prisoners o. 1782, Jan. 26, Prisoners o.

*77^, Jan. 12, - - o. Nov. 20, - - 1.

1779, May 13, - - o.

By the 17th Gr». III. Cap. xt. f la this town is a fa all neat infirmary of forty-eight beds. The wards are lofty, and were aot efcafire; and cbe confiro&ion of the bailding seemed to me better calc slated for the health of the patients, than that of mod of our county hospitals and infirmaries.

Kittgfio*

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE.

Kingston upon HULL Town and County Gaol. The debtors ward is 224 feet by i6f. Over it one as large for men, and over that, another smaller for women: both for criminals. The ground-room is a dungeon, now used for the military. In the keeper’s house are five rooms with beds, for those who pay a shilling a week. Leads for debtors to walk on: no court: no water accessible to criminals: no fewer; and the felons rooms are offensive. Gaoler no salary. Fees, ijt. 4J. no table. Mr. Whitehouse the surgeon has two guineas a year, to report at the quarter sessions, the state of the health of the prisoners. Allowance to felons, three pence a day. A collection is made, from which the debtors receive some supply, on Sundays and Thursdays. Gaol delivery once in three years.* The act for preserving the health of prisoners is hung up, but not the clauses against spirituous liquors.

Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Fdodi&e.

1774, Nov. 1, 5> O. 1779, May 7, 8, I.

1776, Jan. 29, 6, 3 17 & 2, Jan.30, 7. 4*

4, s-

Kingston upon HULL Bridewell. Two rooms below, two rooms on the first floor, and three on the second, about 12 feet square; very offensive: no fire-place. Court only 22 feet by 10; not secure, and prisoners not permitted to go to the pump: no fewer: no allowance: no straw. Debtors from the court of conscience sent hither, or the common gaol, for three calendar months by the 2d George III. Cap. xxxvni.

The prisoners pound tile-lherds to mix in mortar (for which they have a bushel) j and pick oakum (for which they are allowed 4-id. per stone). Keeper’s salary,; a chaldron of coals; and four thousand turfs: fees, 21. 6 i. no table.

1774, Nov. t, Prisoners 2. 1779, May 7, Prisoners 11.

1776, Jan. 29, - j. 1782, Jan.30, Debtors 2.

----- Sep. 21, o. Petty Offenders 4.

Every time a raving lunatic, t and the two last times another lunatic.

SHEFFIELD Prison, for Debtors, For the liberty of Hallamshire, was the property of the duke of Norfolk, now of the earl of Surrey. The two lower rooms are free wards: there are two rooms over them. The court is only about 10 feet square. Both this and the prison might be enlarged on ground adjacent that belongs to his lordship. Keeper no salary: he rents a public house joining to the

Seepage 15.

f Theoealnefs and cleanliness of the poor.beajt, do the gentlemen of this town much credit; therefore, I was the more forpriied at such total inattention to the house of correction, that they permitted one of the most profane lunatics, Mr. S—S, to continue there for lb many years.

prison.

4 IS

Hull.

4l6

YORKSHIRE.

WtranlH CTmeow.

Sri?>

FIELD-

prison. Debtors from the court of requests are discharged at the- end'-of thirteen weeks.—At my last visit, one of the debtors, a- cutler, way at work: his debt only-fifteen pence, and the charges seventeen- shillings and six-pence.

1776, Jan. 10, Prisoners 6. >779. May (4, Prisoners 8.

----- Oft. 28, - - 4. 1782, Jan. 25, - - 3.

SHEFFIELD Tows Gaol. The Lobbies under the town-hall are two small rooms, the largest only about 8 feet square, and 6 high. Aperture in the door of 6 inches diameter. When the quarter sessions for the West-Riding are held at this town, offenders are locked up a night or two in this prison.

1776, Oft. 28, Dderter 1.

1779, May 14, Prisoners o.

1782, Jan. 25, - - o.

ROTH WELL Prisoh, for Debtors, Belongs to the liberty of the honour of Pontefract in the duchy court of Lancaster. Is out of repair.

A new prison is lately built at

BATLEY. Behind a house for the keeper is the prison. Plan, re&angular: the front is the wall and gate. On three sides are roams for men-debtors; five or six about 10 feet square; four much larger for two beds in each. Two day-rooms; two work-rooms; and a dark room for the unruly: but at my last visit the day and work-rooms were used for lodging-rooms. There are in a Jeparatt court two. rooms for scnun-debtors: a provision very kind and prudent, and, I believe, peculiar to this prison. All the prison rooms are on the ground-floor. The keeper is a bailiff: has no salary. Licence for beer and wine. Fees, Jet table. He pays the chief bailiff'£21 per aavtm: and rent £60.

1774, Nov. 4, Prisoners zSi 1 f Rotbwell.

1776, Jan. 25, - - 22,! )

Oft. 27, - 4r ' )

1779. Mar »j. - - .8, > Rat ley.

178a, Nov. ai, - 25. J

In the oid prison at Rctbnxll, I saw both times I was there, one William Carr, a weaver: he had given a bad name to a woman who was said not to deserve a very good one: (he cited him to the ecclenafiical court; and he was imprisoned 4th of May 1774. He had a wife and three children. I will traoferibe a lice or two of the warrant.—* For as much as the royal power ought not to be wanting to the heir church in its complaints—attach the said W. C.—until he shall have made jathfidioa to the holy church as well for the contempt as for the injury by him done unto it.” He was discharged 26th July 1776 by the infolrent ad; a clause being tbt* injerttd for those prisoners.

1 wish

NoktHiftN Cntcvrr. YORKSHIRE.

I wish my reader be not tired with lo many tables of fees, even for the counties. Yet I think I mull not omit the fees which I saw in this private prison at Rothwell: because some of them are high; and at Halifax they are the fame. The table was regularly signed, nth January 1733.

At my first visit at Batley, I found a new table of fees, dated 36th July 1776, the Aims entirely the fame.

£. S. O.

Imprimis. That every gentleman fall pay for his first week’s commons at table, and for

hu commitment fee . . . . . 0160

And for every week following - - - - *0$o

Item. Every yeoman, txadefman, or artificer, for the first week's commons at table and

commitment fee - - - - . - *0134

And for every week following - - - >040

And be it farther ordered, that every gentleman shall pay nightly for his bed 004

And every yeoman, tradesman, or artificer, lodging In good rooms and on feather beds 00a

And it is also ordered that when the gaoler lodgeth two or mote prisoners in one bed

they shall pay amongst them per night according to their numbers - *003

And that every prisoner fall have liberty to provide for him or herself whatever necessarie* he or ftic Hull want from any person or place whatsoever.

And that every prisoner shall be fvrniftied with necessaries according to his, her or their degrees and quality, paying a reasonable price for the fame.

And that bat one fee shall be taken by the gaoler for any prisoner's discharge, although

there has been more than one action against him or her, which foe shall be o 17 4

And to the turnkey - - - .010

Item. For allowing every super/eduu in every action - - - - 068

Item. For allowing every writ of habeas corpus besides condnd money to be paid and allowed according to the distance from the said gaol to the place where the body is to be removed - - . . . . 068

Hen. Wickham P. Milner H. Zoutb

We—do hereby confirm the fame—this 26th day of July 1776.

y. Norton

P. Milner W« H. Ashurst.

H. Zouch.

3h

HALIFAX

4«7

Bmir.

YORKSHIRE.

Northern Circuit.

*18

Hilimx.

HALIFAX PRISON,*

For the manor of Wakefield, dated 1662, is the property of the duke of Leeds. For maftcT's-fide debtors, four rooms in the keeper’s public house. Through this you pals to a court about 14 yards by 7: at the further end of which is a sizeable room on the ground-floor for common-fide debtors, it is called the Low Gaol: over it a chamber (the Law Gael Chamber} where prisoners pay one Hulling a week. The whole prison greatly out of repair: it rained in upon the beds: the rooms were clean. Keeper, no salary: he pays the duke ^24 a year; and pays window-tax for the gaol. Fees, lee Batley, preceding page.

Here is difbibuted to the prisoners 3*. 4£. in bread the first Saturday in every month, from a legacy of Mr. Jonathan farmer, who died about 1724. This is mentioned in Watson’s Htflorj frfc. of Halifax, 4to. 1775, page 645. “ Jonathan

“ fnrner of Halifax, butcher, left by will forty shillings yearly to the poor prisoners “ in Halifax jail, to be given them in bread. This annuity is charged on feme “ housing in Cheapside, in Halifax, or the street leading from the north end of “ Sontbgate to Bull green." These houses are in the possession of Mr. Waterhouse, who constantly pays the legacy, and his name almost endues the continuance of the benefaction.

1776, Jan. 24, Debtors 9.

----- Sep. 16, - - 7.

1779, May 13, - - j.

1782, Nov. 21, - - 7.

la this towi, formerly the baroas (as ia Buy other places), and after them, various proprietors had power of life asd death. The method of execution was decollation by an axe in an engine. The ue is preferred in the gaol to this day. Two men in 1650 were the last who fuffeted by it.

When any felon was here found guilty, the bailiff1 immediately returned him back to prison for the space of one week or thereabouts, asd on every market-day, there being three a week, the felon was let in the public docks; ud either upon his back, if the thing dolen was portable, or if not, then before his face the goods were Jb placed, that they might be noted by all passengers.

If it was a horse, an oz, or cow, See. that was taken with the prisoner, it was thither brought along with hint to the place of execution, ud fattened by a cord to the pin that flayed the block, so that when the time of the execution came (which was known by the jurors holding up one of their hands) the bailiff, or his icreut, whipping the bead, the pin was plucked out, and execution done. But if there was no bead in the felon’s case, then the bailiff, or his fetvant, cut the rope.

See Halifax mod its Gibbet-Law.

DURHAM.

Northern Circuit.

DURHAM.

4>9

COUNTY GAOL at DURHAM.

GAOLER, Batnbridge Waljon, now Thomas Bungey, by patent from the toiihop durante bene flacito.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, - - £o: to: o.

Felons at Assize, - o: 16: 8.

Quarter Sessions, o: 13: 4.

Transports, about £10; 10: O each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, two pence a day.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 4: 6.

Felons, 0:1:0.

Number, Debtors* FcJow&c.

1774, Mar. ao, 37, 41.

1775, Jan. 6, 9, 20.

1776, ---14, 21, 12.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Decent.

Duty, Sunday and Tuesday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Bainbridge.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

THE high gaol is the property of the Bishop. By patent from-his lordship. Sir Hedworth Wtlliamjon, Bart, is perpetual sheriff. The court for master's-fide debtors is only 24 feet by to: they are permitted sometimes to walk on the leads. They have beds in the upper hall and in several other rooms. Their rooms should be cieled, that they might be lime-whited, to prevent infectious dif-orders, and that great nuisance of bugs, of which the debtors complain much here and at other places.—Common-fide debtors have no court: their free wards, die Lota Gaol, arc two damp unhealthy rooms 10 feet inches square, by the gateway: they are never suffered to go out of these, unless to chapel, which is the master’s-fide debtors hall; and not always to that: for on a Sunday when I was there, and miffed thfem at chapel, they told me they were not permitted to go thither. No sewers: at more than one of my visits, I learned that the dirt, allies, &c. had lain there many months. There is a double-barrelled pump, which raises water about 70 feet.

3 H 2 Felons

Debtors. Fdoosftc.

1776, Oft. 2j, 18, 6.

1779, June 29> 14, 22. Deserter t.

1782, Mar. 24, 20, 19.

Duihau.

Remarks.

DURHAM.

NoftTBUt* Ciacwrr.

420

Diuii

Coiitt

Gaol.

Felons have no court; but they have a day-room and two small rooms for an infirmary. The men arc put at night into dungeons: one 7 feet fquate for three prisoners: another, the greet bale, i6i feet by 12, has only a little window. In this I law fin prisoners (in 1776), mod of them tTtntfprrti, chained to the floor. In that fituarion they had been many weeks; and were very sickly. Their straw on the stone floor ahnoft worn to dust. Long confinement, and not having the king’s allowance of 11. 6 d. a week, had urged them to attempt an efcope: alter which the gaoler chained them as above. There is another dungeon for women-fclons 12 feet by 8; and up stairs a separate room or two.

The common-fide debtors in the low goal, whom I law eating boiled bread and water, told me, that this was the only nouriflunent fomc had lived upon for near a twelvemonth. They have from a legacy one shilling and six-pence a week in winter, and one Hulling a week in summer for coals. No memorandum of it in the gaol; perhaps this may in time be loft, as the gaoler laid two others were, nz. one of bishop Crewe, and another of bishop Waad; from which, prisoners had received no benefit lor some years past. But now the bishop has humanely filed'bills in chancery and recovered these legacies, by which several debtors have been dilchatged.—Half a crown a week is paid to a woman for fopplying the debtors with water, in the two rooms on the fide of the gateway.—The act for preferring the health of prisoners not hung up. The clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up. Gaol delivery aoce a year. At several of my visits there were boys between thirteen and fifteen years of age, confined with the moll profligate and abandoned.

There was a vacant piece of ground adjacent, of little use but for the gaoler’s occasional lumber. It extends to the river, and measures about 22 yards by 16. I once and again advised the enclosing this for a court: as it might be done with little expence, and it appears that formerly here was a door-way into the prison: but when I was there in January 1776, I had the mortification to hear that the surgeon, who was unde to the gaoler, had obtained from the bishop, in October preceding, a lease of it for twenty-one years, at die rent of one shilling per omum. He had built a little liable on it.

TABLE OF FEES Ac.

tout sml Osasu dbUiAcl by tk—Jifticci for the County Palatinate of Dmrbmm and SeJltrp at their General Quarter Sessions—t6tk Joly ijtj and Fees allowed to be taken by the Keeper of the said Gaol and his Officers as follows.

£ S. D-

tmfrmu. For every prifoser lodging in either of the common-fides commonly called the

low gaol, no chamber-rent - . -000

Iigm For an enure rhimber without a bed fellow in the Ugh gaol -036

For lodging with a bed-fellow in any other chamber except the common chamber, for each

prisoner every week - - - - o z o

For

Nortmuii Cncoir

DURHAM:

For lodging with a bed-fellow io the common chamber, of each prifpser every week For lodging in a fiogle bed In that common chamber without admitting of a bed-fellow in every week - - - . . ‘

Oat of which abatement shall be made For every prisoner that findeth hit own bedding bedcloatht and (beets and admitting . a bed-fellow with him every week - . -

421

£. S. D. e i 3 BvaHAM CoUNTT O' i * Gaol.

094

For Diet of Prisoners.

Item For every knight for every week ..

Of every esquire or gentleman not exceeding for every week Item Of every yeoman artificer or labourer not exceeding weekly For wine ale and brandy at the common rates used in the town.

0 10 0

076 060

For Literates or Final Pifcharges of Prisoners.

Item For the discharge of every prisonernpon process or order from the court of chancery For the first liberate -----

Item For every knight esquire or gentleman for the second ditto -

For every one more .....

Item For every yeoman artificer or labourer for the first -

For the second - - . . '

For every one more .....

Feet to the Under Keeper and Poor Keeper.

Item For attendance of every prisoner that goeth abroad into the town every time

For every knight esquire or gentleman for his final discharge and enlargement only For every yeoman artificer or labourer for such discharge only

o to 0

010 039 016 o 9 8

0 3 9

016

004

006

006

Tho Burdus Han* P*Jlert Mayor

Morland Giles Raine:

Mic Brabin

We Sir Freuds Page Knight ooe of the Justices of his Majesty’s Court of King’s Bench and Sir Bern. Hale Knight one of the Barons of his Majesty's Court of Excheqoer at Westminster now jaflices of Assize for the Northern Circuit have reviewed the above Table of Fees and have thought fit to moderate the item or article of two /hillings a week for lodging with a bedfellow in any other chamber except the common chamber to be paid by each prisoner, and instead thereof do appoint one shilling and six-pence per week to be paid by each prisoner so lodging with a bedfellow which /aid table with such alteration is hereby confirmed by us

Dated the 2d day of August 1729

F Page B Hale.

COUNTY

4“

NEWCASTLE upon TYNE.

Noktrcbh Cncvrn

viu.

Nfw-

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at DURHAM,

Was built, as appears by the date over the door, in 1634. Being on the fide of a hill, the rooms are airy. No court: now a pump.in the prison with good water: the late keeper Wation had a garden which he let for a guinea a year. He lived at the high gaol; and put.in a woman to take ca;e of this prison. But the justices since very properly put in a keeper to reside in the prison: he is now dead and his widow is keeper. At my visit in 1779 the house was clean, the prisoners were at work, and their looks bespoke the attention of a good keeper. At my last visit too, the house was very clean. Salary, £30, and £9:2:0 from the rents of the adjoining hordes.—Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

1775, Jan. 6, Prisoners 5. 1779, June 29, Prisoners 9, and three lunatics.

1776, --14, - 7. 1782, Mar. 24, - - 8, and one lunatic.

-----OA. 25, - - 6.

NEWCASTLE upon TYNE.

NEWCASTLE TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Join Crater, now Thomas Harle.

Salary, £50, and £2 gown-money.

Fees, Debtors, £0: to: 8.

Felons, o: 14: 4.

Transports, only expence.

Licence, now Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, two pence a day, on petition.

Felons, two pence a day.

Garnilb, cancelled.

Number, Detain. Fek»i *c. Debtor,. Felon, ia.

1774, Mar. at. 6, 2. 1779> June 30, 13> 4-

177S> Jan. 8, «2, 4- 1782, Mar. 25, 12, 1.

VO r- r-' If, 14, 3-

C HAPLA1NS, Rev. Mr. Brmlcn, now Mr. Brown, and Rev. Mr. Brand.

Duty, on Sunday none-, but on Wednesday and Friday prayers: and once a month sermon. The chaplains officiate alternately a month each.

Salary,

Surgeon,

Salary,

£10 the corporation, and £10 Sir Walter Blacket. Mr. Bacon, now Mr. Maxfield. none: he makes a bill.

NEWCASTLE.

Northern Circuit. NEWCASTLE upon TYNE.

4 23

NEWCASTLE.

IN this Newgate, which is the gate at the upper end of the town, all the rooms except the condemned room are up Hairs, and airy: I always found them remarkably clean, strewed with sand &c. The corporation allow both debtors and felons firing and candles in plenty: and every prisoner has a chaff bed, two blankets, and a coverlet: debtors and felons are thus accommodated in few other prisons in England. They also allow brooms, mops, and all such necessaries. The sums generously allowed for those articles, amount to /40: 12: 8 per annum. This is one of the very few gaols that have what is called in London the rules. Part of two ffreets near the gaol is in the prison-liberty.

The debtors walk on the battery at the top of the gaol, which is j8 feet by 34. There is no court: but one might be made of the vacant ground that lies weft of the gaol, at little expence, as the town-wall is on one fide of it. The debtors beds are in closets: if on iron bedsteads and in the wards (as in some hospitals) it would be more salutary.—No prisoners here have fetters, unless they be riotous. For some years past, prisoners acquitted have been discharged in court; the corporation paid the gaoler’s fees if the prisoners were poor.—Gaol delivery once a year.

I was concerned to find that the humane gaoler Crafier was dead. But his successbr Mr. Harle seems equally worthy of the trust.

Dr. Rotheram, a physician in this town, visits the prisoners very assiduously without fee or reward. This is one of the few instances of the kind I have met with.

The act for preserving the health of prisoners was hung up, both on the debtors and felons fide. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

A palifaded wall is erected at a little distance from the felons window, to prevent files, &c. being conveyed to them.

An exafi Copy of the Rates and Pees to be from henceforth received by—the Gaoler or Keeper of his Majesty’s Gaol — called Newgate within this Town of NrwcafiU *son Tym—settled—at the General Quarter Sessions held at Guild-ha!! in Newcastle aforesaid, on the 15 of July hem 1730. And approved of at the Assize following by Francis Pag* and John Fertefcue A two of his said Majesty’s Judges of Assize According to an A& of Parliament—(n/iz.J

£ S. />.

Hreiy prisoner upon any civil action shall pay to the keeper at Ml tirft coming in -030 Every prisoner charged by process or procefies out of the court of record held before the mayor and sheriff of the said town of Newcastle upon Tyn* respectively shall pay to the said keeper upon his discharge from the said process or precedes only - 068

Every prisoner charged upon any execution or executions out of the court of confidence held within {he said town dull pay to the said keeper upon his discharge from the said execution or executions - - . - 020

Every prisoner on any criminal account or accounts whatsoever shall pay unto the said

keeper upon his discharge only - - - - . o 13 4.

Every

Rbmaeks.

NEWCASTLE upob TYNE. NorthernCircuit.

Ncv*

CASTAS.

Every periox ippeirii^ ipoi x recognizance at the affixes and afterwards tried apoa aay indi&mcot or iadiAmcats vkatfoercr and {ball be committed thereon {hall pay to the said keeper apoa his difehazge - . - . 068

Every prifbaer hall pay to the terakey of the {aid gaol or prifba apoa his discharge O 1 o

Confirmed by as

Hatty Rtafy Mayor. Richard Riditjy W* EfltfiOy from Rmdfiut,

JWe Ijaacfimt Recorder. Sttfbem Cfrejfty, \

We do approve of dw Table of Fee. Jelj if. 173©

Fkaiccis Pace John Fortescue a JUga.

There is also at NEWCASTLE,

A finall Gaol, the Timer in the Cleje, conhfting of three rooms over the gate-way. No court: no fester: no water. Allowance, twopence a day, and coals. Salary, £to. Fees, it.

1775, Jan. 8, Prisoners I. 1779, June 30, Prisoners 1.

1776, -----ij, - 1. 17*2, Mar. aj, - - 2.

The Old House of Correctiow, called the Tallow-House: two rooms, one for mtu, the other for iww, and a dungeon mv not used: no court: no water: allowance two pence a day, and coals. Salary, £15. Fees, it.

Criminals arc first committed to the Timer in the Clefe for a day or two, and if not discharged by a magistrate, are removed hither or to the other priibns.

*776, Jan. 1 j, Prisoner t. 1782, March 25, Prisoners 2.

Bridewell. A room for men; another for women. A new building is now added, consisting of fix rooms with chimneys. Three of them on the ground-floor, are 17 feet by 12, and arched with brick. In one room, the men, by a machine, beat hemp and flax. The stalls of the court not being secure, the prisoners have no access to it. Their allowance is two pence a day, and firing. The keeper is a sergeant at mice. He has no salary, but the profit of the prisoners work, whom I always found employed. The water is brought smt the prison.* Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

775. Jan. 8, Prisoners 1. 1779, June 30, Prisoners 7.

77*.-----»5> - - S- *7*2, Mar. aj, - - 5.

Where prisoners are always locked of, there ihoold be water lad In to each ward, as I have fra is foreign houles of conefiion.

NORTHUMBERLAND.

Northern Circuit. NOiTH UMBE RLAN D.

COUNTY GAOL at MORPETH.

GAOLER, John Kent.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 12: 6.

Felons, ‘ 1: 3:0.

Transports, only expences. Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on applying to justices.

Felons, two pence a day each, pud once a month. Garnish, £0:1:4.

umber. Debtors. Felons (tc. Debtor*. Felons Ac.

«774> Mar. 22, 8, 8. 1779. J^y «» IO, 6.

1775. Jan. 9, 6, 7* 1782, Mar. 25, *5. 4-

1776. — 16, 9. 11.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Nicholson.

Duty, Sunday, Tuesday, Friday.

Salary, £io, and £$ for condemned felons j lately raised to £30.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Leidman.

none: he makes a bill.

THE debtors have fix sizeable rooms which are out of repair, and a free Ward called the Middle-tower. Some commodious rooms lately built are occupied by the gaoler. Only one court, which is for debtors. Felons are always shut up in the tower. In the women’s room I saw (Jan. 1776) twbj who, the gaoler said, were call for transportation; one in Sep. 1773, the other in Nov. 1774: but at my visit in 1779, I found they had been humanely released at the assize.

Of the other two rooms, generally appropriated to men-felons, one is a day-room (14 feet 2 inches by 6 feet 9), the other an offensive dungeon, the window only 18 inches by 9. In the latter were three transports (1776) who, upon suspicion of intending an escape, were chained to the floor. They had not the king’s allowance of 2i. 6d.& week.

Gaol delivery once a year. Assize held at Newcastle, whither prisoners are conveyed j and men and women confined together seven or eight nights in a dirty damp dungeon down 6 Heps in the old castle, which having no roof, in a wet season the water is some inches deep. The felons are chained to rings in the wall.

31

4»S

MonrSTH*

Remarks.

The

436

MOI FIT!

CotTWTT

Gaol.

NORTHUMBERLAND. Northern Circuit.

The county for some years paid the gaoler’s fees for acquitted prisoners, if poor: and clothed such transports as were quite indigent.

The debtors coun should be allotted to felons: or two courts might be taken from

the gaoler’s spacious garden.

Clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up. The act for preserving the health of prisoners, painted bn a board, was in the debtors hall or chapel: no bath. The following table of fees is framed and glazed.

Table of Fees Sec. Settled sad allowed to be due to the Keeper of his Majesty’s Gaol at Mtrptti— by the Justices—at the Qoarter Sefions—held—at Hexham 1759.

Commitment Fees.

Every debtor £0: 1: 4 Every felon £0: x: 8.

Chamber-Rents.

To the room called the green room with one bed in it and if only one person will have it to kimfelf, to pay weekly -----

If two persons therein to pay each - - -

To the room called Barton* room having two beds, and the gaoler finding bedding and linen, each person to pay weekly ....

Bet if one will have n bed is to pay

To the little green room having one bed and if one person will have it to himself he is to pay weekly - -

If two therein only to pay each ....

The gaoler finding good and wholesome bedding

To the room called the fencing room with three beds and the gaoler finding wholesome linen each person to pay weekly ....

To the little room called Mrs. Carr’s room the gaoler finding beds and linen each person is to pay weekly ......

If tke prisoner finds the bedding .....

To a room called Mr. Joknfon's room; bong on the some floor, the gaoler finding bed and linen each person to pay ....

If they find their own bedding, only ....

There is a large room that prisoners pay nothing for, which holds a great many beds, called the middle tower .....

Every fikr upon his discharge to pay to the gaoler ...

To the tarn key ......

Every /dm on his discharge .....

To the twakey

£ s. D.

0 2 6

0 I 6

0 1 0

0 2 0

0 Z 6

0 1 6

0 1 0

0 1 0

0 O 6

0 1 0

0 O 6

0 0 0

0 10 z

0 I 0

0 18

0 2 0

John Orde Step. Watson IF*. JFard.

COUNTY

BERW.ICK upon TWEED.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MORPETH.

A work-room and two small bed-rooms for men on the ground-floor, only 7 feet high. That above for women is larger. The court not being secure, the prisoners are always locked up, and appear dirty and (ickly. Over the way is a long room (72 feet) which is a warehouse and work-lhop: and above it another woifc-thop. The keeper, a' clothier, note resides at a distance: he employs his prisoners j the men and boys from eight o’clock to four, at two shillings a week: women from eight to five, at one shilling and six-pence a week. He gives them also firing. No county allowance: no water: no fewer. His salary, £30: no fees. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.

*7751 Jan- 9> Prisoners 2. 1779, July i> Prisoners 3.

1776,---16, - 8. 1782, Mar. 2$, - 6.

BERWICK upon TWEED.

BERWICK* TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Licence,

John Richardjon, now John Hill.

O 6.

Debtors, Freemen,

Felons,

Debtors, not free, £0:2: 6. Beer, now none.

none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, Freemen, four pence a day, and coals.

Ditto, not free, |wo pence halfpenny a day.

Garnish, £0:1:4.

Number, Debtors. Felons tec.

1776, Jan. 17, 5. 2.

1779» July >. 2, 0. Imprefied Men 8.

1782, Mar. 26, 2. o.

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, none -, but on application to the magistrates.

This place, though a distinct jurisdiction, hi none of the circuits, 1$ inserted here, rather than at the end of the English and IVtleb counties, becanfe its situation gives it a natural connection with the iait-mentioned county, and it falls in here in the order of my joumics through the northern part of the kingdom.

31

4»7

Bains.

WELL.

Bsewick.

BERWICK.

+a*

CUMBERLAND. -

Northern Circuit.

Riimi.

CAtllltt.

lumi.

BERWICK.

THIS gaol is part of the grand town-hall, which was finished in 1754, and has a fine fteeplc: the only one in the town. The four rooms -or cells on the ground* floor are damp, and prisoners are not put into them, but over the hall, where there are two long rooms, or galleries, and seven other rooms, (izeable, but dirty. No court: the debtors are permitted to walk on the leads: no water: no fewer. Clauses against spirituous liquors, and the act for preserving the health of prisoners, not hung up. The gaoler told me he went to the gaol thrice a day, at nine, one, and eight.

CUMBERLAND.

COUNTY GAOL at CARLISLE.

GAOLER, Brathwaite Atiinjon, now themes Dixon.

Salary. £21.

Fees, Debtors, 7 ,

Transports, £t each to Whitehaven.

Licence, Beer. The tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, on applying to the justices some obtain a shilling a week.

some nine pence.

Felons, nine pence a week before conviction; a shilling after.

Garnish, £0:1:0.

Number, ran*. Nmte. iMun. Fdantc.

774. Mar. 23, 49, 4. 1779, May 10, 32, .21. French prifr*. 12.*

1776, Jan. 20, 29, 7. 1782, Sep. 1, 30, 9-

Sep. 19, 15, 1.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Ferish.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, Friday , first Sunday in the month, sermon. Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Loft.

Salary, £2: 2: o for attendance. Medicines paid for by bill.

THE court spacious, 85 yards by 36: it was common to all prisoners; but now

a part is appropriated to the felons, and separated by iron palisades. In the court is a chapel, built, as appears by the date, in 1734. Five rooms for master’s-fide

See fop 1(8.

debtors:

Northern Circuit.

CUMBERLAND.

4»9

debtors: and as many on the common-fide. Four of these are 23 feet by 18^. They have windows now opening into the court, as well as the street. Where there arc so many rooms, not to separate the men and women is certainly inexcusable.

The wards for felons are two rooms down a step or two; dark and dirty. One of them, the day-room, had a window to the street j through which spirituous liquors and tools For mischief might be eaflly conveyed: but it is now bricked up. The night-room is only 11 feet by 9: at one of my visits, men and women were lodged together in it. Two rooms over the felons wards, which have been used as tap-rooms, seem to be intended for the women only, but in one of these I also found three men and four women lodged together. In the court, near the pump, there is the too common nuisance of a dunghill, which seems to have been accumulating for a year or two. Transports had not the king's allowance of is. 6d. a week. No infirmary: no bath. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. Prison not white-washed for three years. Gaol delivery once a year. Few gaols have io many convenient rooms for common-fide debtors. It is the more remarkable here, because there is no table signed by the magistrates to particularize the free wards. Some gaolers avail themselves of such a circumstance, and demand rent for rooms which were undoubtedly designed for common-fide prisoners.

The gaol-fever, which some years ago carried off many of the prisoners, did not deter Mr. Farish from visiting the sick every day.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COCKERMOUTH.

Is behind the keeper’s house, and part of it his freehold. A room on the ground-floor, the strong room. Up stairs another room; and a closet called the lunatic room. All out of repair, and insecure: and so is the court, which I suppose is the reason that many for small offences are sent to the county gaol: this being the only county bridewell. No allowance: no straw. Keeper’s salary or rent, £io: no fees.

1776, Sep. 18, 1779, May 10, No prisoners.

CARLISLE CITY GAOL,

Over the Scotch-gate. It was only one ruinous room about twenty feet square 5 but it has been repaired lately and made more convenient. The window feet by i-J. No allowance, but a very small quantity of peat taken as a toll upon that commodity, and water brought twice a day.

I was told that many a poor traveller from the north, who by some calamity had contracted an unavoidable debt of forty shillings, has been confined at a distance from his friends in this prison, where there is no provision, nor any means of procuring it.

»776>

Cauisu

CotlNTT

Gaol.

43°

WESTMORLAND.

NonTRCktr Cncvrr.

Chihli. 1776, Jan. 30, Debtors 3. 1779, May 10, Debtors 3, two Men, oneWoman.

—— Sep. 19, - - i. 1783, Sep. 1, - - o.

WHITEHAVEN Town Gaol, Is part of the work-house. Two rooms up stairs; and a dungeon in which they used to confine transports brought hither to be shipped. All dirty and offensive.

1779, Sep. t8. No prisoners.

WESTMORLAND. COUNTY GAOL at APPLEBY.

Amur. GAOLER, Benjamin JBmfej.

Salary, £to. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors,) a

Felons, S£° ‘ *'

Transports, a shilling a mile each to Whitehaven.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, four pence a day each.

Garnish, £0:1:0.

Number, Defats* Felons Arc. Debtors. Felons Ac.

1774, Mar. 24, 7> 4- 1779, May 9, 8, 2.

1776, Jan. 33, 3> 0. 1783, Sep. 2, 8, O.

Sep. '9. 3» 3-

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, none.

Rev*,is. THIS gaol was built by the county. The earl of Thanet is hereditary sheriff, and pays the gaoler his salary. Happily for the prisoners in a gaol so circumstanced, the present gaoler is a man of temper and humanity.

At page 21, I complained of this prison being within reach of floods; but in January 1776, there was a new building on the highest part of the yard. It consists of four vaulted wards for felons, 144 feet by 13; a window in each, but no chimney: and over them three good rooms with chimneys, for debtors.

Gaol

Northern Circuit. WESTMORLAND.

Gaol delivery once a year.—No table of fees. Neither the-act for preserving the health of prisoners, nor daufes against spirituous liquors, at my last visit, were hung up.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

APPLEBY. Built, as appears by the date, 1639- Two rooms it feet by 8*: no chimney: each has a window (only 18 inches by 12) into a liable: subject to floods.—No allowance. Keeper’s salary £8: no fees.

1776, Jan. 22, Prisoners o. 1779, May 9, Prisoners o.

----- Sep. 19, - o. 1782, Sep. 2. . - - t. ,

KENDAL.. Only one room for men and women, 18 feet by 13, with one window about 2 feet square: no chimney: no court: no water: no fewer. The keeper has a garden: salary, £6: 10: o, and a little cloje which he lets for twenty shillings a year. No fees.—The town fomecimes commits prisoners hither, and allows them six-pence a day j the county, four pence.

1776, Jan. 23, Prisoners 3, two Men, one Woman.

--- Sep. 18, - - o. Deserter 1.

1779, May 11, o.

1782, Sep. 3, - - I.

KENDAL TOWN GAOL.

Only two vaulted dungeons under the chapel, called black biles: 15 steps under ground (12 feet by 11, and 7 {. high). In one of them was a bedstead with straw on it. No court: no water. Allowance, six-pence a day. The two town sergeants keep the prison by turns; a week each.*

1776, Jan. 23, 1779, May ii, and 1782, Sep. 3, No prisoners.

I here take the liberty to extol the ceconomy, Snduftry and cleanliness of the Kendal work-house. It makes Tome amends for the inconvenience of the town gaol, which occasions the fending town-prisoners to the county bridewell as above.

ArrLEBV-

BaiDE-

wems.

LANCASHIRE.

LANCASHIRE.

Norths* Circuit.

4J»

COUNTY GAOL, LANCASTER CASTLE.

Lakcas-

TEA.

GAOLER, John Dane, now Jtbu Higgis.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 8: o.

Felons, o: 13:4.

Transports, £ J each. (Set Remarks.) Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, ? , ,

p I j one shilling each on Saturday morning.

Garaiih, Debtors, £0:7:2.

Felons, 0:2:6.

Number, Drteers. Idoutc. Dvbcan. Fdoufcc.

774. Mar. 25, 74, 13. 1779, May 11, 72, 11. Impressed 17.

1775>Noy.2o, 48, 17. 1782, Sep. 3, $7, 17.

776, Sep. 17, 32, 19.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Sfictr, now Rev. Mr. Wittfm.

Duty, Sunday twice; Wednesday and Friday once.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON,

Salary,

Mr. Dixon, now Mr. Wright. now £10: 10: o.

Rixaees. THE castle-yard is spacious, and is supplied with water. Part ofit is an enclosed bowling-green. Master’s-Gde debtors have many apartments. One of them which they call the crocn, is said to have been uied as such in the time of John of Gantt duke of Lancojttr; the diameter, 24 feet; the height, that of an ordinary room. Debtors are allowed to walk and work (spin, knit, 8cc.) in the crown and flure halls. The latter is used as a chapel.*

One of the rooms for debtors (60 feet by 27) is a free ward, and called the Quakers room , because, it is said, when those people were so cruelly persecuted in the last century, vast numbers of them were confined in it.

Petty offenders are sometimes sent hither, because the bridewells are distant. There is a large room for them near the gate; and they are kept separate from felons.

Men and women felons have their day-rooms apart, at the upper end of the court. Women deep in their day-room: but the court being common, the men associate

Over the judge's bench in the shire-hall is this text; " Lit judgment not down at ivateri, and

rtgbttsafmfs aj mu^hfy Area*."

with

Northern Circuit.

LANCASHIRE.

433

with them.—Men hare for their night-rooms two vaulted cells. One of diem, the low dungeon, is io steps under ground,* 21 feet by 9, extremely dose, dark, and unwholefotne; very hot even in winter. Their other cell, the bigb dungeon (20 feet 2 inches by 11 feet 2), is dole and offensive, though not under ground; and has an iron-latticed door.

In one of these dungeons, there were three felons Pick: the recorder, Mr. Fenton> gave immediate orders for their relief by better nourishment. See. and they loon recovered. No infirmary: no bath. Transpom had not the king’s allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. When prisoners are convicted at Preston or Manchester, and from thence brought hither, the gaoler has a shilling a mile conduct-money for each.

If the large (table which is not much used, and the great room under the shire-hall (in which there was only one poor lunatic; who had been there many years, and is since dead) were converted into night-rooms for felons, one small room for each; the court divided, and an infirmary were built, this would be a good gaol. From Mr. Fegton's humanity, and the regard that is justly paid hint, I cannot but hope for some of these improvements.

These remarks were made in 1776: at my visit in 1779, I had the pleasure to find fix cells made in the upper (table, 10 feet by 6 feet 8 inches, each having an aperture about 2 feet by ii; and two good rooms fitted up for an infirmary in the dungeon tower. One of the fix cells is appropriated to drunken and riotous debtors, over which this inl'cription is painted on a board, “ This room is for unruly misbehaved debtors, to be confined in, until they promise to behave well.”

At my last visit there were three new cells (10 feet by 6(), two doors in each, one of which was iron-latticed. Here was also a Jeparate clojet for women, which is generally wanted in gaols.—This gaol is regularly white-wa(hed, and kept very dean. The act for preserving the health of prisoners, and the clauses against spirituous liquors, hung up very conspicuously.—The gaoler lives distant.

The chaplain’s salary, £50, is from the county; and from the dutchy£4.

I will give a copy of the table of fees, though it is not authentick;—a lift of donations,—and an order for attending divine service, which are hung up in one of the court rooms.—Much good, I hope, may be expected from the exertions now making by the gentlemen of this county, for the further improvement of their prisons.

Fees taken by the Gaoler of Lonaifitr Cattle. (vix) ,.i

1: s. d.

For every debtor's discharge when by a superfedeat - - - -080

On a common discharge 8r. and 2 s. k 6d. for the iheriff's certificate - o 10 6

When a debtor is fnrrendered in discharge of his bail . - >024

The gaoler's wine cellar is down so steps, and has evidently been nfed for the confinement of prisoners. The different purpose to which it is now applied, is the only instance I know of the hentjit of taps in gaols.

j K When

Lahcai* Ten Castle.

LANCASHIRE.

Northern Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL, LANCASTER CASTLE.

Liscis- GAOLER, John Dane, now John Biggin.

Tlr- Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 8: o.

Felons, 0:13:4.

Transports, £ 5 each. (See Remarks.)

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, ? One frilling each on Saturday morning.

Felons, S '

Garnish, Debtors, £0:7:2.

Felons, 0;: a: 6.

Number, - d*kts. Felons it- Debtors, Felons 1-c.

1774, Mar. 25, 74, 13- 1779, May 11, 72, 11. Impressedi7.

1/7S, Nov. 20, 48, 17- 1782, Sep. 3, J7, >7-

1776, Sep. 17, 32, *9-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Spiter, now Rev. Mr. Watjm.

Duty, Sunday twice 5 Wednesday and Friday once.

Salary, £jc.

SURGEON, Mr. Dixon, now Mr. Wrigbt.

Salary, now £10: 10: 0.

Reuaues. THE cattle-yard is spacious, and is supplied with water. Part of it is an enclosed bowling-green. Master’s-fide debtors have many apartments. One of them which they call the oven, is said to have been used as such in the time of Join of Gaunt duke of Lar.cashr: the diameter, 24 feet; the height, that of an ordinary room. Debtors are allowed to walk and work (spin, knit, &c.) in the crown and Cure halls. The latter is used as a chapel.*

One of the rooms for debtors (60 feet by 27) is a free ward, and called the Quakers room; because, it is said, when those people were so cruelly persecuted in the last century, vast numbers of them were confined in it.

Petty offenders are sometimes sent hither, because the bridewells are dittant. There is a large room for them near the gate; and they are kept separate from felons.

Men and women felons have their day-rooms apart, at the upper end of the court. Women deep in their day-room: but the court being common, the men associate

Over the judge’s bench in the Siire-hall is this text; 11 judgment run down at nvateri, and

U SKSghij Greers.'*

with

Northern Circuit.

LANCASHIRE.

with them.—Men have for their night-rooms two vaulted cells. One of them, the low dungeon, is io steps under ground,* 21 feet by 9, extremely dole, dark, and unwholesome; very hot even in winter. Their other cell, the high dungeon (20 feet 2 inches by 11 feet 2), is close and offensive, though not under ground; and has an iron-latticed door.

In one of these dungeons, there were three felons lick: the recorder, Mr. Fenton, gave immediate orders for their relief by better nourishment, &c. and they soon recovered. No infirmary: no bath. Transports had not the king’s allowance of is, 6d. a week. When prisoners are convicted at Preston or Manchester, and from thence brought hither, the gaoler has a Hulling a mile condufl-money for each.

If the large liable which is not much used, and the great room under the shire-hall (in which there was only one poor lunatic; who had been there many years, and is fincedead) were converted into night-rooms for felons, one small room for each; the court divided, and an infirmary were built, this would be a good gaol. From Mr. Fenton’s humanity, and the regard that is justly paid him, I cannot but hope for some of these improvements.

These remarks were made in 1776: at my visit in 1779, I had the pleasure to find fix cells made in the upper liable, 10 feet by 6 feet 8 inches, each having an aperture about 2 feet by ii; and two good rooms fitted up for an infirmary in the dungeon tower. One of the fix cells is appropriated to drunken and riotous debtors, over which this inscription is painted on a board, “This room is for unruly misbehaved debtors, to be confined in, until they promise to behave well.”

At my lait visit there were three new cells (10 feet by 6(), two doors in each, one of which was iron-latticed. Here was also a separate closet for women, which is generally wanted in gaols.—This gaol is regularly white-washed, and kept very clean. The act for preserving the health of prisoners, and the clauses against spirituous liquors, hung up very conspicuously.—The gaoler lives distant.

The chaplain’s salary, £50, is from the county; and from the dutchy £4.

I will give a copy of the table of fees, though it is not authentick;—a lift of donations,—and an order for attending divine service, which are hung up in one of the court rooms.—Much good, I hope, may be expected from the exertions now making by the gentlemen of this county, for the further improvement of their prisons.

Fees taken by the Gaoler of Lamafitr Cattle, (viz)

£ S. D.

For every debtor's discharge when by a fufirfedeat - - . -080

On a common discharge 8r. and 7.1, Sc 6d. for the sheriff’s certificate - - 0 10 6

When a debtor is surrendered in discharge of his bait - - - 024

The gaoler’s wine cellar is down 20 steps, and has evidently been used for the confinement of prisoners. The different purpose to which it is now applied, is the only instance I know of the linifit of taps in gaols.

3 K When

453

Lahcas- TEA

Castle,

434

L A N C A S H I R E.

'Northern Circuit,

LaSCaS-

TE1

Castle.

WBea a debtor is charged with a declaration is. & 4d. with the rale to take the prisoner

to the bar and is. & 4i. with the remandato ... . . 048

When a debtor takes the benefit of die insolventafr i/. and is. Sc 4^. to bring the prisoner to the bar by rale, and is. Sc+d. ftr'the sheriff’s certificate Fees for all crown prisoners -

Lately altered to - - .

John Dane Gaoler.

At my visit in 1782, the two laf. articles and the gaoler's name were erased, and there is now inserted “ Crown prisoners to pay no fees. ” John Higgin, Gaoler.

5

18

13

Chaextt Legacies to the Debtor Prisoners in Lancajitr Castle 1770,

From Mt3. Henrietta Rigbfs executors to twelve of the most necessitous and well behaved . prisoners fire shillings each paid by Doctor Fatten and the mayor of Lancaster about the first day of March'every year ....

From Mrs. Langjtn paid by Ltrscrezu Rawjlborn Esq. each assize -From Sir Thomas Gtrrardof Gartjkcsed pud by Mr. Sterile, doe about the first of August Paid under a decree of the court of chancery of this county out of an estate in Slcrmijdale called Send late belonging to Peter Latham deceased; distributed at every August - a£ze, by the traftees of die laid Peter Latham or their order, paid by Mr. Ratclije ' of Ormfari attorney at law ..

By the will of William Edmanijen of Onthweitt, one pound fifteen shillings yearly, or half the rent of land in Satjertb purchased by the money left for such purpose by the said will, pad by the treasurer of the county in bread - -

From Mrs. Ahigeal Rights executors paid by Doctor Fenton and the mayor of Lancajitr every St. Tbmas\ day . -

[Qry. Jcbfm's legacy.] (Ssbethe Ufi.)

£. S. D,

At the general quarter feifiohs of the peace held at Lancaster in and for the said county palatine of Laneafer, foe 15th day of joly in the seventeenfo year of king Ging* foe third’s reign; whereas, it sppensto-foiscoonon foe representation of foe keeper of foe gaol or foe cattle of Lancaster, that Several prisoners in his enstody, bring members of foe Church of England and having no lawful excafe, make a ccsmon practice of absenting themselves from divine service performed in foe laid gaol, and mifoeharing themselves during service. It is therefore ordered by this court, that if any prisoner or prisoners confined in the £dd cattle (except Roman Catholics and Quakers) and hiving of lawful . ercafe, fnsfl abfont him her or themselves, from attending divine service within the said cattle, or shall in any-way miibchave, such prisoner or prisoners (half immediately be deprived of foe county allowance sntii further orders to foe contrary. And it is farther ordered, that the treasurer of the said county stock, {ball immediately upon receiving a complaint from foe said keeper against any prisoner or prisoners to strike his her or their name or names out of his books, and to forbear to pay inch prisoner or prisoners any more money until further order.

Kenyoh.

N. B. -Whereas many of foe debtors of late- have absented themselves from attending divine service, ddiis thcicfai to give them notice, that for the future the above rule of court will be strictly put in execution.

COUNTY

Northern Circuit.-

435

LANCASHIRE.

COUNTY BRIDEWEL L S, ,

PRESTON. This prifori, a little distant from the town, was a friary. On the ground-floor is a passage, in which are eleven offensive closets, called boxes (6 { feet by 6), to sleep in; and another room, the dungeon. Over these are a large workroom for men, and a less for women. The prison out of repair: but at my visit in 1779, the work-rooms were clean, and the prisoners were fpjnning worsted. A court in front {of which the prisoners have no use) and a liable 1 and a spacious garden backwards for the keeper. No bath.

These prisoners have the other moiety of William Edmundfm's legacy mentioned in the lift at Lancaster castle. The keeper receives it for them. No water accessible to prisoners: no allowance. Keeper’s salary, £60: but the keeper was obliged'to pay £50 to his predecessor, who died in 1780; now his salary is augmented to £80 in lieu of the tap. . Fees, from those tried at sessions, for. 6d. from others, 7s. no table. To this prison in 17/78, there were committed 112 prisoners, viz. for felony 14, bastardy 15, misdemeanors 46, vagrants . 15, deserters 18, debtors 4. In 1779, there were committed 133 i—in 1780, 985—in 1781, iij;—in 1782, to Sep: 9, 88.*

1774, Mar. 26, Prisoners 8. 1779, May 12, Prisoners 17. Impressed 5,

1775, Nov-18, - - 19. 1782, Sep. .3, - - 19.

I776j-Sep. 16, - 11.

MANCHESTER. Rebuilt-as per date, in the year 1774.' Separate courts-and apartments for men and women. Two rooms for an infirmary (14 feet by ii' feet 8 inches). The men. have work-rooms, over, which are chambers. Their four night-rooms or cells in apaflage 45 feetby 15, are dofej 11 feet by 8; Ti'steps: below the court; but not properly under ground; 'being tori- the declivity of

a hill.- Women have three rooms on the ground-floor,’ and three chambers: here is a dungeon, down 9 Heps, 14 feet by 13; an incoriveriierit'bath, no water in it. The iron-grate door into each court has a lock and fastenings' of a contrivance . Angularly curious. No allowance. Keeper’s salary was raised from £25 to £60, in lieu of fees, and is now raised to £80 in lieu of the tap.

The act for preserving the health of prisoners, and theclaufes against spirituous liquors, hung up.' The keeper is a chandler, and employs some of the prisoners in ‘ spinning candle-wick at three-hallperice a pound.1 In the front of the prison is

In these numbers are not included the arpratim prisoners, -who' are confined here,- til ere brink now no town-gaol. . t .-' i

3K2 " aftone

Bride-

wells.

+36

Bniss-

nu.

LANCASHIRE. Northern'Circuit.

a stone with an aperture into a box, having this inscripdonSick, and in pri/on, and js vified me net.” Matt. xxv. 43.

1774, Nov. 5, Prisoners 21. 1779, May 12, Prisoners it. Imprefted 6.

*775>— i6> - - 6. 1782, Nov. 22, - - 14.*

1776, Sep. 15, - - 12.

LANCASTER Town Gaol. A room just finished at the new town-hall, 15! feet by 114, in which there is a window and fire-place.

1782, Sep. 3, No prisoners.

LIVERPOOL! BOROUGH GAOL.

Seven close dungeons in a passage 11 feet wide, 10 steps under ground; each 64. feet by 5 feet 9 inches, and 6 feet high. Apertures in the doors 11 inches by 6. Three prisoners are commonly locked up in each of them at night. There is another dungeon, larger, but not secure. Only one day-room for criminals of both sexes. No infirmary. The keeper told me.inNovember 177 j, that after I was there last year and fiud his prisoners were in danger of the gaol-fever, twenty-eight of them had been ill of it at one time. What led me to think so was, the offensiveness of the dungeons, and the number of prisoners. The prison is surrounded with other buildings, and cannot be made healthy and convenient. £ Allowance in common on Sunday, bread 41. beef and broth about 6 s. Firing from October to May. Gaoler, Rejendale Alin, sergeant at mace, paid the widow of the late gaoler, £20 a year; and put in a deputy who paid him £65 a year. Fees, debtors, felons &c. 4a. 6d. notable. Chaplain, duty,—Tuesday and Friday: salary, £12 :12: o.

Felons are generally sent to Lancaster castle: the prisoners kept here are for the most.part debtors. The acte for preferring the health of prisoners, and the daufes against spirituous liquors, are both hung up.

At my rifits in 1779 and 1782, this gaol was much cleaner than at my former rifits: the court paved: the act for preferring the health of prisoners hung up; but the unhealthy dungeons still-in use. The late surgeon, Mr. Shertcltjfe, whose salary was £10 (which is now pud to the difpenjarj), informed me, that many more had the gaol-fever in 1775, than I mentioned in my publication. The gaoler now is fbmnt Ljcn: his salary, £10.

The debtors about Christmas receive £10, left by a lady. No memorial in the gaol.

'* By tie Calendar at tie quarter feSjons at Mswilxjler, the zztl of January, 17S4; there were fflyanz perioas ia caflody.

t The Gentlemen of this Corporation will pleaie to accept my grateful acknowledgments for the honour drwrrae in prefacing me with the freedom of the town.

11 hare the pieafore of Being informed (1784) by the present worthy chief magistrate of this town, tS«r the corporation have tefolved upon building a new gaol.

*774j

Northern Circuit. LANCASHIRE.

1774, Nov. 7, Prisoners 58.

1775, — 13, - - 60.

1779, — 30, - - 2S- Impressed 2. Deserters 2.

178s, Sep. 5, Debtors 19. Felons&c. 14. - - i.

LIVERPOOL Bridewell. This prison was built in 1776, on an eminence Bride-adjoining the work-house,* near the town. The men and women have separate rooms, w£lLS-courts, &c. The women have fix rooms below, and the fame number above: the men have four rooms below, and four above. These are 12 feet by 10, and 8 feet 9 inches high; are furnished with bedsteads, blankets and coverlets; but are too close, having no window, only an aperture in the door about 9 inches square, and another near the cieling. They have a work-room, so feet by 16 feet 9 inches. Near this room in the men’s court is a pump, to which the women are tied every week and receive discipline. In this court is also a bath, 'with a new and singular contrivance. At one end of it was a standard for a long pole, at the extremity of which ,

was fattened a chair. In this all the females (not the males) at their entrance, after a few questions, were placed, with a flannel Ihift on, and underwent a thorough ducking, thrice repeated—an use of a bath, which I dare say the legislature never thought of, when in their late act they ordered baths with a view to cleanliness and' preserving the health of prisoners; not for the exercise of a wanton and dangerous kind of severity. But I was glad to find this use of the bath has been discontinued since my visit in 1779. The severe weekly discipline of the women in the men’s court is Hill continued.—This prison is kept remarkably clean by the matron. All the prisoners were employed in picking oakum. The clauses against spirituo.us liquors are hung up. Allowance, two-pennyworth of bread a day. Keeper’s salary, £30.

Matron, fio. Turnkey, 6 s. a week, an apartment and firing.

1779, Nov. 30, Prisoners 8.

1782, Sep. $, - - 12.

WARRINGTON Town Bridewell. Two rooms in the work-house yard; one about 9 feet square, with bedstead and draw; the other about 9 feet by 5: no windows. Allowance for diet, the fame as the poor, who, by their appearance, seem to have a humane attention paid to them. The constables of the town are keepers.

1776, March 20, 1779,. Dec. 30, and 1784, February 24, No prisoners.

437

Liverpool.

This poor-house is a large new building; and the management of it Ihews a humane attention which does honour to the gentlemen concerned.

CHESHIRE.

43*

CHESHIRE.

Chester Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL, CHESTER CASTLE.

Chests*. GAOLER,

Faitbfull Thoaas , he held it of the late constable George Noffittr the king’s patentee, to whom he then paid £40 a year.

Salary, £18: j: o from the exchequer. (See Remarks).

Transports,£5 each, and £1 forexpences. licence. Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 7 gj pQUn(js of bread a week each. Felons, J

Garnish, Debtors, £0:3:6.

Number, Debtors. Fdoasfe. Debtors. Felons &c.

1774, Mar. 29, 22, 24. 1776, Sep. 14, 7. 12.

June 24, 23. 12. 1779, Aug. 27, 19. 4-

I77J, Feb. .1, 9> IS- 1782, May 24, 22, 5. Deserteri

Nov. 25, 1*. 6. 1783. Ny '45» 33> IS-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Befael, now Rev. Mr. Willan.

Doty, Sunday.

Salary, £30.

A debtor officiates as clerk, for which the county allows £2 a year.

SURGEON, Mr. Williamson.

Salary, none: he.makes a bill.

Rehikes. THIS castle is the property of the King. The first room is a hall: there are two fbdreafes leading up from it to four rooms for master’s-fide debtors. Down 18 fieps is a fin all court, which was common to debtors and felons. It is lately divided, but die high close pales which separate the -two courts, now lb very (mail, deprive both debtors -and felons of die benefit of fresh air, and the keeper has no view of the felons court or day-room, in which' men and women are together: the debtors, in the fefes kitchen (improperly called their free ward, as they pay one shilling a week each); the felons, in their day-room, the king's kitchen. Both these are 6 Heps below the court: each of them about 35 feet by 22. Near the former is the condemned room. Under the king’s kitchen is the kings cellar} quite useless. Under the pope's kitchen is a dark passage 24 feet by 9: the defeent to it, is by 21 Heps from the court. No window: not a breath of fresh air: only two.apertures (lately.made) with grates in die cieling into the pope’s kitchen above. On one fide of it are fix

cells

Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE.

cells (Jlalts) each about yi feet by 3, with a barrack-bedstead, and an aperture over the door about 8 inches by 4. In each of these are locked up at night, sometimes three or four felons. They pitch these dungeons two or three times a year: wh.n I was in one of them, I ordered the door to be Ihut; and my lituation brought to mind what I had heard of the Hack bole at Calcutta.

The felons day-room is not secure. They escaped in 1775, by breaking through the flight floor into the king’s cellar below j and through the decayed walls of that they made their way down the hill. The keeper, who is careful and humane, was not blameable.

Transports had not the king’s allowance of is. 6d. a week. Of the debtors whom I saw in 1776, five were imprisoned by exchequer writs? and five also in 1782. The costs of some were equal to the debts.

The county has lately built two good rooms for the gaoler, and fitted up one room for a chapel. But there is no infirmary or bath, which are peculiarly necessary in so close a prison. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hungup.

The present constable is Mr. Ferdinandb Gillio a surgeon in London. He obliges the gaoler to pay rent £30 a year, and takes himself the salary of £18: 5: o,. the gaoler paying the tax of £2: 13: 0 thereon. I need hardly mention the impropriety of one receiving the salary, and another doing the duty.*

A TABLE OF FEES.

To-be taken by the Constable of the Castle—as the County Gaol—settled—in the—Quarter Sessions— at Nampfimcb—15 th July 1729 and afterwards confirmed—by his Majesty’s Chief Justice of Chtfttr and Judge of Affize—and Justices of the Peace—in purfoance of a late AA—for the Relief of Debtors &c.

£ S. D.

Commitment fee, for every prisoner - . . . -o $z

Chamber rent, prisoner finding his own bedding per week o 1 o

Beddingper week if found by the constable - . . O* I o

" There is a Angularity in the manner of the treatment of . the prisoners who are released by “ capital punishment out of their dreadful cells, which merits mention.- They are delivered by the “ constable or his deputy, at a Hone called Glover’s-Jloite, about ninety yards distant from the outward “ gate, into the hands of the sheriffs of the city; who receive them at that stone, which is the extreme “ limit of the castle precinAs, and from thence convey them to the place of execution, which they also have the charge of.”

Mr. Pamant’i Tair inWeUi, p. 163.

I have in three of my visits feeo the place of confinement for deserters in this castle, who are not under the care of the gaoler, but of the invalids of the garrison. It is a bad unhealthy cell; often productive of the gaol-fever; a room should be appropriated to the sick, for the surgeon told me he could not attend them there. An offices at Werafltr informed me, that having sent a serjeant and two men for two deserters lodged here, three of them died a few days after they came to their quarters, and he had them buried privately, without military honours, to the surprise of the soldiers, whoiknew not the reason.

- 439

Chester

Castle.

Discharging

MO

CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

CatsTtt Difeharging fee .....

Cmu. To the turnkey cm difckarge '

For a copy of every commitment -

For attendance into conn with every prisoner brought there by role of court For the ftose parlour, bed and furniture if required per week For every felon committed per week

X $ D. o' t o 006 o t o 010 050 006

Signed by eight Justices.

Confirmed by J. Wxlies Sep. 13. 1729.

We whole nines axe subscribed his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace do approve the above Table of Fees and the additional Fee of £x pence per week. Witness oar hands April 7. 1730.

Signed by five Justices.*

A List—of all Gilts Legacies &c. upon the best Examination—given for the Benefit—of poor Pxifbners—within—the Castle of Chtjltr

Mr. JdmNwvfj citiarn and merchaat-taylor of Leader—by his will—ioth October 1615.left—fix killings and eight pence to be difiribnted on Candlemas yearly for ever by the mayor &c.—to the poor prisoners—in money or bread.

Tmlatim Rnsgfem—of Ciejhr alderman—by his will 16th Jane 1603 left—thirteen {billings and four pence to be difiribnted at Michaelmas and Lady-day yearly for ever by the mayor—to the prisoners in the cafile—by equal portions, or twenty days after.

The above written Table of Fees—and lift—of Gifts—are true Copies—

*fbo Tagg Cl. Pacis.

Rules to be observed within the Gaol of the Castle of Cheficr.

I ft. All prisoners to behave—respectfnlly to keeper—whoever—ftrike or aflanlt any—to be punifiied by a jafHce at difoerion.

2. No carfing or swearisg—No gaming in the hall nor in private.

3. Prisoners to retire to their xespective rooms—from Lady-day to Michaelmas at nine—from

Mirbiflmas to Lady-day at right—to be let ont in the morning from Lady-day to Michaelmas at fix and from Micharfmavto Lady-day at eight.

4. Friends or iriarions-^tD bring necessaries,—bring—searched for inftroaents if required—Not to

stay long—without leave, except in—fickneft—nor after the hours of locking up-

5. Felons &c.—to be in the lower coart—except leave &c;

6. Whereas it is nfnal for the prifeners to go into the castle-yard an hoar morning and afternoon for

air except in rime of fefioas &c.—None to go to the castle-gate or over the pavement leading Ac.—nor ont of the limits—nor intermix with the soldiers on guard.

7. No prisoner to remove—the keeper’s beds Ac.—nor His own bed—*without gaoler’s consent.

lie OMe hsvieg hag agriaft a dnp waS, the joflices mines are not legible.

8. Prisoners

Chester Circuit.

CHESHIRE.

441

S. Prisoners may bring their own beds, and take them away. If they chsofe the keeper’s bed—pay a shilling at the end of every week. Upon' non-payment the gaoler may take the bed, and pnt the prisoner to lie in the pope’s kitchen or any other free ward.

9. The public hall to be swept and cleaned by the prisoners daily.

.At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held at Nemftiakb—14th July—4th Grnrgt II. 1730

We whole names are subscribed Justices of the Peace assembled in open SeiEons aforesaid do approve

of the said Rules to be observed in the Gaol of the said'Callle of Chifitr*

Cha Dukinftld F Pcole . 1 Cmlmmitlty

Three more not legible.

We do approve of these rules

J Whies

W Jessop.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MIDDLEWICH.

This prison has been improved by the addition.of a work-rooms a little room at the end of it, which they call a Jhcf , and three chambers over them. At.one fide of the work-room is a strong brick bench against the walls long enough for several to fit on: arid fronting the fire-place is another brick feat, almost a semicircle. Two of the four lower rooms have now a window in each: the other have orily three perforations in the doors of about two inches diameter. I found at my visit in 1776 all the prisoners, but two, employed in picking oakum; the other two; were shoe-makers, working at their own trade: but at my two last visits all were withotit'-eriiploy-ment. The court is somewhat enlarge^ from the keeper’s garden, and flagged with broad stones, which are very convenient, ntot only for cleanliness &c. but-particularly fordrying the oakum. The partition between this and the garden, is' a brick wall 6 feet high about one third of the height, and the rest strong palisades with tenterhooks. This is a. judicious contrivance for 'keeping the court and house’ airy and healthy: but I lince' learn this-court has-been' contraSed by fomenriw buildings: Allowance to each, fist pounds of household bread a week:' feales arid weights are provided by the county. Clauses against Spirituous liquors not hungup: Keeper's salary, £$o. No fees. A chaplairi lately appointed, Rev. Mr. Leigh: falaiy, £20: duty, three times a week. Surgeon, Mr ^Graves: he makes a bill.* "'

' 1774» Nov. 8, Prisoners 3. 1779, Aug. 38,'Prisoners y.

1776, Sep. 14, - - 9. 1782, NoV. 23, /

Since my lad visit, the gatl-fiver has been in this prison; and in the Chifitr papers, a testimony to the care, attention, and success of Mr. Gravtt has been publishedr by order of the justices. The prison was crowded, several having been lent from Gfe/frr assizes. However, only three prisoners and achilddied.:

jL CHESTER

Chester

Castle.

Bride-

well.

44-

CHESHIRE.

Chester Circuit.

Ch;st».

Remarks.

CHESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL

GAOLER, Samuel Wotermods, now Thomas Woodworth.

Salary, £to.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 8:8.

Felons, 0:6:6.

Transpotts, -' 6 :10: o each.

Licence, Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a pennyworth of bread a day. (Utile more than half a pound in Feb. 1775: ten ounees in Msg 1782.)

Gamilh, £0:3:6.

Number, Debtor. Idoute, Debtors.' Fdoos&c.

1774, Mar. 29, 8, 10. 1776, Sep. 14, 1,

*77St Feb- h 6, 2. 1779> Aug.27, 7,

Nov. 2J, 8, 2. 1782, May 24, j.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Dole, now Rev. Mr. Price. (See Remarks.}

Duty, Tuesday and Thursday,.

Salary, £10.

SURGEON, (See Remarks.)

Salary, £j.

THIS gaol, called the North-gate prifeu, rebuilt in 1722, has-many convenient apartments for debtors. The felons day-room is spacious: but to their dungeon, or night-room (which is 14 feet by 8) die defeent is now by 18 Heps: for at my visit in 1779, I found that the room was very injudiciously, (not to say cruelly) fonk feme feet.* In it is a barrack-bcdstead. No light,: nor any communication with the external air, but by two leaden pipes of about an inch: diameter laid in from die gate-way. Thcprisoners in March 1774, complained ofeveeffive heat. The woraen-felocs lie up fours, in a room called the upper dungeon, which has no window, only an aperture in the door (14 inches by 7) into one of the debtors rooms. No bedding or draw. The court, is common to debtors and felonsbut the former have the privilege of walking in the keeper’s garden.

Mr. Price is- chaplain to the blue-coat school; and officiates in- little St. John's chipel belonging to the school. A navigation parts that from the prison-yard 3 and

There fceas to have beta ihefiaienegte& hoe of a claofeia a late aft, that Is noted in fags 195;

*iich womM Icarcely have happened, lud the ad been huDg up a, therein diie&ed.

a foot-

Chester Circuit.

CHESHIRE.

443

a foot-bridge, made for the purpose, gives these prisoners an opportunity of attending divine service when it is performed'; that is, prayers twice a week, and sermon once a month. Few prisoners in city or town gaols have such a privilege.

In November 1775, several prisoners were ill in bed’ of the cold which then generally prevailed; yet the surgeon had not, for three weeks, either seen them himself, or sent his assistant. No infirmary: nor any convenience for the proper Separation of the sexes (which impropriety the late keeper mentioned).

A legacy of £1: 13: 4 is paid annually by the corporation, but there is no memorial of it in the gaol.

TABLE ot FEES and RULES.

The rules for this gaol being in Tubftance, and almoit in words, the same as the first four Rules for the Castle, I will not transcribe them; but delire my reader to refer to them.

THE GAOLER’S FEES.

Upon any arrest for any person that Hull be brought and committed to the said prison For every execution charged upon the prisoner ...

Upon every commitment by the mayor for a misdemeanbr if a freeman If a foreigner -

For the bine room to a gentleman committed prisoner, per week

For lodging every night in a feather bed ..... In a flock or chaff bed - - - . -;

Chamber-rent per week the prisoner finding his own bedding -

For every felon committed to prison the keeper’s fees for irons and -continuance -If any person attached by form of attachment out of the exchequer at Chester be brought to the said prison the keeper’s fee thereon. -

If any person shall be arrested by form of a writ out of any of the courts at Westminster and be brought to the said prison the keeper’s fee . -

For attending the court with every prisoner '-1'

For every felon committed per week

For a copy of every commitment - - -'

To the turnkey on difehuge - . . 1; . 1

O

o

o

0

o

o

o

©

o

o

o

6

o

o'

o

S. D. S .,0 4

2 4

4

5 0 o 4

0 . 2

1 o

2 6

6 8

6 3

1 o

0 o

1 o

o 6

The above table was neither signed nor dated.

CHESTER City Bridewell, In the keeper’s house there is a room or two for those that can pay for a bed; and there is now built awork-shop and a room over it 25 feet by 16*. The employment is spinning. Down 10 steps afe two new dungeons. No water; no1 allowance: clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper’s salary, £4:4: o.

.Here were several leaden weights marked-30, 40, 60 pounds, with a ring and chains to each: these are fattened, as the magistrates order; or the keeper finds

3 L 2 needful.

Chester

City.

444 ' CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

Cehstsi needful, to the legs of refractory. prisoners, fothat they cannot walk without carrying Cstt. the weight. The keeper laid, that it was extremely difficult to make prisoners behave orderly, while they were kept together.

1775, Feb. 1, Erifoners 2. 17795 Aug. 27, Prisoners 1.

-----Nov.25,' - - o; 1782, May.24, - - 3. Impressed 1.

1776, Sep. 14, - - 12 ......

MACCLESFIELD Prison. This prison for the liberty of the hundred, manor, and forest of Macclesfield, in the pinfold or pound, for that hundred, is the property of Lord Qnlmtndtlq. It has four rooms; and a dungeon down 7 Heps (11 feet by 9), the window 6 inches square. The building is (light, and the whole of it ruinous. Keeper is a bailiff, keeps a public house; and pays rent £18. No salary: fees, 71. 6d. notable.

1776, Sep. xj. Debtors 2. 1782, Nov. 23, Debtor 1.

MACCLESFIELD Town Bridewell, is a ruinous room behind the keeper’s house. Only one aperture 10 inches by 6.- The keeper told me he was sometimes obliged to confine men and women together in it.. Salary, twenty shillings; fees, one shilling.

1776, Sep. 15, and 1782, Nov. 23, No- prisoners;

NANTWICH Prison, for Debtors. This prison for the manor or barony of Nantwich, or Wich-Malbank, is the property of Lord, Cholmtndelej. It consists of two or three rooms in the keeper's public house.

1779, Aug. 28, Prisoners 2. 1782, Nov. 23, Prisoner 1.

As the table of fees is of a late date, and (o comprehensive, I here give the copy.

Cmmty tf Chejttr, it <wit. A Table of Fees, to be taken by Shcrifi, Under-Sheriffs, Bailiffs, er other Oficen within the said County; Made, settled and allowed, at the General Quarter SeSon*—held by adjournment at the Castle of defer, in and for the said County,—the Fifteenth Day of April—1777, and in the 17th Gray III. before Sir TimmBrngitm, Baronet, Gorge Berm, Join Tnenfcni, decries Uomaaring, Snmael Barron, Samuel Fhtney, and Henry Offley Wright, Esquires;. Samnd Alderfy, Robert Bill, and JJm Baldwia, Clerks, Justices—in purfounce of an Act—made in the3tdjearr-of&wgeII.

.TaebrBailifJan every Arrefis.ae "*der. .,

... . , £. S. D.

For an aneff on an attachment for contempt, _ - - ... - o 10 o

For n debt of 10/- and under xoL - - - .0100

For a debt of 20/. and tinder 30/. - -:; . . . -0150

teadebtcf jot andasderjot. -' i :i o

F«e*defcof joL andnnde*Eoi -:; . . ... 1, .5 . o

For

Chester Circuit.

CHESHIRE.

445

£. $. D.

For a debt of 80/. and under 100l. . . . - i u 6

For a debt of ioo/. and under 200l. . - - . 22 0

For a debt of 200l. and under 500l. - - - - 2 .12 6

For a debt of 500l. and under 1000l. - - - ' . .3 30

For a debt-of 1000l. and upwards - - - . *55°

Travelling charges to make such arrest, in case the arrest be made (except on an attachment for contempt) each mile - - . - - 006

For Attendance on Arrest to be taken at follows (except on an Attachment for ContemptJ.

Where the debt does cot exceed 100l. for each day 2s, and each night is.

Where the debt does exceed 100l. and is not 200l. for each day 3/. and each night 3;.

Where the debt does exceed tool, for each day 4/. and each night 4*.

Nothing to be taken for Attendance unless the Defendant does not offer good Btul in fix hours, ' or is not discharged in that Time.

For executing every writ of Ca: fa: Ft: ffa: Levari facias, and writ of pofleffidn,

or other execution, beftdes iheriif’s poundage-. . . - . - 1 1 o

Travelling Charges as in Cafe of Arrefi.

For conducting every prisoner to gaol, or so far.as'such prisoner shall be conduced, in

his way to gaol, each mile - - - - 0 1 0

House expences whilst in custody before carrying to gaol (but not on the road) to be

allowed after the rate of zs. 6d. for every twenty-four hours, and so in proportion for a less time, all expences of prisoners and bailiffs included; ' "

For making every distress for rent,'under 20/. - . *. o,: 5 o

For 20/. and under too/. - - . - ': 6 8

For above too/. - - - - . o 10 6

For attending goods under distress, or taken in execution, for each twenty-four hours,

until the sale is finished, one person 2s. 6d. if two persons - -0.40

Travelling charges to make such distress, and house expences, as in case of arreftt No further or other allowance to be taken on account of bailiffs followers, but eveiybidliiF.to’payhis' own followers out of the above fees. c . .... r

And it is Ordered by the said Court, that this Table of Fees be printed, and; immediately dispersed throughout the said County, by the Clerk of the Peace, thereof. And to the end that no Sheriff, Under-Sheriff, Bailiff, or other Officer or Minister, may plead Ignorance of the Law, theymetj hereby take notice, that none of them are to take any other or greater Fee or Reward than what is above set forth and allowed, upon the Painscontained in the said A&

By the Court, 1 -

Clerk of the Peace" for the said County of Chester.

N ANTWICH Town Gaol. This prison (called the round house) was built by the coutity in 1782. Two rooms and a kitchen for the keeper. For prisoners. a room arched with brick (12 feet 3 inches by 10 feet a), with a barrack-bedstead: no.chimney: no court: down..j2.steps two dungeons with apertures.ia.inchesby, 9.-*-The.gentlemen seem to have overlooked a clause.in.14th Geo. III. Cap. xun.—“to

" “ prevent

Nant-

WICH.

44s

FLINTSHIRE.

Chester Circuit.

Xiii- prevent the prisoners from being kept under ground, whenever they can do it

mea. conveniently. ” The water has been 18 inches high, by the marks, in these

dungeons. Only one fire-place, that in the keeper’s kitchen.

1782, Nov. 23, No prisoners.

H AULT ON Castle Gaol. I should scarcely have mentioned this prison, fincefor a number of years past no person has been confined in it, had I not found that in an inscription in the court-room, dated 1737, it is frill called a gaol with a court-yard. Lord Chelmotdeley is proprietor under the crown; and quarterly courts are held here for the manor. Two cellars appear to have been used for the purpose of confining prisoners.

1777, March 19, No prisoners.

FLINTSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at FL1NL

Fust. GAOLER, Jobes Williams, now Jmts Perry.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debars, £0:6:0.

Felons, 0:3:6.

Transports, the expence.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, 1 each weekly is. 6d. in bread, and 6d. money: afterward Felons, > one pound of bread a day: now is. weekly in bread and 6 d. money . (See Remarks.)

Garnish, £0:1:0.

Number, num. fcsvac. Moon. Fcioas&c.

I774i June 2J, 4, 1. 1779, Aug. 27, r, 3.

1776, Sep. 13, 1, o.: 178a, May 24, 9> 3-

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mx. Davies, now Mr. Party.

Duty, Wednesday and Friday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. hglehj at Holywell.

Salary, none: he makes a bill.

Reuiic. THIS gaol is also a bridewell. . On die ground-floor are the gaoler’s apartments and taf-rom. For debtors there are, up stairs, a common ward; and two other rooms.—They have also a court, backwards. For felons and fetty offenders, two dark

CiOiCIS,

Chester Circuit.

FLINTSHIRE.

447

closets, rhe black boles, in the debtors rooms: they are each j feet by with apertures 12 inches by 6 in the doors; and were the only receptacles for criminals till a few years ago, when a dungeon in the yard was added, which is 16 feet by 11. This is down 8 steps. A court before it about 5 yards square: water laid in When men are here, women are put in the dark closets. The clauses against spirituous liquors are hung up. The act for preferring the health of prisoners not hung up: no infirmary. The debtors and felons not being satisfied with the kind allowance from the county of is. 6d. in bread and 6d. in money per week, the justices very properly ordered only a pound of bread a day to each.

- Great sessions at Mold: conveyance thither at the gaoler’s expence. He has now a salary of £30 as keeper of the bridewell.—There is no work-room nor employment for petty offenders, nor day-room for felons.

About five and twenty years ago, here was a debtor who infilled upon not being subject to the gaoler, nor to any orders but such as should be enjoined- by the magistrates. Upon this occasion, as I was informed, the justices at the quarter felllons held at Holywell in July 1759, made some salutary rules for the government of this prison, which are hung up in the gaol. It is probable the man knew he had a statute to support his claim, namely, the act the 32d of George II.

TABLE OF FEES.

FTinlshire, ti mil. At the Court of Great Session held at Flint—on—22d of August—5th—of our Sovereign Lord Gorge III—1765 before the Hon Me John Merten Esq. Chief Justice of—Chefier, Flint, Denbigh, and Mentgemeiy; and Tyler White Esq. his Majesty’s other Justice there aligned Sec.—It is— Ordered that the Gaoler for the time being do take no more than the Fees and Allowances hereafter mentioned which the court conceive to be sufficient and reasonable

(That is to say)

A Tabu of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of this County.

£. S.

For the receipt of every prisoner for debt ~ , - .' - . - , o r

For the use of the bedfiead and chamber by the week the prisoner finding his pwn bedding 0.1 If the bedding found by gaoler per week then . - . - -or

For a copy of every commitment - - . - ' .' 01

Attending every prisoner brought by rale of const - - - -01

Fee on prisoner’s discharge - - - - .02

Turnkey’s fee on prisoner’s di&haige - - - - .01.

The above Table of Fees is ratified and confirmed by

John. MoRton.

Ruees to be obfetved within, the Gaol of Flint.

1. All prisoner; to behave—respectfully to keeper—Whoever—Srike or assault any—to be punished by . a justice at discretion.

2. No curling or swearing—No gaming in the hall nor in private.

3. Prisoners

Feint

County

Gaoe.

44*

Fti«f

CoHSTT

Busc*

WELL,

FLINTSHIRE. Chestbr Circuit.

3. Prifeaers to retire to their respective rooms—from Lady-day to Michaelmas at tune—from Michael, as to Lady-day ait eight—To be let oat in the morning—from Lady-day to^lichaelmas at fix— Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight.

4^ Friends or relations—to bring necessaries,—being—searched for inftramenu if required—Not to

__ flay long—without leave, except in—ficknefr—nor alter the hours of locking up.

3. The prifimers for felony and nufdemeanors shall keep in the npper.ward—except leave to the contrary, and then not to intermix with the debtors.

6. Noprifeaer to remove—the keeper’s beds fee.—nor his own bed—without gaoler’s consent.

7. Priiboers may bring their own beds, and take them away. If they choose the keeper’s bed pay

two fiilfings at the end of every week. Upon non-payment the gaoler may take die bed, and pot the prisoner to lie in any other room as is usual for prifimers who cannot bring beds or pay chamber-rent. J

8. That the pobltc-rooms—be kept and made.clean daily—by the prifimers.

9. That no prifimers shall have any ofienfive weapons—or iaftruments—that may conduce to their

escape.

At the General Quarter Sessions held at HefyweQ~\i\h July—33d Gorge II. 1759.

We whefe Names are hereunto fobferibed his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace assembled in open Sessions aferefiud approve of the above Rules to be observed within the Gaol of Flint.

Reger Mofyn, David Pennant,

J$ba Gfynae, Tbmos Thorns*

Themes Hughes,

WiWmn Wjmt Clerk of the Peace.

ANOTHER

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at HANMER.

Two rooms in a ruinous thatched hoUTe; no chimneys in them. No court: no water: no employment: fees, 3*. 6d. no table. Clauses against fprrituous liquors not hing up. Keeper’s friary, £10; out of.which he paysrent for the house.

1775, Aug. 29, No prisoners.

-- DENBIGHSHIRE.

Cwstjr Circuit. DENBIGHSHIRE,

COUNTY GAOL at RUTHIN

GAOLER, jojtfb Stoddard*

Salary, £10.

Fees, Debtors, £0:6:0.

Felons, o: 3: 6.

Transports, £t each to Chester.;

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, u. 6d. a week.

Garndhj ..Debtors, £0: 2: .6.

Felons, -o: 1: o.

Number, Detion. Ftloni &c. Dtbton. Monac.

*774) June 25, 8, 5. 1779; Aug. 26, 2, a.

1776, Sep. 13, 2, 1, .1782, June .22, i, 7.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr.fierce. ' ,

Duty, , r Sunday. '

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. NwMt.

Salary, now £12.

THIS gaol (lately built) is also a county bridewell. In the front,are the gaoler’s apartments. Backwards, on the ground-floor, a day-room or kitchen hr debtors 27 feet by 15; and another as large for criminals: and for the latter, only four cells 7( feet.by 6|; two.on each fide of.a passage but 3 feet wide. The cells are arched'with brick, and lined with oak planks. In each there is a bedstead with two blankets arid a coverlet, , A window in each 3 feet by.i, which was glazed: but.being found too dose, is.now open. In,both the debtors and felons day-rooms are 8 clipboards.with Separate locks and keys, that each may secure his provision. Above are nine.rpoms for debtors.(about 13T feet by,n(), and a neat,chapel, but no free ward. In.each of the debtors rooms is an iron bedstead, two chairs, a table, and a fender. Separate courts'-for debtors and criminals: in each a pump with excellent Water, and a bathing-rOom, with a copper &c. made so convenient that they ate. in constant use. . ' ,.

Gentlemen so considerate, win^caio^'.R»Q»' ah. infirmaiy,. and f£pu«png women from men, as this is a county bridewell. If a door-way, wa|, made between the windows of the felons day-room into their court, they might be more separated from the debtors.—This gaol is keptclean.buthasnbtbeenwhite-wallied^finte it was

'" :S 1 occupied;

4*jr

Rothih.

Rshasks.

4S°

Rcthis

CorsTT

Gaol.

Bfcior-

TS LLS.

DENBIGHSHIRE. Chester Circuit.

occupied; a fault too common in new prisons. The act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up: but the daufes against spirituous liquors are hung up. Great sessions, of late, at Wrexham. The gaoler has a salary of £20 as. keeper of bridewell. ' .....

TABLE OF FEES.

Daliftjhirt, it vest. At die General Quarter Seffious—at Denbigh—on the »6th day of Aptil in the 5th—of oar Sovereign Lord Geouge III—1765 before Jtln"Eiixaris June, and Join Ctmcy Esqrs. and others—Joffices—Whereas the Under-Sheriff of this County has applied to this Court'to have the Gaoler’s Fees settled and fixed, purfoant to the Statutes in such case made, it is therefore Ordered that the Gaoler—do take no more than the Fees and Allowance hereafter mentioned—(That is to say)

A Table of Fees to' be taken by the Gaoler of this County.

Fees on the receipt of every prisoner -

For the use of the bedfiead and chamber by the week the prisoner finding'his own bedding o If bedding be found by the gaoler then by the week - . - - o

For a copy of every commitment - . - . - o

Attending every prisoner brought up by rule of court . - . o

Fee on prisoner’5 discharge - . . o

Turnkey’s fee on piBoner’s discharge - - - ’ o

The above Table of Fees is ratified and confirmed by By the Cosit Jebn Hsfitr Clerk of the Peace.

John Morton,

other COUNTY BRIDEWELLS,

WREXHAM. This is only part of an house, the whole of which seems to have been formerly the bridewell; but most of it is now the parish poor-Koufe. The prison has—on the ground-floor the keeper’s rooms and liable; and for prisoners, two dark oSFenfive rooms, with apertures in the doors 10 inches by 7: a wall within 6 feet of the doors: prisoners have, with just cause, complained of bring almost suffocated; and begged to be let out for air into the keeper’s garden, on the other fide of the house.—Up stairs are three rooms. for those who can pay. The prison out of repair. No pump. The late keeper was a flteriflr’s officer; salary, /8. Fees uncertain, not being settled by the justices. 1774, Mar. 30, Prisoners 2. 1779, July 26, Prisoners 2.

1776, Sep. 12, - - 1. . 1782, June 22, - 1.

DENBIGH. Part of an old house. No court: no water: no fewer. Keeper’s salary, £6: out of which he pays tq the parish £3 rent for the house.—Under the ' town-hall, the block bale, 24 feet by 16, is used as a prison.'

1779, Aug. 26, Prisoners o: 1 distrafted man, 2 paupers.

1782, June 22, - - o: 2paupers.

MONTGOMERY-

Chester Circuit. MONTGOMERYSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at MO NTGOMERY.

GAOLER, William Davies. ’

Salary,' . £12 :i2: o from the sheriff.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 8:0.

Felons, o: 14: 4.

Transports, about £10: 10 t o each.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS, \

Allowance, Debtors, on application, the fame as Felons.

Felons, two 14d. loaves a week. Now a 6d. loaf every other day from the gaoler.

Garnish, £0:2:6.; '

Number, Debtors. Felons &c. Debtors. Felons Sec.

1774; June 29,; 3, 4. 1779, May 16, 4, j.-tlmpreffed 1.

1775».Nov. 29, 2, 0. 1782, Sep. 26, 11, 4.

CHAPLAIN,' Rev! l^r: At»e& ' V-.-

Duty, Sunday. , ‘

Salary, £20. 0 ->.) ' . J,.

SURGEONS, two, In quarterly rotation. Now only Mr. Slepkats.

Salary, ' £7:10:0 each. Now £8.

THIS gaol is finely situated on a rising groun<},r, Here, we eight..rooms for debtors, three of.whichare.freewards, and, two cclis-8/eet by? 7, and a condemned cell for felons; all clean. No day-room. Court common. The fine, stream of water, which at my first visit was running through the court, is turned off. A large brew-house is built for the gaoler. Th.qre might be a room over it much more convenient for a chapel than that now used. Great, ielfions. always at Welch Pool; whither prisoners are conveyed at the gaoler’s expence. Act for preserving the health of prisoners not hung up. The gaol has been white-washed but oiice Slice the act palfed. No bath, though very conveniently situated for plenty of water. "

Debtors are. sent from.the county-court for small sums, and no term is fixed for j^eir(.discharge,- jis. is generally ordered Jin the «ff;/oi; the (ffvt , One was

here^onfjg^ for £1,: u, ^..coils £1.i: 1 i,rexclnfiyc.of the gapless, fep. The gaoler laid, many had been committed for muchlefs sums, , and lay for several years

.. . . -ijThe table of fees not legible.^ '

.V)?l In f~/i

-novxAi'i i>\ 0

*S»

Montgo-

mery.

Remarks.

45*

A. NGLE SET.".

Nok.tr 'W AC*& Circuit,

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MONTGOMERY.

Bun- Two rooms in the keeper’s thatched house; thelargeft of winch is 18 feet inches W£LI" by 13 feet 9; no fire-place: and down 8 steps a damp dungeon-13 feet by 9 feet

. . 3 inches, with flocks': out of repair r not secure. No materials for work. No

allowance. Keeper has a garden: his salary, £13:13 :4: no fees.

1775, Nov. 19, Prisoner o. -1779, May 16, - - 1.

1782, Sep. 26, - - o.

NORTHWALES CIRCUIT. ANGLESEY.. COUNTY GAOL at BEAUMARIS.

Biao-

uui.

GAOLER, WiUieM Thomas, afterwards Jebt Prichard, now his Widow. Salary, £5 from the iheriff.

Fe* :5:o.

Felons, 3*’ 3

Transports, the expence, licence. Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a stuffing loaf i week, and one pound of butter. Number,' Mon, Fdoufc.

*774. jnne *7>

*779. Joly *4. 4. * 1

1782, May 26, 7, i.

CHAPLAIN, none. SURGEON, none.

tuuu. THIS gaol is also the county bridewell. In 1780 it was altered much for the better. It has five rooms and a court for debtors, and' a court for felons. There are thitebed-roocbsind a day-room; (21‘feet by i‘40 with' a fire-place for then-felons, and-a day-room in which there is a linsdl night-room for Woinen-feibhs. The keeper’s window is properly towards the felons court. _ No water: no straw. Neither elites agaunft spirituous liquors, nor act for" preferring the health of prisoners, are hung up. The gaoler has £5 a year as keeper of bridewell. No table of fees.

!i CARNARVON-

Norm WAtBS Circuit.

CARNARVONSHIRE.

♦S3

COUNTY GAOL at CARNARVON.

GAOLER, nomas Prichard.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £01 3: 6 entrance.

o: a s 6 dischargp.

Felons, o: 13 s 4.

Transports, the expence. -Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, 2 s. 4 d. a week each. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, a Dulling:

Number, Debtor*. Fdon* Ac. Debtor*. Mont Ac,

1774* June 27* 2, 1. 1782, June 21, 7, o.

*779* July.24, J> i- -----Sep. 24, 3, o.

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, none.

THIS gaol, which is also the bridewell, was formerly a chapel, and is in a Rimaaki. ruinous condition. Two rooms for debtors, and two for felons: one of the latter down 11 steps, with an aperture 18 inches by 3 j the other under the stairs only 9 feet by 7, with no window: all of them very dirty, and never white-waOied. Joining to the gaol is a large room, formerly a house of correction, but lately used by Drolling players. A court, but no fewer: no water. Neither clauses againD spirituous liquors,. nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are hung up. Great session in Lent at Conway. The gaoler has £5 a year as keeper of bridewell. He (tops front each felon’s allowance six-pence a week for (what he calls) his trouble of weekly, payments.

No table of fees.

Among the various improvements' that are making in this town, may it not be. hoped, that the county-magistrates will think of a better prison.

MERIONETHSHIRE.

Camas.

vox.

45*

ANGLESEY.

Nokts Vuk Cocevrr.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MONTGOMERY.

Biidi- Two rooms in the keeper’s thatched house; the large!! of which is 18 feet inches WELL* by 13 feet 9; no fire-place: and down 8 steps a damp dungeon -13 feet by 9 feet 3 inches, with flocks’: out of repair r not secure. No materials for work. No allowance. Keeper has a garden: his salary, £t3: 13: 4: no fees.

1775, Nosr. 29, Prisoner o.

1779, May 16, - - 1.

178a, Sep. 26, - - o.

NORTH WALES CIRCUIT. ANGLESEY.

COUNTY GAOL at BEAUMARIS.

Bias. GAOLER, WUBam Thamas, afterwards Jabu PrUbard, now his Widow.

“*“ Salary, £5 from the flteriff.

Fees, Debtors, } ,

> /O: c: O.

Felons,

Transpora, die expence.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Number, Felons, a Stilling loaf a week, and one pound of butter. Osteon. (Oust.

*774, June 27, a. O.

*779. J»iy *4» 4, I.

1782, CHAPLAIN, SURGEON, May a6, none. none. 7, I.

Rivases. THIS gaol is also the county bridewell. In 1780 it was altered much for the better. It has five rooms and a court for debtors, and a court for felons. There are three bed-rooms and a day-room (21 feet by 14^) with a fire-place for men-fclons, and a day-room in which there is a small night-room for women-felons. The keeper’s window is properly towards the felons court. No water: no straw. Neither daufes against spirituous liquors, nor act for preferring the health of prisoners, are hung up. The gaoler has jfj a year as keeper of bridewell. No table of fees.

CARNARVON.

North Walss Circuit.

CARNARVONSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, at CARNARVON.

GAOLER, nomas Prichard.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £o: 3 t 6 entrance.

o: 2:6 dischargf.

Felons, o: 13: 4.

Transports, the expence.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a t. a week each. (See Remarks.)

Gamilh, a shilling.

Number, Debtors. Fdofufte. Debtors. Felons Ac

1774s June 27, 4, 1. 1782, June 21, 7, o.

1779. July 24, 5, 1. Sep. 24, 3s

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, none.

THIS gaol, which is also the bridewell, was formerly a chapel, and is in a ruinous condition. Two rooms for debtors, and two for felons: one of the latter down 11 steps, with an aperture 18 inches by 3; the other under the stairs only 9 feet by 7, with no window: all of them very dirty, and never white-waihed. Joining to the gaol is a large room, formerly a house of correction, but lately u(ed by (trolling players. A court, but no fewer: no water. Neither dauies against spirituous liquors, nor the act for preferring the health of prisoners, are hung up. Great session in Lent at Conway. The gaoler has £$ a year as keeper of bridewell. He flops from each felon’s allowance six-pence a week for (what he calls) his trouble of weekly payments. No table of fees.

Among the various improvements that are making in this town, may it not be. hoped, that the cOunty-magistrates will think of a better prison.

«!J

Cu»

«n.

Rsnaais.

MERIONETHSHIRE.

♦54

MERIONETHSHIRE.

North Wales Cntvrr.

Doicillt.

Riraiks.

Btl&f-

WELLS.

COUNTY GAOL at DOLGELLY.

GAOLER, Rice Edwards.

Salary, £9.

Fees, Debtors, J , ,

Felons, \£° ' Transmits, the ezpence. Licence, Beer.

8.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, now js. a week for each, but paid to the gaoler. Number, Debton. Felons Ac.

1774. June 28, 1, 1.

1779. Aug. 25, 3, 2.

1780, Sep. 25, 8, 2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Job* James.

Duty, Prayers on Friday.

Salary, £10.

SURGEON, Mr. Owen.

Salary, now £10.

THIS gaol was repaired about twenty years ago. Six rooms for debtors, two below and four on the first floor, but no free ward; four rooms above for criminals. The windows were all dole glazed, but now have casements. The court not secure: no water in the court. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Act for prderving the health of prisoners, on paper, hung up. No table of fees. Great fession in Lent at Bala.

John Davis, committed Oft. 6, 1774, and sentenced for transportation for fourteen years, was here in September 1782.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

DOLGELLY. Two rooms under the town-hall. No court: no water. Keeper, the county gaoler. Salary, £6.

1779, Aug. 2j, and 1782. Sep. 25, No prisoners.

BALA. Two rooms joining to the town-hall, 11 feet square. Allowance, three shillings a week for each, paid to the keeper. No court: no water. Keeper’s

&1 ary, £1.

1779, Aug. 26, No prisoners.

CARDIGAN.

Carmarthen Circuit.

CARDIGANSHIRE.'

♦55

COUNTY GAOL at CARDIGAN.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Transports,

Licence,

PRISONERS,

Allowance,

Number, J774> *77 9, 1781,

CHAPLAIN,

Duty,

Salary,

SURGEON,

Salary,

Charles Thomas. formerly £12, now/10. Debtors,

Felons, the expence.

Beer.

!*

13:4-

Debtors, none.

Felons, two shillings a week.

Debtors. Felons &c.

Aug. 13, 4, o.

June 4, 2, o.

oa. 10, 3, 1.

Rev. Mr. Davies, now Rev. Mr. Evans. Sunday.

£20.

Mr. Davies.

£10.

THIS gaol, which is also the bridewell and town gaol, was just finished when I was first there. A flight building. It consists of two rooms below about 1 j feet by 13, and two over them. They were dose glazed, but now every pane is broke for air. There is a dungeon down 11 steps. The rooms, and the court (3j feet by 24), were very dirty, which is often the case where there is no voter. Neither the act for preserving the health of prisoners, nor clauses against spirituous liquors', are hung up. No allowance from the county, either of bedding or straw j or of fuel. No table of fees.

Cardigan.

Remarks.

PEMBROKESHIRE.

PEMBROKESHIRE.

OUUMUTBBI ClHCOST.

H>m-

ratnmt.

IliliUl.

COUNTT GAOL at HAVERFORDWEST.

GAOLER,

Salary,

Fees,

Richard Grifth. none, now £16.

Debtors, ? . Felons,

*3 4*

Transpods Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Debtors, certified by their parish, a penny a day. (See Remarks). Felons, a penny a day.

Number, . otbun. rucn»*c.

1774. Aog. 14, 4, 1.

1779. June 5. * 2.

178a, Oft. at, 6, o.

CHAPLAIN,

Duty,

Salary,

SURGEON,

Salary,

Rev. Mr. Jnes, now Rev. Mr. Phillips. Wednesday and Friday.

£20.

Mr. Davies, now Mr. Thomas.

£20, now £t$.

THE old gaol was also the bridewell. Six rooms. The two lowest were very damp dungeons: in one of these, as I was informed, a prisoner loft, first the use of his limbs, and then his life: since that time, none had been confined in either of them. The upper rooms were dirty and offensive, with small windows. No sewers: no court. No table of fees.

But a new gaol is now built within the walls of the old castle. Here are five cells and a kitchen for felons, and a bridewell room for mem; and five rooms over them for debtors, and a room called the man’s bridewell. The cells (12 feet by 6 feet 9 inches) open into a passage feet wide. These cells being four steps under ground and damp, makes it almost absolutely necessary to have bedsteads. Here is a chapel: but there is no infirmary or bath. There is a fine well of water in the ipacious court. A pump is necessary, for wells and ropes are dangerous in gaols. Neither the act for preierving the health of prisoners, nor clauses against spirituous liquors, were hung up.

Mrs. Martha Bowen declared in her will, that £100 had been deposited in her hands by an unknown person, about the year 1751, for the benefit of insolvent debtors, and die poor: which said sum of £100 was invested in New South Sea amurities

in

Carmarthen Circuit.

CARMARTHENSHIRE.

4J7

in trust' to the rectors of St. Mary’s, Haverfordwest. The present reftor, the Haver-Rcv. Charles Aylcvsay very wifely distributes the interest, in bread weekly, a lixpenny '°*DWS5T loaf to each poor debtor, and the remainder in twopenny loaves to the poor in the town.

At HAVERFORDWEST is also the

Town and-County Gaol; which is likewise the bridewell. Two rooms below, one for debtors, the other for felons. The bridewell, a room above (134^ feet by 13). No court: no water. Gaoler, R. Griffith the county gaoler. No salary. 1774, Aug. 14, Prisoners o.

1779, June j. Debtor 1.

1782, Oft. 21, - - 1.

PEMBROKE Town Gaol. Two rooms (24J feet by 12) the lower one damp and dirty; no fire-place: no court: no water: no fewer. (See French Prisoners, p. 188.) 1782, Oft. 21, No prisoners.

CARMARTHENSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL, CARMARTHEN CASTLE.

GAOLER, John Williams.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 13: 4.

Felons, o: 13:4.

-Petty offenders, o: 3:4. T ranfports, £ 5 each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, ' a shilling a week. Number, Debton. FeJon, Ac.

1774, Aug. IJ, 16, 10.

1776, Sep. 8, 4, 7.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Davies. Duty, Sunday.

Salary, £12:12:0.

SURGEON, Mr. Price. Salary, £20.

i N

Carmar-

then.

Debtors. Felons ftc.

1779, June 4, 14, 8.

1782, Oft. 20, ij, 3.

CARMARTHEN

456

CARMARTHENSHIRE. Carmarthen Circuit.

Remakes.

CARMARTHEN CASTLE.

THIS gaol is also the county bridewell. Both the old and new cells for criminals are too close, about 7 feet by 6: apertures in the doors only 8 inches square: earth floors. The day-room is used as a chapel. Over it is a free ward: and over that a room for the sick. The condemned dungeon is damp; a small window. One court-yard; but it is spacious. A house of four rooms on a floor for the gaoler, lately built in the court; but he still lives distant, as before: it has convenient rooms for master’s-fide debtors; and an alarm-bell at top: by ringing it, a debtor prevented an escape of the felons. No water; the well is useless; and the gaol offensive. Water might be laid in from a conduit at a little distance, for which the debtors have frequently petitioned the Bench, but in vain. Transports had not the king’s allowance of is. 6d. a week. The act for preserving the health of prisoners, and clauses against spirituous liquors, are not hung up. No table of fees. j. Williams has £12 :12:0a year as keeper of bridewell. To this prison there are ndes or bounds, which extend about half a mile round.

Two of the offenders, whom I saw in 1776, were for fines which they could not pay. They had not the county allowance, and were almost starved.

The gaoler was desirous of farming the allowance: but the abuse of such a trust by the gaoler at Brecon had been detected; and the request of this gaoler was not granted.

At two of my viiits, here were a number of idle and profane people playing at tennis.

At CARMARTHEN is also the COUNTY-BOROUGH-GAOL.

To the four rooms of this gaol at the gate, there is an afeent by stone steps on the outside. No court: no water. Keeper, one of the town sheriffs, lives distant. At my first visit, a young creature committed for a petty theft had been there four months, and was Gck on the floor. At another vilit, a debtor sick in bed. Besides the four prisoners whom I saw in 1776, the sheriff told me he had one in the rules s for here, as in the county gaol, debtors who give security, have the privilege of the rules; for which they pay the gaoler a guinea each, and the fame on the appointment of every ftierlff. Food, See, for the prisoners was put through an aperture at the bottom of the door: a little girl, the daughter of a prisoner, could just get through it to fetch water, &c. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up.—At my two last visits, very dirty, and full of vermin. Fees, debtors 13.1. 4d.

Debtor*. FdoniXcc. Debtor*. Felons S:c,

1774, Aug. ij, o, 1. 1779, June 4, o, 1.

1776, Sep. 8, 3, 1. 1782, Oft. 20, 2, 1. Deserters 2.

See fejet 13, z6, 219, 238.

RADNORSHIRE.

South Wales Circuit.

RADNORSHIRE.

459

COUNTY GAOL at PRESTEIGN.

GAOLER, John Thomas, now Wiliam Thomas.

Salary, £10 from the sheriff, afterwards: j: o, now £lO. '

Fees, Debtors, £o: 6:8.

Felons, o: to: o.

Transports, the treasurer has £$ each.

Licence, Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on application.

Felons, a three-penny loaf for two days (weight Sep. 178a, 1 ilk). Garnish, £0:1:0.

Number, Debtors. Felons Ac. Debtor*. Felons arc.

1774, June 30, 4, 3. 1779, May 17, 2, 2.

1775, Nov. 30, 3, i._ 1782, Sep. 27, 9, 4.

CHAPLAIN, none.

SURGEON, none.

THIS gaol is also the county bridewell. At my last visit I found some alteration. Besides the keeper’s apartments, there are now five rooms and a hall for debtors, two of which (18 feet by 12) are new, but no free ward; a cell for criminals (ill feet by 6), and a day-room. No straw. Down three steps is a damp dungeon, which I hope is never used. The bridewell room (nf feet by 10J) has ho window. The keeper’s garden is now taken into the court, but debtors are not separated from felons. There are still wanted two rooms for criminals, an infirmary and bath, and casements to the windows, they being all close glazed. Neither clauses against spirituous liquors, nor the act for preserving the health of prisoners, are hung up: no table of fees. The gaoler has £2 a year as bridewell keeper.

A day-labourer, who had a wife and two small children, was confined here from the county court, for a debt of only 9a. colts, 6a. id. gaoler’s fee, 3 s. 4 d.

Presteign.

Remarks.

jNa

BRECONSHIRE.

4&>

BRECONSHIRE.

South Walks Cikcuit.

Such.

Remits.

COUNTY GAOL at BRECON.

GAOLER, Magdalen William, now John Lloyd.

Salary, £31: 10: o a year to supply felons with necefiaiy food (fee Remarks); now, salary none.

Fees, Debtors,

Felons,

Transports, £5 each.

Licence, Beer, now no Licence.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on applying to justices.

Felons, now one pound and a half of bread each.

Garnish, £0:2:6.

Number, Debtors, felons Ac. Debtors. Felons Ac.

1774, Aug. II, 7, 3. 1779, June 3> 3> 3-

1776, Sep. 9, 4, I. 1782, Oft. 18, i, 2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. High Jones.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, and Friday.

Salary, £10, now £15.

SURGEON, Mr. Thomas Williams.

Salary, £5.

THIS gaol was out of repair. Two courts common to debtors and felons: they also lodged together. A dark dungeon. At my first visit the prisoners were almoit starved by the gaoler. Two gentlemen of the county, who were then in . the gaol with me, resented the abuse.—No straw.—No daufes of ad again It spirituous liquors: no table of fees. Transports had not the king’s allowance of is. 6d. a week.

At my visit in 1779, a new gaol and bridewell was building out of the town, near the river, and I then observed that the situation was too low, so that sometimes it may be exposed to floods.—In 1782 it was finished. There are five rooms above for debtors, two of which are free wards: a day-room for men-felons (261 feet by 14), into which two cells open, and in the front court a lodging-room.

In another court five rooms or cells, about 6J feet by 4L and 8 feet high.—For women a ft-pirate court, a day-room, five lodging-rooms; and two rooms for the lick.

A chapel, with a bell over it. The courts are properly paved with flag-ltones.—

The water has been three feet high in the cells by a flood, but some precautions are taken to prevent it for the future.—This new gaol is not kept clean; fowls and dogs were in the courts.

Here were hung up printed clauses from several acts of parliament made for the regulation of prisons; and also, the following rules for the Brcconshire gaol.

RULES

\

South Wai.es Circuit,

4$\

BRECONSHIRE.

RULES for the BRECONSHIRE Gaol.

CHAPLAIN* DUTY.

To do doty three times a week, of which SunJay to be one.

To administer the Sacrament as often as required.

To be a check on the gaoler, and tfye persons who fapply the gaol with provisions, and to report any irregularity to the court of quarter feJJsons\ but in the mean time to apply to two justices of the peace.

SURGEON* DUTY.

No pri/oner to be admitted into either of the infirmaries without order from the surgeon, and to be discharged from thence as loon as recovered by order from the surgeon*

PEES.

No garnish to be allowed.

For the discharge of every pri/oner seven shillings.

Prisoners to be conveyed to the Hulls on the Thames, or to the penitentiary honfes; not exceeding four pence per mile for their conveyance, and four pence per day for their maintenance.

GAOLER'S DUTY.

Not to be concerned In subsisting or felling any thing to the pri/oners, but to lee that the persons (applying them with provisions do not defraud them $ and to inspefi the cells twice every day.

That he obliges the pri/oners to wash their day-room, yards and cells once in every twenty-four hours, between the hours of eight and ten in the morning in the futnmer, and twice a week in the winter, and in case of refusal to confine them in their cells until they comply.

To lock up the pri/oners at fix of the clock in the winter evenings, and nine in the furomer, and to let them out of their cells at eight of the clock in the morning in the winter, and fix in the summer.—No stranger whatever to be admitted into the cells, or speak with the pri/oners, but ill the presence of the gaoler or turnkey.

The pump in each yard to be locked up, and a small (lone cittern under each pump to be filled with water twice every day, or oftener if found convenient.

No lights, candle, or fire to be admitted into any cell.

To wash the felons on their entrance into gaol in the cold bath, and before they are brought up into court.

No wives or children of any pri/oner to live in gaol, or lodgers of any kind.

No fowls, pigs, or any other animals to be kept in gaol.

Filth to be taken away every week, by the gaoler, on penalty of ten shillings.

Convicts to be confined in the cells.

No edge tool to be in the gaol, but such as may be ordered hereafter by the justices.

No gaming whatever.

Scales and weights to be kept in due order.

That the gaoler /hail by order of the quarter fe/pons put the pri/oners charged with felony or other misdemeanours to work.

That the several denominations and sexes of pri/oners be kept separate, and never to have communication.

Riot, drunkenness, and obfeenity to be severely punished, by order of any one justice.

All family business to be done in that part of the building appropriated for the correction.

That the gaoler keeps the debtors rooms and his own apartments clean.

That the gaoler keeps the glass windows, together with all fetters, locks, nnd doors in repair.

Brecon

CoONTT

Gaol.

COUNTY

South Wales Circuit.

♦61 GLAMORGANSHIRE.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BRECON,

Bum- ln 1779, wis discontinued, and the prisoners sent to the old county gaol, "but in

wtLt" 17S1 the new bridewell joining to the gaol was finished. It has for men, a work-

room (about 27 feet by 14), and five cells or lodging-rooms: for women, a workroom and three cells. Two rooms for an infirmary. In both the men’s and women’s court, there are pumps and baths. A door opens into the chapel, where there are two divisions for these prisoners. Keeper is a weaver and dyer. Salary, £10. Prisoners have two thirds of their earnings, spinning wheels and cards for wool being found by the county. This prison was clean. Clauses from fix acts of parliament relative to houses of correction, are hung up.

1782, Oft. 18, One prisoner.

BRECON Town Gaol, was over the gate-way, which has been taken down. It now confish of only two rooms 7 4 feet square; no fire-place: no allowance: no court: no water: the house quite out of repair. Sergeant at mace is keeper. Fees, 3*. 6dno table.

1776, Sep. 9, 1779, Juue 3, and 178a, Oft. 18, No prisoners.

GLAMORGANSHIRE.

COUNTY GAOL at CARDIFF.

CftADtrr. GAOLER, TbtMMs Lezcis, afterwards William Coih, now John Otrrjr.

Salary, none: but he farms the debtors allowance. (See Remarks.)

F“* ^}£0:7:8‘

Transports, £$ each.

Licence, Beer and Wine, afterwards none, now for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on application to the justices.

Felons, ten pence halfpenny each on Saturday.

Garaifh, £0; a: 6.

Number, oetaca Fitat& ocieas. mow is.

1-74, Aug. 19, 14, 2- 1779. Jo* 8, 3, o.

1776, Sep. 6, ft, ft. 17S2, Oft. ft3, 16,

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. few.

Duty, Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary, /30, now £20.

SURGEON, Mr.

Salary, /to, now /20.

CARDIFF.

South Wales Circuit.

GLAMORGANSHIRE.

4H

CARDIFF.

THE new gaol is finiftied and consists of three separate buildings with courts between them. The rooms for debtors and a chapel are in the front where the old gaol flood, behind which is a court with water: then the gaoler’s house, which has two rooms on a floor. At the back of this is the felons court and beyond that their wards confining of three vaulted rooms, and a room for the turnkey. Above, are three chambers. No infirmary. No water in the felons court.—-The gaoler’s house being in the middle, he might have the felons court as well as the debtors cooftantly in view, if two windows were made in the upper rooms: but his passing to the street through the debtors house, may be dangerous to him when they prove riotous.—* The gaoler undertakes for £40 a year to pay a shilling a week to such debtors as the justices shall appoint.*—Great sessions always at Cowbridge.—Neither the a&forpreserving the health of prisoners, nor clauses against spirituous liquors, were hung up.

At my viflt in 1779 I found the following table of fees hung up, but ligned only by the justices: at my last visit there was no table.

Glumorganjhirt. A TabLt Of Fees and Chamber Rent to be taken by the Gaoler and also the Rates he shall impose on each Prisoner that makes use of the Gaoler's Bed and Bedding, and Directions for his Government of the Prison and Prisoners in his Custody, made in pursuance of the Statute in that case made and provided.

To the gaoler or turnkey at the receiving each prisoner into his custody, and which shall be paid by such prisoner before he is discharged ..

To the gaoler upon the discharge of each prisoner ..

For the lodging of each prisoner in either of the fore-street chambers (the largest of which shall contain no more than three beds and the other two beds) such prisoner finding his own bedding and bed cloathes each night, seven farthings For the lodging of each prisoner in either of the fere-street chambers when the gaoler finds such prisoner with a sufficient feather bed, boifler and bed cloathes, three pence halfpenny per night - -

For the lodging of each prisoner in either of such fore-street rooms at the gaoler*! finding a flock bed, dust bed, or other coarse ordinary bed and bed cloathes, two pence halfpenny per night ....

For the lodging of each prisoner in any or either of the other chambers or rooms in the gaol, when the gaoler finds such prisoner with a fu&cimt feather bed, hotter mad bed cloathes, two pence per night ...

For a flock, dufl, or Other ordinary bed and bedding, one penny per night

£. S. D.

ii

Thai all tie pritetn is hi* custody Ball be at liberty to Ceni mat of the gaol for what riSasU and drink they think fct, grata/; and that ike gaoler for the tame bring feall net by tompulfaen or ether-wife oblige aay ynkaer in hit cta&oiv to hoy any seat or drink cf hist, bat if the ptifottera Of 2nf os either of then &all oat of choice deal with fncfc gaoler for their prortto* or other iktsg, that ike* (atk gaoler dull fa,j>!y facb prifeoi arith faSden proriio*a and driafc at rateable rate.

Rema.ci.

A IrigMfn itwnd eta, data. meiepo iour tosSmtA tea yearn tsr lerta feoaU,£otia tkept&fa* before I me date-

That

4&4 GLAMORGANSHIRE. South Walk Circuit.

Cakoiff COVITT Gaol. That if ur difference fftoold happen to arise between the gaoler and prisoners with regard to the goodnefe of the beds or bed cloathes or the gocdnefs and price of the prorifions the gaoler shall find such prisoners with, that then such difference shall be fobmitted to the arbitration of the treaforer of the said county for the time being, who is hereby desired, and as far as we can, empowered, to settle and adjnft such difference! and give such relief therein as shall be reaibnable and jnft to the party grieved, and if it shall happen that either party shall think himself aggrieved by such adjnft-meat, he may appeal from such order or determination as such treaforer shall make in the matter to the next General Quarter Scfions of the Peace to be holden for the said county. In order to enforce the prisoners in the said gaol to pay daly and regularly for such chambers as they shall take, or such beds, bed cloathes, meat and drink as such gaoler shall find them with at the prices and in manner aforesaid. We do hereby give the gaoler, upon their neglect and refofal of payment for one whole month together, liberty to torn them out of their laid rooms and chambers into the common rooms, until such rime that they shall have fully and so>fid* paid what shall be io due from them to the said gaoler* Micbh Rubor ds* W*. Margo* RagtrPamelL Michaelmas Quarter Scfions, 1739* " A Copy.*

Bkide- WILL. COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COWBRIDGE. Besides the old room towards the street, now seldom used, there are two rooms built in the back court; each 15 feet square. In them provision is made for the circulation of air; for besides the window, there are 5 apertures of about a foot diameter in each room. The late keeper told me, many had died of the gaol-fever: a man and woman about a year before; when himself and his daughter were also ill of it. Court not secure. No allowance: no employment. Clauses against spirituous liquors not hung up. Keeper's salary, ,£25: 12: 0. Fees, 6s. id. no table. 1774, Aug. 19, Prisoners 0. 1779, June 7, Prisoners 2. 1776, Sep. 6, - - 0. 1782, Oft. 23, - - a. CARDIFF Tows Gaol. Two rooms arched with brick, under the town-hall. 1779, June 8, Debtor 1. 1782, Oft. 23, Debtor 1. SWANSEY Tows Gaol. One room in the caltle for debtors: and a dark room for felons &c. under rhe town-hall. 1779, June 7, No prisoners.

1 know not bow to close this account of prisons without making the following observation. In all my jouroies, by night and day, through all the different counties of England (for ten years past) I have never once been flopped, or even known myself in any great danger from robbers. I mention this, (with a devout acknowledgment of a kind providence!) because foreigners in this country generally travel in terror, and often give dismal accounts of the dangers they have encountered.

HULKS

HULKS.

465

HULKS OH THE THAMES.

Ik my first edition (page 75), I parted some censures on the management of convicts committed to hard labour on the Thames; and in a fublcquent visit I was still more convinced of the faults 1 had observed. The effects of these became so alarming, as to attract the notice of parliament. A public inquiry was inftimted, by which it appeared, that from August 1776, when the convicts were first put on board the Justitia, to March 26, 1778, out of six hundred and thirty-two prisoners who had been received, one hundred and seventy-six had died.—It is with pleasure that I can give an account, which will shew in a linking light the behdicial effects of this Parliamentary Inquiry as to the health of the prisoners, and the obligations the public were under to the committee appointed on this occasion, and particularly to its chairman. Sir Charles Banbury.

At my visit, Nov. 16, 1779, there were at Woolwich, for the reception of convicts, an old Indiaman, called the Justitia 5 and a frigate, the Cenjer. ' In the former were two hundred and fifty-six; and in the latter, two hundred and fifty. That which was first called the Justitia, is converted into an hospital ship, in which were twenty patients.—Another, called the Reception, was empty: in this, convicts Were examined by the surgeon, and continued three days, before they were sent either to the hulks, or to the hospital ship.*

The prisoners on board the Justitia looked healchy and well; the decks were clean. They had bedding; their provisions were good of the forts and there were n6t any (as at my former visits) without shoes and (lockings.—-I found the Censer, below deck, cleaner than the Justitia; yet, on carefully viewing the convicts, they had not so healthy and contented an aspect as those in the other; and a much greater proportion of this ship’s company was sent to the hospital. This created in me a suspicion that something was wrong. I examined all their provisions, bedding, 8cc. and found that they were the fame as on board the Justitia. It would be highly proper that a table of their dated allowance should be hung up, and feales, weights, and measures assigned them,f to check thepurfers who give out their provision.J In the jhospital ship, on the two decks (one of which is for recovering patients) were

By the act 19th Gto. III. Cap. LXXIV. p. 1418. f See a good regulation for the prifobCrs of war. Article IX.

1 Pursers weights are known on board ships to be two ounces in a pound short, their tneafures in

3 O twenty-

proportion.

HVLS3.

Hocus.

HULKS.

twenty-five cradles, bat finaller than those in the royal hospitals at Haflar and Plymouth, where all lie single. Of the few who were very lick, I found their irons were off. The deanlinds and quietness of the hospital did honour to the conductor. It is to be wilhed that the patients bad better nouriffunent, as that in many cases would be more salutary than medical prescriptions.

There were about one hundred and fifty at work in the warren in 1779; most of them clothed in a brown uniform. I observed that the fituadon of these unhappy people was altered for the better. Yet their bread allowance of one pound a day was too little, especially for those who worked, although they had an extra allowance of beer.

At my visit, Dec. 27, 1782, the Censor and the Reception were laid up. There were on board the Jufitiu one hundred and eighty convicts, and in the hospital ship twenty-four. Of these, one hundred and sixteen were employed in removing ballad, planking. See. on ihorc, and thirty-six were heaving ballad in the lighters. The hospital ship was very clean; the other not dirty.

Some alteration is made in the bread allowance. The mess of fix men is now 7 lb. The diet table is hung up in the cabin of the Ju/Htia.* I could wilh it were for the ajpeSim of the conviBi, and that feales and weights were provided for them. There should be to each bed in winter an additional blanket.

0&. 19, 1783,t there were on board the Jufiitia one hundred and seventy-two, and in the bajfital ship twenty-two. The men in the Ju/Htia looked well, which I doubt not was in a great measure owing to their being employed, and allb restrained from spirituous and other strong liquors. Of late, but few of them hare died: this Ihews that their situation is better with respect to health: but the aflbeiadon of so many criminals is utterly defiruHive to morals.

A Table of Diee expended by the CtnoiBt on board the Jafiitia hulk duly.

Each mft it for fix men, with seven pounds of bread every day.

Brcakfaft. Every day; a pint of barley or rice made into three quarts of foop.

Dinner. Sunday. Six pounds of salt pork or seven pounds of beef, with five quarts of beer.

--- Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Six pounds of bollock’s head.

- - - Tnesday, Thursday, Saturday. Two pounds of cheese, and five quart) of beer.

Supper. Sunday, Monday, Wednesday, Friday. A pint of pease and barley made into three

quarts of soup.

Taefclxy, Thursday, Saturday. A pint of oatmeal made into burgoc.

+ The Ccofir had one Kindred and thtrty-feten coarifis for oar iettlements; ns*j of whom being sickly objc&j, aid in want of clothes and bedding, I was perfnaded would die in the passage. My mind (everted to the Ftrtmgmje method with their eoatifit for Im£m. (See pmgt 150.) It is, sorely, disgrace-fisl for this nation to he ootdone in hvwaaity and attention to prifoten by so many of oar neighbours.

REMARKS

GAOL-FEVER.

467

R E M A R K S

ON THE

GAOL-FEVER.

I shall take the liberty here to subjoin a few additional remarks on thegaol-fever; Gaol-

in which, if I shall appear to have invaded the province of the gentlemen of the Fevs*.

faculty, I hope to be pardoned, from the consideration that my experience in this matter, may in some respect supply my want of other means of knowledge.

If it were a iked, what is the cause of the gaol-fever ? it would in' general be readily replied, “ the want of fresh air and cleanliness.” But as I have found in some prisons abroad, cells and dungeons as offensive and- dirty as any I have observed in this country, where, however, this distemper was unknown, 'I am obliged to look out for some additional caule for its production. I am of opinion, that the sudden change of diet and lodging so affects the spirits of new coiivicts, that the general causes of putrid fevers exert an immediate effect upon them. Hence it is common to fee them sicken and die in a short time, with very little apparent illness. Convicts are generally (tout robust young men, who have been accustomed to free diet, tolerable lodgings, and vigorous exercise. These are ironed, and thrust into close offensive dungeons, and there chained down, some of them, without Itraw or other bedding; in which they continue, in winter, sixteen or seventeen hours out of the twenty-four, in utter inactivity, and immersed in the noxious effluvia of their own bodies. On this account, the gaol-di(temper is always observed to reign more in our prisons during winter than summer; contrary, I presume, to the nature of other putrid diseases. Their diet is at the same time low and scanty; they are generally without firing; and the powers of life (oon become incapable of refitting so many causes of sickness and despair.

In convocation with the physician to the military bsfpitttl at Mifcow, on my obfetving that the windows of the wards were that; he answered, Almost all onr disorders are in winter, for the RuJJiant " enclose themselves in hot rooms, and dislike the fresh air, even before the cold month) commence.”

3 0a

On

Hnu.

HULKS.

twenty-five cradles, but {mailer than those in the royal hospitals at Haflar and Plymouth, where all lie single. Of the few who were very lick, I found their irons were off. The cleanlinds and quietness of the hospital did honour to the conductor. It is to be wilhed that the patients had better nourishment, as that in many cases would be more faluury than medical prescriptions.

There were about one hundred and fifty at work in the warren in 1779; most of them clothed in a brown uniform. I observed that the situation of these unhappy people was altered for the better. Yet their bread allowance of one pound a day was too little, dpecially for those who worked, although they had an extra allowance of beer.

At my viiit, Dec. 27, 1782, the Catftr and the Reception were laid up. There were on board the Ju/lilia one hundred and eighty convicts, and in the bojpitol ship twenty-four. Of these, one hundred and sixteen were employed in removing ballad, planking, &c. on ihorc, and thirty-six were heaving ballad in the lighters. The hospitei Hup was very clean; the other not dirty.

Some alteration is made in the bread allowance. The mess of fix men is now 7lb. The diet table is hung up in the cabin of the Jufiitia. I could with it were for the iufpetUau of the couviBi, and that feales and weights were provided for them. There fitould be to each bed in winter an additional blanket.

Oct. 19, 1783,7 there were on board the Juiitia one hundred and seventy-two, and in the brjptal ship twenty-two. The men in the Jufiitia looked well, which I doubt not was in a great measure owing to their being employed, and also restrained from spirituous and other strong liquors. Of late, but few of them have died: this ihews that their situation is better with respect to health; but the aflbeiation of lo many criminals is utterly defiruBive to morals.

A Table of Diet expended by the Crroi&t on board the JufHtiu hulk daily.

Each weft is for fat men, with feren pounds of bread every day.

Bmbfafi Every day; a pint of bailey or rice asade into three qaarts of soup-

Diaacr. Sunday. Six poonds of felt peak or fevea pounds of beef, with five qaarts of beer.

— - Monday, Wcdoefilay. Friday. Six pounds of bullock’s Bead.

- - - Tnrlday, Thariday, Saturday. Two poonds of cheese, and five quarts of beer.

Supper. Sunday, Monday, Wednesday, Friday. A pint of pcafe and barley made into three

qaarts of loop.

----- Tocfilay, Thoriday, Saturday. A pint of oatmeal made into burgoo.

+ The Cayir bad one hundred and thirty-feren conviOs for oar feltlements; wunj of whom being sickly objefit, and in want of clothes and bedding, I waa perfnaded would die in the passage. My mind reverted 10 the Fsrngar# method with their conviOs for I*£a. (Seeyegr 150.) It is, forcly, disgrace-frl for this nation to be outdone in humanity and attention to prisoners by so many of our neighbours.

REMARKS

GAOL-FEVER.

4«7

remarks

ON THE

GAOL-FEVER.

I shall take the liberty here to subjoin a few additional remarks on thegaol-fever j in which, if I shall appear to have invaded the province of the gentlemen of the faculty, I hope to be pardoned, from the consideration that my experience in this matter, may in some respect supply my want of other means of knowledge.

If it were alked, what is the cause of the gaol-fever? it would in general be readily replied, “the want of fresh air and cleanliness.” But as I have found in some prisons abroad, cells and dungeons as ofienfive and dirty as any I have observed in this country, where, however, this distemper was unknown, :I am obliged to look out for some additional cause for its production. I am of opinion, that the sudden change of diet and lodging so afiefts the spirits of new convicts, that the general causes of putrid fevers exert an immediate eficft-upon them. Hence it is common to fee them fflcken and die in a Ihorr time, with very little apparent illness. Convicts are generally stout robust young men, who have been accustomed to free diet, tolerable lodgings, and vigorous exercise. These are ironed, and thrust into close ofienfive dungeons, and there chained down, feme of them, without draw’ or other bedding; in which they continue, in winter, sixteen or seventeen hours out of the twenty-four, in utter inactivity, and immersed in the noxious effluvia of their own bodies. On this account, the gaol-distemper is always observed to reign more in our prisons during winter than dimmer; contrary, I presume, to the nature of other putrid diseases. Their diet is at the same time low and scanty; they are generally without firing; and the powers of life soon become incapable of refilling lo many causes of ficknels and despair.

In conversation with the physician to the military bt/pital at Mefcrm, on my observing that the windows of the wards were shot; he answered, “ Almost all oar disorders are in winter, lor the HttJJiaas " eoclofe themselves in hot rooms, and dislike the fresh air, even before the cold months commence.”

3 O a

Gaol-

Fever.

On

468

Gaol-

Ferst.

G A 0 L - J? E V E R.

On my visits in 1779, I found only one person ill of the gaol-fever; he was in Newgate, under sentence of death. In 1782, I did not find a Angle period labouring under that disorder throughout the whole kingdom. But in 1783, when the prisons became crowded from the peace, I was lorry to observe, that through the original faulty construction of many of them, and the want of attention in magistrates properly to inspect them, and enforce the orders of the act for preserving the health of prisoners, they were beginning to return to their former wretched state.

Several instances of alarming and fatal sickness in gaols have since been communicated to me; some of which I have noted in their proper places. I have to remark, however, that it appears doubtful to me, whether, in some of these, the disorder was the proper gaol-fever, produced in and peculiar to such situations; or an epidemic disease, which attacked prisoners only in common with other inhabitants of the fame town. It cannot be expected that gaols should be preserved free from such visitations as these; it is only to be hoped, that care and attention will be used, to prevent the disease from becoming more malignant and fatal in these, than in other places.*

It may not be improper here to pmt persons on their gaud against an artifice not unfrequently prafitiled by gaolers, in order to prevent a proper examination of their prisons. When a gentleman, particaluly a magistrate, has come with an intention to visit the gaol, the keeper has pretended the ntmost willingnefi to accompany him, but at the lame time has artfully dropt a hint that he feus there may be some danger in it, as he is apprehensive that the fever has made its appearance among them. The visitor, alarmed, returns thanks for the kind caution, and iafiandy leaves the house.—On such occasionsl have always the more infified on the necefSty of a clofefinfpeAiou; and have generally found the pril'on very dirty, indeed, and out of order, but no fever.

CONCLUSION.

C ON t L.U S I 0 N.

CONCLUSION.

I t was once my intention to have published the preceding account of Eogliih prisons, without any of the introdu&ory matter which composes the former part of this volume. But thinking, from a close attention to the subject, that it was in my power in some instances to suggest remedies to the evils of which I had been witness; and aware of the common proverbial objection “ that it is easier to find faults than to mend themI imagined 1 should be culpable in suppressing any thing which might conduce to improvement in a matter I had so much at heart.

A person of more ability, with my knowledge of fails, would have written better: but the object of my ambition was not the fame of an author. Hearing the cry of the miserable, I devoted my time to their relief. In order to procure it, I made it my business to collect materials, the authenticity of which could not be dilputet}. For the warmth of some expressions where my subject obliges me to complain, and for my eagerness to remove the several grievances, my apology mult be drawn from the deep iijlrefi of the sufferers, and the impression the view of it made upon me— An impression too deep to be effaced by any length of time!

What I have proposed throughout my work is liable, I am sensible, to some ob-jedionsj and these will, doubtless, be heightened by the cavils of those whose interest it is to prevent the reformation of abuses on which their ease or emolument may depend. Yet I hope not to be entirely deserted in the conflict: and if this publication should be the means of exciting the attention of my countrymen to this important national concern—of alleviating the distresses of poor debtors and other prisoners—of procuring for them cleanly and wholesome abodes j and exterminating the gaol-fever, which has lb often Ipread abroad its dreadful contagion—of abolishing, or at leail reducing, the oppressive fees of clerks of assize, and of the peace—of preventing the sale of liquors in prisons—of checking the impositions of gaolers, and the extortions of bailiffs—of introducing a habit of industry into our . bridewells; and restrainiqg the Blocking debauchery and immorality which prevail in our gaols and other prisons—if any of these beneficial consequences shall accrue, the writer will be happy in the pleasing reflection that he has not lived without doing some good to his fellow-creatures j and will think himself abundantly repaid for all the pains he has taken, the time he has spent, and the hazards he has encountered.

TABLES.

47®

TABLES.

TABLE. L

GENERAL HEADS OF REGULATIONS

iar

PENITENTIARY HOUSES

o

HOUSES OF CORRECTION.

Should the design of eroding Houses of Correction on an enlarged and improved plan, /bailor to that in the excellent A3 19th George III. drawn up by Sir William Blartfaar and Mr. EAea, be carried into execution; it will be a most important object to frame a let of regulations for their proper government. In order to facilitate the consideration of this point, I have put down under a few general beads, those circumstances which appear to me most deferring of attention; examples of which, carried into practice, may be found in different parts of my book.

I shall in the first place, however, declare my opinion, that no regulations will, in reality, be executed with due care and attention, if these houses are not erected Jo near the Metropolis or other capital towns, as to be easily acttJfibU by those who may be entrusted with the inspection of them. And this appears to me a matter of so much consequence, as to overbalance every consideration which might be supposed to render a different situation more eligible.

SECURITY.

Situation—contrivance of the building—lodging up stairs or over arcades—clothes of two colours —turn-fMes and low gates—alarm-bell—double doors, one iron-latticed-high wall surrounding— number and disposition of turnkeys—military guard if necessary—gaoler’s windows looking on the yard—collar, ring, or somewhat of that kind to be worn for discovery on escapes—times of opening and Shutting up to be ftriSly obfetved—caution in admitting vifilets—only CO be admitted at certain times—not many at once—to be searched for tools, spirituous liquors. Sic.

HEALTH.

TABLES.

47«

HEALTH.

Frefli and sweet air—open windows and apertures for a thorough draught of air—prisoners made to go out and air theoifelres at proper times—privies properly fituated—the sewers spacious.

Cltanlm/i. I. The prisoners persons—ufe of baths at admission and other times—to wafll before meals—water in the courts and wards—towels, links, See. in proper placet—heads fliaved —encouragements to the moll cleanly.

2. Their clothes—linen clean, how often—other clothes—bedding—beds brought out and beat.

3. The Houle—walking and sweeping of cells—work-rooms—ftaircales—galleries Sc.—fewers— drains—yards—plenty of water—waite water through the privies—fcraping the Walls—lime-whited twice a year.

DIET.

Provisions, quantity—and quality—proportioned to work—difference in Cummer and winter-hot provisions daily—breakfaft—dinner—supper—what ?—manner of dividing and Blaring—hours of meals—allowance in weight—inspectors of provision—house weights—liquor what—measure of—prisoners allowed to purchase, what—and when.

CLOTHING.

A prison uniform—materials—colour, &c.—linen provided—dockings—fhoes, tec.

LODGING.

Separate cell for each prisoner—fexes separated—linen, and bedding—what—difference in Cummer and winter—upon barrack-beds—or iron—or wooden bedsteads—flues or stoves to Warm the cells in winter-time allotted for sleep.

FIRING.

Fuel what kind and quantity—when and how long—fires, where to be made—stoves—flues, tec.

RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION AND MORALS.

Chaplain, his duty—what and when—private admonitions to young offenders—catechiling— chapel—manner of placing the prisoners in—persons to overlook their behaviour—reward and punishment for behaviour at—vifitors dismissed at service time—prisoners reading chapters or prayers —Bibles, books provided—grace at meals—no gaming—or drinking—ministers of different persuasions allowed.

EMPLOYMENT.

Proportioned to strength—and to degree of criminality—hours of—kinds of—within doors and without doors—number working together—talks—mere labour—or manufactures requiring ingenuity—the labour of each distinguishable from that of another—working at their own trades— clothing, dec. of the house made by prisoners—waffling—baking—proportion of profit to be allowed to prisoners.

Wholesomenefs of an employment—ready sale of manufacture—conveyance of raw materials and manufacture—tools required, not dangerous ones—returned at night.

REWARDS.

47*

TABLES.

REWARDS.

Shortening term of confinement—work lighter or mote agreeable—order of being served at meali-better provision—degree of liberty allowed—cells mote convenient—profit of work—distribution of charity—advance into a-higher clafs—money given at discharge—clothes given at discharge— a iliaiaflrt at discharge.

PUNISHMENTS.

Abridgment of dir*- r cornier kind—hard or disagreeable work—marks of disgrace; wearing collar, fcc.—ftripes—term lengthened, on attempts to escape—(hutting up the refractory in strong rooms—folitary confinement and work.

TREATMENT OF SICK.

An infirmary—medical attendance—medicines freer allowance of diet, wine, bark, itc.—clean lire n ficlh air—onifea, number of—precautions against infection—fumigation—clothes exposed to fire—in an oven—or buried loom for convakfceuts—gradual return to usual diet and labour.

PROCEEDINGS ON DEATH OF PRISONERS.

Coroner—jury how compofid—funeral—without the precincts — how attended—expence allowed for.

GOVERNMENT OF PRISON.

iitpjbeia. To visit at proper periods—without previous notice—to fee and examine all priJboen fcpaiatcly—to fix rewards or punishmentt—a room for in the prison.

ImfptBers. By whom appointed—their duty—time of continuance in office—how often to vifit— ak unexpected times—to view the whole prison, and hear prisoners complaints—to examine and weigh provisions—to esquire the conduct of prisoners and represent proper objects for favour-attendance at chapel—no fidary—but some honorary distindions.

GatUr. His duty—inspedion of complaints against admitted—obliged to constant rciidence— allowed no profit in provisions, liquor, &c.—faiary of—manner of choosing him—no rent or taxes to pay—no fees, or private emoluments from prisoners.

Malm. Salary of—duty.

Tarafeyr, number of—by whom appointed—fidary—their office.

ManMfa&mrcr. Salary of—duty.

TajkmajltT. Salary of—duty.

REGULATIONS MADE KNOWN.

Tables hung up—intelligibly drawn up—of the duty of officers—of keepers—of prisoners—Of hours of opening and (hutting—of work—of behaviour of prisoners to keeper, &c.—of tV/HfAs and punish-ments—of attendance on divine service—of diet—where hung—how made known—painted on a board—printed and given to each prisoner—to be read at certain times—by chaplain—or keeper.

TABLE

TABLES.

473

TABLE I!.

Regulations for Prisoners of War in England, &c.

L)e par les Commissaires pour le Soin des Malades & des Blesses de la Marine, et pour 1'Echange des Prisonniers de Guerre*

R E G L E S que tons les Prisonniers de Guerre, dans la Grande Bretagne, et Vlrlsndtj

doivent observer.

I. T ES ordres donnes par I’Agenc, aiant foin des prisonniers, doivent etre ©bferves fans replique

X-j ou dispute. Qu’aucun des prisonniers ofe infulter, menacer, maltralter, 8c encore moins frapper le guichetier, ni personne par 1*Agent employe aux affaires de la prison, Tons peine de la punition qu’ordonneront Meifieurs les Commissaires, et de perdre leur tour d’etre ©changes; d'etre etroitement enferaes, et prives de la men tie de leur vivres.

II. Tous les prisonniers, lors que l'agent en fera la revue, repondront a leurs noms; et fi dans la liste donnee i l'agent qbelque erreur fe trouve, ils I’indiquerotu, afin de la corriger; et ainsi prevenir la eonfnsion qui refulteroit des meprifes des noms.

III. Tous les prisonniers refufants de repondre a tears noms a la revfie, feront punis par la privation de leurs vivres, jufqu' 1 ce qu'ils s'y foumettent.

IV. S'U arrive du doomage aux lieu ou les prisonniers feront gardes, soit en voulant s'echapper, ou autrement, de prppos delibere; les frais de la reparation feront payes des vivres de ceux qui auront ainsi contrevena; et fi le* coupables ne peuvent etre decouverts, tous les prisonniers ensemble contribueront de leurs vivres, aux frais de cette reparation.

V. Quiconque s'echappera de prison, etant repris, y fera mis au cachot; et n'y aura que denitration de vivres, jufqu* a ce qu'il aura ainsi paye les frais falls pour le saisir et le ramener; et de plus il perdra son tour d'eebange; un officier ainsi contrevenant, fera dcs-lors regard© et traite comme

simple matelot.

VI. II eft defendu de fe battre, fe quereller, ou faire defordre dans les prisons, ou aux endroits

ou il fera permis aux prisonniers de prendre l'air, fous peine de pumtion felon qoe 1’offeoce l'exigera.

VII. Les prisons feront tenues nettes & propres par les matelots, et cela tour a tour, comme l'agent l'ordonnera; & tout matelot qui refu fera ce service a son tour, & qui en aura etc averti, fera prive de fes vivres jusque* a ce qu'il s'y foumette.

VIII. Les prisonniers doivent informer l'ageflt, des hordes, ou autres choses dont ils peuvent avoir besoin, et pour lesquels ils auroat dequoi payer; et l'agent a.ordre non feulement de peraettre qu'ils en soient foarnis, mais aofii d'avoir un foin tout particulier, qu'on ne leor en xmpofe dans les prix.

3P

IX.

♦74

TABLES.

IX. Date ckaqae fnfoa 1« prilbouen pourront nommer trob, on cing d’entre eu, et les changer quad il kw plain, poor Pexamen da vhrres; afin de voir *’ils font boos. Sc $’ils ont lenr radon, soit poor !e pends, /bit poor la mefare; fnivant la table d’avitoaillement ci-deffoas. Et s'il fe trouve qnelqne fojet de plainte, soit for la maniere de les appretcr, servir, on dans qnelqn*antre chose; ils doireat, xvec bienfeance, le Zaire /avoir a l'agent; qni, trourant la plainte fondee, doit immedia> tenent y mettre ordre. S’il le neglige. Us dmvent en avertir Meffieon les Commissaires, qni ne aanqneront pas de lew rendre jaftice, a tons egards.

X. Les bondqaiers (excepte eeox qni trafiquent dam des choses qn'U ne convient pas de vendre a des prisonniers) feront permis de rester a la grande porte, depnis dix henres dn matin jufqu* a trois heores de l’apres midi, poor vendre lew merchandises, a tels prisonniers, qni font en foods pour les payer for le champ.

XI. Cdai d’entre les prisonniers qni ofera par ce moyen procurer des liqueurs, on autre choses &ca. qni ne convienaent pas a on prisonnier devoir, on qni recevra, ou livrcra aucune lettre, fera pnni de l*abns qn’U aura hit de cette indnlgence.

TABLE D*AVTTUAILLEMENT.

JtWTl. Bierxe. Pain. Baof. Benrre. Frontage. pois.# Sel.

Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mecredi Jeadi Vendredi Samedi stud Quarts. 1 1 I 1 1 I 1 Utts*. >T It li li <T Ihra. i T 3 T 3 T 3 T 3 T T Ones. 4 Ones, nr 6 Prats. a T a T a Y a T Ones. T a T a T T a T t T T

7 i<4 4t 4 6 1 2 *f

On na Ime de ben chon duena.

TABU

TABLES,

475

TABLE HI.

A List of Fees due to the Clerks of Assize of the several Circuits in England, and their Officers, from Prisoners charged with Felony—Burnt in the Hand-Whipped—Acquitted—Discharged by Proclamation—or against whom Bills are returned by the Grand Jury not true Bills.

HOME CIRCUIT, Burnt in the hand .... £ O s. 4 D. 8

Whipped .... O 8

Acquitted . - O 8 4

Discharged by proclamation - O 8 4

Recording every ignoramus in felony - O 6 4*

NORFOLK CIRCUIT,

Acquittal and order of delivery in murder . - 1 8 O

The like in all other felonies ... - . I l 4

Order of delivery on proclamation - - 0 <5 8

Ditto on ignoramus bill ... - - 0 >3 4

MIDLAND CIRCUIT,

Acquittal and discharge fee in murder - - t 7 8

The like in all other felonies ... - . I 6 8

Discharge fee on recording ignoramus bill - - 1 0 0

Discharge fee on proclamation - - 0 i 4

OXFORD CIRCUIT,

For every prisoner acquitted of felony on one indiflment discharged - 0 I? 8

For every acquittal after the Srft - - 0 8 8

For every prisoner discharged by proclamation - - 0 9 0

Guilty burnt in the hand or whipped and discharged - - 0 *4 0

WESTERN CIRCUIT,

Acquittal including plea and discharge - - I *io 8

Ignoramus ijj. and discharge 13s. - I 6 8

Discharge by proclamation ... - - 0 ij 4

Conviction in manslaughter ... - 0 *7 4

NORTHERN CIRCUIT, Not guilty discharged ... . _ 1 5 4

Discharged by proclamation - - - 0 >4 8

« We present this at a very hard and unrtasonable fee to be executed and taken of a person who mart be fopposed (by the Bill being found Jgnoramut) to be innocent of the charge alledged against him In such a bill and therefore in our opinion la 11 not to be joftified.” _ .... , . . , __

Report of tit MajeJtft Commijpontrt appointed to mfuire into tbt epeert and thetrfttt or. of the Carts within the HomtXircnH. Doted Dtc. xfi, 1735. M. S. page xi.

3 P

TABLE

'An Account of the Number of Prisoners Tried and Acquitted—of Prisoners Convicted IFbiffed and Discharged—and of Prisoners Discharged by Proclamation—at the fevera] within the Oxford Circuit for Seven Years ending at Michaelmas 1771.

u at Discharged by Proclamation. U*\ hi 03 IN. 1 R

at Whipped and Discharged. - - - ' 1

H M Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - M ' - - 1

O J O Not Guilty Discharged. N. sO O O N 11

ii u Discharged by Proclamation. 1 - - 1

ut w at Whipped and Discharged. 1 1.

I Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. ' 1 1

6 Not Guilty Discharged. N N - - - N 1 O'

w Discharged by Proclamation. t/t N SO IS O fN. fN 1 i

2 U1 Whipped and Discharged. M *t ' - 1 w

H hi Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. N N - ' - - 1

at £ Not Guilty Discharged. OO N N IN. OQ 1 do

w Discharged by Proclamation. t*i l/> m «o t/t a* 1 S'

Whipped and Discharged. - N - ' 1

at O Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. t ' 1 1 '

H O Not Guilty Discharged. 00 *0 = IN H"t I so 1

Discharged by Proclamation. O' K - M IS

at 8 Whipped and Discharged. ' - ' I

M at Burnt in tho Hand and Discharged. II - fl 1

m Not Guilty Discharged. 0 = O O U

i a sp s r- 1 -sO 1 - 00 R & |-S R I'. In In 2

v©

S

Ji. B. Tbls table u to be read across from one page to the other.

TABLES.

477

IV.

and Sentenced to be Burnt in the Hand and Difcbarged—of Prisoners Sentenced to be Assizes and General Gaol-Deliveries held in and for the several Counties and Cities

CityofG LOCESTER. Monmouthshire.

CO 09

s e

0 1 0 s u

z 0 0 S' 0 ? sr 0 4 z 0 0 S* 9* ft 3 tr *5" *9 ? 0 3

c X ft. e

*5 0 a § O’ *< s 0 a cr

0 0 9 0 t 0 O 0 9 a y 3

n* ft. n*

61 ere s. O $ 0* 0 0 (re 0. 3 0 ' o‘ 9 0 ore n a. & tr 0 Sr £ r* Cu 3 0 % 9

ore >3

a. 0.

s - - - 7 1 - 2

- - - 2 Z - - I

- - - - 3 - - 2

- - 2* 6 - 2

I - - - 7 I - 3

I - - 3 5 - - 4

2 - - - 5 - - 6

6 - - 7 55 3 - 20

Herefordshire.

2

o

o 5"

5: iB

S’

>3

io

9

7 6 IS

8

*T3

*o

t

°s

0*

68 s

6

3

io

- S

- 2

- 3

4

- 33

Shropshire.

f ,

o

& K

IO 5

16

it i

io 3

IE I

'+ I

4 -

77 "

s- S

- >4

- 4

8

3

4 3 ii

5

7 49

Staffordshire.

s

3

Z 3

o

~ 3*

C3 "

e. as

5*

tt n ft*

22 4

20 5 22

IO I

7 -

20 2

112 II 5 45

Ttatu

1763

1766

1767

1768

1769

1770

1771

Tati

7tial. Not Guilty Discharged . - 615

Bvmt in the Hand and Discharged - 47

Whipped and Discharged . - a8

Discharged by Proclamation - . 293

Great Tttal

table

47*

TABLES.

TABLE V.

HOME CIRCUIT.

Total Account of Prisoners Burnt in the Hand—Whipped—Acquitted—Difebarged ty Proclamation—or against whom Bills have been returned Not found—in the Counties of Hertford, Essex, Kent, Sussex and Surrey, for seven Years, from the Year 1764 to 1770 Inclusive.

03 O eO w

a 5* 3; ar > A A 3 2- a- g

£ X *1 fi. 0 p. Li 6 Tefal.

5 X O.

Hertford 9 .* 36 47 3* 136

Essex *4 35 7* 62 3» *3

Kekt 75 20 >3* 9« 34 33*

Sussex 11 5 *5 l6 4 69

Surrey 4° >4 77 *4 *79

Tefal 59 96 5s6 *93 *5 *°S9

table

47 J

to

w

CQ

CS}

*4

o

v*> ,

r>* b

M M

n u a:

0

fi X

W *3

So

a.

O R<

Os © fc

8 JS

o

C c

& ~ O O

> CO

s *s

tt a

*53 o Z V

6 is -S

‘p* w *-,*; «a v

-a v*

£ £ C

.1

I

- i"

*v s*.

U § *"

A

« S'

*S?

« S e c t—i

§ §

u b*

O

-O 4.1

-*f- N «w N N

O On \Q On s 4 w N M o

Sentenced to Transportation. £'S>$g'£5,'S,'3-fcS'ft? !f J 1 ¥ S Seven other Crimes.

Petty Larceny.

Grand Larceny.

Reprieved for Transportation. ! ? S 8 t"5 1 ¥ ¥: + S ? li

Executed.

Condemned to Death*

Six other Crimes.

Returning from Transportation.

i

M

N td no n

O M — NO fA N w'O N

in iO N wi

N f Ifl N

N - N

>0

Forgery.

Horse-stealing &c. 09'°ITI!IxNN - 00 N

Robbery in Highway and Dwelling.

OS . w> N N *» VO f*> rr.

Burglary andHouse-breaking. m no rr-, .<*- o n Nco n Petty Treason and Murder. *> n

>A CO '* * M* O xt'MO H-

44 m " IA

^ vo On w

M l M I M

o * N fs.00 OvO - N WI + 'A IO *-»oo On O "

iaUniaiaiaiai^iamwCIO'O'O'O'O'O'OIO'O K S NNKNKtsNNNNNtN*' K *- t- t- e- k

NNNSf\NKKf>

N I 4-I fn v«P

M I 4-

I VO

I s

N

- J

- I

» I

I N

{N»

J

w

*2

Cfi

b

48o

T A B L

E -S.

T A B X, E VII.

An Account of the-Number of Criminals Condemned to Death; Executed-, and Sentenced to Transportatio*: with their respective Offences: from the Year 1750 to 1772 Indufive; within the several Counties &c. in the Midland Circuit.

-3 2 2 SO _x = S § Cfl 0 e £L« *3 3? 2 2 W X 0 O 0 3 a. a 3 PJ a§ sa

n S» ©> 3 li 3 O o* 3* a v< s *2. ST *5: cr n 3r ? 5* OQ 5* 9 0? 2. o' n °* m (t S'3 3 S' Pi A n §' 0 3 A a. 0 O A B* 5* A O S A a. silt a s J rf-s 1 a 3>u 111’

1750 . - 6 4 3 l6 - - 2 32 5 50

75* - 1 4 5 3 - - - <3 3 47

752 - 1 2 - 16 - - 3 *3 3 45

*753 - - 8 1 1 >7 - *9 1 58

754 - 3 1 - 20 - - 4 29 4 63

'755 - 2 4 2 3- IO - 4 *3 6 44

1756 2 - 4 *7 - 4 3° 6 44

757 - - 2 3 4 - 2 - 22 4 60

00 - 1 5 5 - 9 - 4 35 6 54

>759 - + 4 - 6 3 3* 9 43

l“6o - 1 - - 12 - - 1 5 2 3*

1761 2 3 1 6 - - 1 15 5 28

ij6z - £ - - - 8 J - 1 j 4 *3

1763 - 1 4 1 9 3 I 3 *3 '4 45

1764 - 3 6 1 >4 - - 1 25 11 6}

1765 - 3 4 5 1 9 - - 22 7 62

1766 - 1 4 2 4 12 - 3 26 4 63

1767 - 2 4 6 - 11 - - - *3 6 45

1768 - - 2 2 I '7 1 - - *3 2 49

1769 - 2 5 I - IO - - s *3 6 37

1770 - 2 3 - 1 6 - - >4 4 45

177* - - 3 - 6 - - 1 9 2 36

1772 - 1 5 2 - 11 - - I 20 2 21

Tala! 4 30 80 49 20 279 8 6 4* ll6 io?7

TABLE

TABLES.

481

TABLE VIII.

Felons delivered from Newgate to be Transported.

►0 0 5 O

tr* s X n’ 3

0 p. rt

Sessions. 0- 0 9 gL 5* o' X s’s Hall. 3 S* CO =1 0 3 73 n "Ei Total.

1773. January IO 9 3 6 . - 38

February s 24 9 - 41

April 16 24 <9 *4 - 20 93

May IQ 29 *4 - 53

July 4 49 6 5 - - 74

September 11 24 9 - - 44

October 10 17 8 6 - . 41

December 10 1; 9 ' - - *7 51

89 201 77 3' - 37 43 s"

1774. January 4 18 3 - - 25

February 16 33 7 3 1 - 60

April >5 2+ >7 >3 I - 70

May 6 22 2 - - - 30

July H 22 12 8 4 30 9°

September 22 16 10 - 2 1 S'

October 8 8 6 5 I - 28

December H 22 16 - >3 66

99 i65 73 29 10 44 420

177$. January 9 29 14 9 - - 61

February 9 20 7 - 2 - 38

April 19 '7 12 4 - - S2

May 5 9 2 - - - 16

July 6 11 7 5 - 20 49

September 1+ 20 6 - - - 40

October 9 10 7 4 - 3Z

December 8 9 7 - > 11 36

79 62 22 5 31 3*4

30.

Great Total 1179

TABLE

482

TABLES.

TABLE IX.

Abstract of Sir Stephen Theodore Janssen’s Table of Criminals Condemned-, Executed-, and Pardoned, at the Old Bailey, London, from the Year 1749 to 1771 both Indufive.

Peace 1749 Cndemned. 61 Executed. 44 Pardemed&c. >7

1750 84 56 28

'75* »; 63 22

>75* 52 47 5

«753 57 4« l6

*754 5° 34 16

>755 39 21 18

Place 7 +28 — 305 122

H V1756 30 13 '7

War J

JTar 1757 57 26 11

.7,-8 3* 20 12

t759 *5 6 9

1760 4 10 4

1761 22 17 s

1762 25 5 10

War

id £ .753 6l 32 29

Peace 3 236 '39 97

Pout *764 Sz I1 21

1763 4* 26 '5

1766 39 20 9

1767 49 22 27

1768 54 27' 27

1769 71 34 47

1770 9* 49 42

*77* 60 34 z6

Tail 457 1121 *33 678 224 443

Table

TABLES.

4*3

Table IX. CentimuJ.

The respeHivi Offences.

X o s:

S 3. 6 P V 3 X £ % 1 I

5 S£ 3*

d» o»

Sentenced to Death - 8i 208 362 90

ExtcuttJ 7* i l8 25* 22

Pardoned, Transported, 68

or died in Gaol 5 9 90 in

dJ?

? 1 Coining. 3- !i it og If 11 09 s I 0 - 2" t? 7W.

?-s

95 11 3* 3 24O 1121

71 to it 3 IO9 678

24 1 9 0 31 443

Of the hundred and twenty Se/Eons in the fifteen Years of Peace (eight in a Year) only one was Maiden; in 174.9—Of the sixty-four Sessions in the eight Years of War, aim were Maiden.

Sir Stephen intending a list only of those -who were condemned to die, has not in his table a column for transport convidb. But at the bottom of the (beet he notes that there were

Transported for seven or fourteen years ... 5199

To which number he adds

Transported by the King’s mercy (after receiving sentence of death) 401

Tetai Transpms 5600

The second number of transports 401 is, doubtless, part of the number 443, the last of the three totals above.

When I referred to this Table in page 9, I mentioned that the Copper-plate was in my poiTeSion. I now add, that if any Gentleman, who has leisure and inclination to study the subject, is desirous of a copy, one is much at his service.

3 CL*

T A B t E

484

TABLES

TABLE X.

Number. of Convicts Executed, for London and Middlesex, during the last Twelve Years.*

Murder. Coiners. Various Crims. Rioters. Total,

Men. Women Men. Women. Men. Women. Men. Women.

Frem Dec. 1771 to Dec. 1772, 3 - 2 - 3= -

Dec. 1772 to Dec. 1773, t I burnt 1 - 29 -

Dec. 1773 to Dec. 1774* - 1 - - 3* -

Dec. 1774 to Dec. 1773, 1 1 3 - 40 1 - -

Dec. 1775 to Dec. 1776, 6 - 8 - 24 -

Dec. 1776 to Dec. 1777, z - 1 - z9 - -

Dec. 1777 to Dec. 1778, X. - 1 - 31 -

Dec. 1778 to Dec. 1779, - - % I burnt 9 I - -

Dec. 1779 to Dec. 1780, 1 - 2 - *4 t >9 3

Dec. 1780 to Dec. 1781, 1 - 1 - 33 s - -

Dec. 1781 to Dec. 1782, - - - - 4+ I - -

Dec. 1782 to Dec. 1783, - - 6 - 52 I - -

16 3 *7 1 388 10 9 3

Thistable, together with grvet the total nsmb^ of aueatkei for thirty-fire years past.

37

32

32

46

38 3Z

33 z3 5° 40

4S

59

467

TABLE

T A B L

E S.

485

TABLE XI.

An Account of the Number of Prisoners convicted of Capital Crimes in Scotland* from 1 ft January 1768 to 1 ft May 1782.

This mark denotes a person pardoned; the refi were executed.

Northern Circuit. Southern Circuit. Western Circuit.

Edin- burgh. Abii- n Perth. BEEN. Inver- ness J‘°' Dom' Ayr. BURGH. PRIES. Glas- Stir- GOW. LING Crime!.

1768 1769 1770 *77* 1771 *773 <774 *775 1776 *777 1778 *779 1780 1781 1781 I - —f- - - - - torgery.

'* _ . - - - > . Hmfe. Healing. Murder and Robbery.

2 I I - - 1 -: - - Murder. Street-robbery. Forgery, House-breaking and Theft. Sheep-rtealing.

1 1: #I :. Robbery. Murder. House-breaking and Theft. 1 heft.

l 1: *2: Child-murder. Horse-ftcaling. House-breaking and Theft.

1 z 2 1 X *1 *2 I -; I «I House-breaking and Theft. Sheep-stealing. Murder and Robbery. Horse-stealing. Murder. Robbing the Mail. Theft, Robbery, tec. Robbery. House-breaking and Robbery.

*3 *1 j 1 l 1 1; 1 Murder. Returning from Transportation. Horse-stealing. Sheep-stealing. House-breaking and Theft. Theft of Cattle. Rape.

. 1 _ . . . 1 _ Murder. Theft.

2 I 1 . I -: ' Robbery. Child-murder. Shop-breaking and Theft. Murder. Theft. Stealing a Letter from Poll Office.

- - - - t Child-murder.

- 1 - - - Thett of Cattle.

* * I - . 1 - -I Murder. Murder and Robbery.

2 a 1 1 - - t j . Robbery. Shop-breaking. Forgery. House-breaking and Theft* Murder by Poison. Theft from Post Office.

1 1 1: : 1 *a 1; Robbery. Theft from Post Office. House-breaking and Theft.

1 1 ’ 1 - . _ , ' Sheep-Healing. Robbery.

3a . 9 *3 5 2 3 9 9 5 3 2 5 3 1 1 4 1 3 9 1 5 a I a 76 "Total Condemned, sz Pardoned. g4 Executed.

TABLE

486

tables.

table XII.

As Account of the Number of Prisoners in the Gaols and Prisons of England and Wales, at the Time they were visited in 1779, and 1782.

As (bine County gaols are also the county bridewells* where petty offenders are not always Separated front films; in those places I sometimes indode petty offenders under the article felons &e. The reason of my diitingnishing the t»w debtors, is to ihew that a room or two (appropriated by the magistrates) in the gaoler’s honfe may probably be fofficient for them, indead of a separate ward, as proposed in my general plan for a coantv gaol {edit, j.)—In this table I have omitted mentioning all those prisons in erLich, at the times of my vifidng in those two years, there were no perfoos confined* Where a blank is left opposite a name, it significs that the prison was not visited that year.

1779-

1782.

Debtors. Felons Petty Debtors. Felons Petty

Abingdon Men. 1 Woo. O tee. Offenders. O O . . Men. O Worn. I See. Offenders. 3 0

Bridewell O O O 3 - - O O O 3

Amur 7 I 2 O - - 6 2 O 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 0 - - 0 O 0 1

Atluiot 6 0 12 O - - >9 1 6 0

Bridewell O 0 0 3 - - 0 O O 2

O 0 O 4

Beriing 0 0 O 1 - - 0 O O 3

Basford 2 0 O O

Bmtb 10 0 O 2 - - 3 O O 5

Bettley 7 1 O O - *5 O O 0

Beacmaiis 4 0 I O - 6 I I 0

Bada 0 0 0 9 - - 0 O O 15

Bedtoid 7 0 2 O - - 7 O 3 0

Bridewell O 0 O 2 - - 0 O O 4

Town O 0 O O - - 0 O O 1

Berkeley O 0 O O - - 0 O O 1

Berkkmmfend O 0 O I - - 0 O O 0

Berwick 2 0 O O - - 2 O O 0

Bmrltj O 0 O 1 - - 0 O 0 1

Town 2 0 0 O - - 0 O 0 0

Hall-garth 1 0 O O - - 2 O 0 0

BzrmxMghaM O 0 O 8 - - 0 O 0 3

Court prison - - 1 2 0 0

Bmdmim O 0 O >3 - - 12 2 4 8

Sheriff’s Ward 12 1 0 0

Bejtom O 0 2 0 - - O O 0 0

Bradford 11 I O 0 - - 6 I O 0

Bkecox J 0 3 O - 0 1 2 O

*5 4 22 47 89 11 9 57

Bkecox

tables,

487

1779-

Debtors. Felons Petty

Men. Worn. &e. Offenders.

Brecon Bridewell 0 0 O O

Bristol 6 9 O

Bridewell 0 O 0 8

Lawford's-gate 0 0 O 5

Buntingford 0 0 0 I

Bury St. Edmund* 18 0 5 O

Bridewell 0 0 0 2

Cambridge 20 1 2 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 7

Town 1 0 2 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 6

Canterbury 2 0 2 O

Bridewell 0 0 0 4

Cardiff 2 I 0 0

Town 1 0 0 0

Cardigan 1 I 0 0

Carlisle 32 0 XI 0

City 2 I a 0

Carmarthen 13 I 8 0

Town O 0 1 0

Carnarvon s 0 1 0

Cheluseo.o 34 0 7 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 27

Chester 18 1 4 O

City 6 I s 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 I

Chesterfield Bridewell' 0 0 O I

Cirencester 0 0 O 6

Clare 0 0 O X

Celchtfter 0 0 4 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 I

Coventry 5 0 4 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 I

Ctywbridge 0 0 0 2

Dartford 0 0 0 5

Derby 12 0 6 0

Town 0 0 O 0

Devizes I 0 O >4

Dolgelly 3 0 2 0

Doncaster 0 0 O 0

Dorchester *4 0 6 0

Town gaol

Dover Castle 3 0 O 0

Town 1 0 I 0

Durham 12 2 22 0 - -

247 >5 112 92

1782.

Debtors. Men. Worn, Felons &c. Petty Offenders.

O O 0 1

27 6 3* 0

O O O 9

O O O 6

O O O I

4 2 II O

O O O O’

3 2 3 O

O O O 8

2 O O O

O O O 3

I O 2 0

0 O 5 6

16 O s O

1 O O O

3 O O I

2$ 2 9 O

0 O O O

*3 2 2 I

2 0 I 0-

3 0 0 O

28 0 9 O

O 0 O 28

9 3 5 O

S 0 I 0

O 0 O 3

O 0 0 3

O 0 I 2

0 0 0 O

I 0 3 O

O 0 O 3

8 0 2 O

0 0 O 4

0 0 0 2

0 0 0 5

‘3 0 9 3

4 0* 2 O

I 4 0 *3

7 I 2 O

I 0 O O

7 0 8 O

I 0 0 O

2 0 0 O

I 0 0 3

18 2 *9 o-

249 24 43 ,27

Dut

488

TABLES.

1779 1781.

Debtor*. Men. Wear Fdoai Petty tec. Offenders. Debtors. Men- Worn. Felons Petty &c. Offenders.

DvtBiM Bridewell o O 0 9 - - O 0 0 8

w 7 O 1 0 - - 4 0 2 0

Bridewell o O 0 2 - - 0 0 0 3

Exetee o O 33 0 - - 0 0 zs 0

Sheriff’s Ward 35 1 0 0 - - 21 2 0 0

Bridewell o O 0 z7 - - 0 0 0 43

City 2 O 2 O - - 3 0 I 0

Flirt I O . 3 O - - 9 0 3 0

Ftlhagbrnm O O 0 2 - - 0 0 0 2

Gein/hrtmgb o O 0 5 - - 0 0 0 4

Clocestee 5 I *4 0 - - 33 S 38 0

City 1 O 1 0

Gtfpert o O 0 9 - - 0 0 0 3

Gadldferd o O O 3 - - O 0 0 3

Halifax 5 O 0 0 - - 7 0 0 0

Half tad o O 0 5 - O 0 0 0

Haverfordwest I O 2 0 - - 6 0 0 0

Town o I O 0 - - I 0 0 0

Henley - - O 0 0 4

Hereford 18 1 9 0 - - 23 0 6 0

Bridewell - - 0 0 O 4

City 4 O O 0 - - 0 0 O 0

HttTFOtD f O <7 0 - - 10 0 9 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 1 - - t 0 0 3

Hetcbin o 0 0 0 - - 0 0 0 3

Horshau tz 0 6 0 - - 16 0 7 0

BmU 8 0 1 0 - - 7 0 4 ' 0

Bridewell o 0 0 11 - - 2 0 0 4

Hcxtikcdok to I >4 0 - - 7 0 3 3

Ipswich 22 2 *3 0 - - 26 t 10 O

Bridewell k o O 0 0 - - O 0 f 0 2

IVELCHESTER 32 1 '5 0 - - 35 3 14 0

Kendal Bridewell o O O 0 - - 0 0 0 1

Kettenng o O O 2 - - 0 0 0 0

Kingfcn 3 O O 0 - 3 1 0 0

Bridewell o O O 6 - - 0 0 0 7

KjusrtJbnagb o 0 O 0 - - 1 0 0 0

Lancaster 67 5 11 0 - - 55 2 7 0

Launceston 0 0 4 0 - - 0 0 O 0

Lament atm 0 0 0 3 - - 0 0 O 1

Leeds 0 0 0 0 - - 0 0 O 1

Leicester 22 1 IO 0 - - 9 1 4 0

Bridewell O 0 O 8 - - 0 0 0 2

Town 3 0 2 0 - - 2 0 3 0

Lrseej 0 0 O 8 - - 0 0 t 6

269 *4 178 101 291 5 >47 "7

LichfeL

TABLE S.

489

1779* 178 n.

Debtors. Fdo ns Petty Debtors. Felons Petty

Men. Worn, &c. Offenders Men. Worn. &C. Offenders.

Lichfield 3 O 1 0 - 2 0 O 2

Lincoln 22 O H 0 _ _ 28 2 3 O

City I 0 0 0 _ 1 O t O

Liverpool 22 3 0 0 16 3 *4 O

Bridewell 0 0 0 8 _ . 0 0 0 12

London Bridewell 0 0 0 >3 , _ 0 0 0 32

Borough Compter 3 3 2 O - *4 1 0 3

Clerkenwell O 0 45 O - - 77 2 4 j

Bridewell 0 0 0 171 - - 0 O 0 *55

Fleet 77 7 0 0 - . >83 7 0 O

King’s Bench 473 *5 0 0 . 494 21 0 O

Marshalsea 83 4 0 0 . . 38 9 0 2

Newgate 46 5 >4' 0 - - 3 0 *9* 0

New Ludgate '3 0 O 0 - - 20 9 0 O

Poultry Compter +3 3 O 0 - *5 1 7 O

Savoy 0 0 O 98 - . 0 0 0 9*

'i'othill-Fields Bridewell 0 0 O 74 _ 0 0 0 72

Whitechapel 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Wood-tlreet Compter 32 6 11 0 . 47 7 >7 0

Lofivsitbitl _ 2 0 0 0

Lndlonv O 0 2 0 _ 0 0 0 0

Lynn Regis 3 0 2 0 4 0 2 0

Macclesfield - - 1 0 O 0

Maidstone *5 0 23 0 - - 23 1 56 0

Bridewell O 0 O >3 . O 0 4 11

Manchester 0 0 O 11 . 0 0 O >4

Marlborough O 0 O 4 - 0 0 O 11

Middlewich O 0 O 5 0 0 O 14

Mildenball O 0 O 0 . - 0 0 0 1

Monmouth 6 0 12 0 - - 10 0 O 1

Town 0 0 O 0 - - I 0 O 1

Montgomery 4 0 3 0 - - 11 0 4 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 1 - - 0 0 *0 0

Morpeth 9 1 6 0 . - *4 I 4 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 3 . _ 0 0 0 6

Nantwich 2 0 0 0 - _ I 0 0 O

Nrwcafile '3 1 4 0 - - 9 3 1 0

Tower Gaol O 0 0 1 . 0 0 0 2

Tallow-house _ 0 0 2 0

Bridewell O 0 0 ? - 0* 0 0 5

Newport, Essex O 0 0 9 - - 0 0 0 <5

Xfle of Wight O 0 0 0 ' - - 0 0 0 2

Northampton *4 1 »5 0 - - »7 2 9 I

Town 1 0 O 0 - 0 O 0 O

1007 59 281 4'8 1041 60 4*9 459

3R Norwich

490

TABLES.

1779- 1782.

Debtoi*. Felons Petty Debt on. Felocu

Men. Warn. Ac. Offarivs. Men. Worn. Ac. Offenders.

Noiwich *5 1 z9 o - - 24 I *3 O

City *9 o s o - - '4 2 S ©

Bridewell o o o 7 - - O O O 4

Nottiscbam 12 o s o - - 11 0 6 0

Bridewell O o o o - - O 0 0 2

Town 2 o o o - - I 0 1 O

Oakbah 3 o I o - - 2 0 3 O

Qdimm o o o 5 - - O 0 0 4

OndU o o o o - - O 0 0 1

Ozfocs 12 1 4 o - - 21 4 3* 0

City Bridewell - - O 0 1 0

PeterhrtMgb 1 0 0 0 - - I 0 0 0

Bridewell O o o 1 - - O 0 0 0

PtfWtrtb A o o o 2 - - O 0 0 0

Pljmtnib I © o © - - 4 0 0 4

PmU Bridewell - - 0 0 0 1

P&rtfmcMSb 6 0 1 ◦ - - 6 0 4 0

Paesteics 2 o 2 o - - 9 0 4 0

Prtjtem O o o >7 - - 2 0 0 7

Readikc 8 I 9 o - - 18 1 11 O

Bridewell o o o 7 - - O 0 0 3

Micbmtud 6 o o i - - 12 1 0 2

Rifn liberty 3 o o o - - O 0 0 0

Town 1 o o I - - O 0 0 O

jXmbtjttr 2 o o o - - O © 0 ©

*—tr - - O 0 1 O

Rvthik 2 o 2 o - - 6 2 7 O

St. J&sa's Borosgh gaol O o o o - - I O 1 O

Liberty o o 1 o - - O O 0 O

Bridewell o o o 3 - O O 0 2

St. Gmrge*t Fitldi Bridewell o o o 44 - - O O 1 l6

Salisbury 16 1 >5 o - - 18 2 3 3

City i o I o - - 1 O O 0

SktfrU 8 o o o - - 3 O O 0

Sheptex-Mallrl o o o >9 - - 0 O O 12

Sherbsme o o c 2 - 0 O O 3

Sbbewsbobt *9 4 io O - - >7 2 '9 O

Bridewell © o © S - - O O O |6

Town I o o 8 - - O O O 12

SnttimptKi Sheriff’s Ward 3 o o 0 - - 2 0 O O

Town o o I o - - 0 O O O

Bridewell 0 0 0 1 - 0 O 0 I

SOUTBVAAK 20 3 «+ o - - 21 2 4* O

SmMtba<J o o o '7 - - 0 0 O 9

7* 11 loo >43 '94 7 73 132

Spalding

TABLES.

*779-

Debtors. Felons Petty

Men. Worn. &c. Offenders.

Spalding 0 O 0 2

Stafford ¥> O *4 O

Bridewell Stamford 0 0 O 9

S'Wajfbam 0 O O 10

Taunton 0 O O 10

Town

Thame 0 0 .0. 0

Thetford 0 0 1 0

Thirsk 0 0 0 z

Tiverton

Ufi 0 0 0 '1

Wakefield 0 0 o' 20

Walfinghdm 0 0 0 z

Warwick 21 1 28 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 12

Winchcomb 0 0 0 0

Winchester 12 0 26 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 11

Town

Windsor Castle 1 0 0 0

Town 0 0 I 0

Wtjbtch 1 I 0 0

Witney 0 0 0 7

Wil'verhampton 0 0 0 2

Woodbridge 0 0 0 l

Worcester . 18 1 8 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 6

City 5 1 4 0

IVr exham 0 0 0 2

Wymundham 0 0 0 S

Yarmouth - 4 0 4 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 0

York 64 9 16 0

City 9 3 2 0

St. Peter’s 5 0 1 0

Bridewell 0 0 0 8

180 16 105 116

From foregoing pages 85 4 22 47

247 >5 112 92

269 1+ 178 101

1007 59 281 4.8

7' 11 IOO >43

1959 119 798 917

1782.

Debtors, Men* Worn. Felons fcc. Petty Offenders.

1 0 0 3

37 I 20 0

0 0 1 5

0 0 2 0

0 0 0 4

0 0 0 9

0 0 0 z

0 0 0 1

0 0 0 0

0 0 0 9

' 0 0 0 i

O 0 0 2

0 0 0 26

3i 1 u O

0 0 0 10

0 0 0 1

32 1 28 O

0 0 0 *3

1 0 0 0

0 0 0 0

0 0 0 0

0 I 0 O

b 0 0 2

0 0 1 2

0 0 0 4

13 2 7 0

O 0 0 3

3 I 2 0

0 0 0 1

0 0 0 9

4 0 2 0

1 0 0 1

64 s ‘3 0

5 O 3 0

2 O 0 0

0 O 0 3

194 12 90 *5

89 11 ‘9 57

249 H 43 ‘27

291 J 47 “7

1041 60 4*9 459

‘94 ‘7 >73 ‘32

2O58 ‘39 991 1017

3 R 2

Total,

4$X

Great Total

TABLE S.

t" *779- Mex Debtors 1959. Im 1782. zo{8.

Wemem Debtors U9. - *39-

Felons tec. 798. - 99».

Petty 0Seeders 9*7- - 1017.

Prisoners in the Hulks Sx6. - 104.

Smffefid omitted 6O. - 30.

TstmJ Nmmbtr ef Prijnmn 4379- 4+39*

Though I hare visited all the County Gaols, and almost all the other prisons; yet as there arc feme few of the corporation prisons which I did not fee, 1 have added sixty more prisoners to the number in 1779, and thirty in 1782; so that probably, we have nearly the average-noiw of persons confined at car time in the prisons of this kingdom.

JJmbjmx tie Nmmhtrt, cemfimtdim the Loxooa Prijemt mmJJm the Hmlht, mi the time they were vifitti im 1785, exhich ere ms JeUmws.

Debtors. Fdorrs Potty

Men. Worn. JtCo Offender

Loicbos Bridewell 0 O 0 J8

Baroagh Compter *s 3 0 2

Clerkenwell O O 79 O

Bridewell 2 4 O 18;

Fleet 187 3 O O

King’s Bench 557 *5 O O

Marshalfca 6> 6 O O

Newgate 101 12 *♦ O

New Lndgate '4 1 0 O

Poultry Compter 3° 0 9 O

Sipoy O 0 0 56

Totfcill-Fields Bridewell 4 2 0 86

Wood-street Compter 34 O 36 O

In tike Tjntkr 0 O *94 O

Tetml 1019 56 55* J67

I do not iscWe those fdty cotrriAs oa board the Crs/sr, Kseocioaed m ftp 4«C.

INDEX.

A.

Aberdeen 201

Abingdon county bridewell 339 town gaol 340

Acte 296

Ad 22 and 23 Charles II. quoted 24 32 George II. referred CO 26 concerning executions 196 for holding sessions in Scotland 195

in Welch counties 196 for preierving health of prisoners, passed 2 should be hung up 35 for relief of acquitted prisoners, passed 2 against frivolous and vexatious arrests,.evaded 251

Acts, Irish, relative to prisons, referred to 7, 27, 32, 33, 203, 204, 205, 207 Aikin, Mr. his Thoughts on HospitaU quoted 180 Air, contaminated by gaols 7 free, want of in prisons 6 A'tx la ChapelU >37 Alarm-bell, proper in prisons 3f

escape prevented by 458 Alcoves in an hospital 159, 162 Aldsworth, Mrs. her legacy 403 Allnott, Mr. his legacy 251 Allowance of bread, continued to acquitted prisoners detained for fees 203 table of, should be hung up 35 to foreign criminals 51, 32, 36, 6l, 64, 65, 66, 6ft, jo, 72, 76*, 77, 78, 83, 90, 93, 96> 97* 98, lot, 102, 10$, 106, 107,109, ll6, 117, 119, 120, 121, 123,426, 127, 133, *34» >35* *36, 137* *33, 139, »4°> |4I* Hz> 144, 146, 148, 150, 151, 154, 155, J56, 160, »6i, 162, 163, 164, *67,173

Allowance to prisoners, quantity proposed 33, 4?

felons paid only monthly 425 Alms-house at Florence 10S Naples 118 VitHtta 104

Ahjl 143

Aliena 75

Amiens 163

Amjferdm 35

Anglesey 432

Antwerp 139

Appleby county gaol 430

bridewell 431 Apprentices, faulty, rooms for 39, 231, 235, 241, 276, 278 Arras 163

Arret of French parliament for government of prisons 172, 179 Arsenal at Lisbon 151 Afiaffinations, frequency of, in Italy 118 Assizes, judges to remain six days at 196 held too seldom in some places 13 where no prison 270, 273, 399, 423 Assizes of bread 37, 71, 81, 83, 93, 101, 104.

7» >4Z> S3. >59- i63* >7*. *°7 Alton, judge, discharges acquitted prisoners without fees 203 Afylnms 118,134, 162 Augsburg 129

Austrian Netherlands 139 Axminster, gaol-distemper brought there 9 Aylefiury county gaol 280

bridewell 281

Ayljbam 293 A]r 195

Bacon,

INDEX.

B.

Bacon, lord, lus account of the gaot-distemper g Badajez 134

Bailiffs, extortioa of 5

Bakers, ppniflimeat for 105 Bala 454 Baatarj 34;

Bankrupts, ferae law against 123

Bark and cordials prescribed to prisoners 149, 283

Barking 263

Barrack-beds, what 263

Basferd 325

Bafi 127

374

BafiiQe I74

Bath city 404

Bath proper in gaols 23

a commodious one 321, 449 ofed by way of pnnifluneot 437 used as a pig-stye 207 Baths should be made convenient, or useless 314 Bathing prisoners 84 Bailey 4!6 Battel 273 Bayreuth 132

Bean, Hector, his charity 33a Beaufort, duke of, clothes prisoners 360 Beaumaris 432

Beccaria, Marinis, quoted 13, 4a, 118 Beeda 303 Bedfordshire 283 Bedford coanty gaol 283

bridewell 285 town gaol 285 Benedictines, their prison 144,

Bedding, to be frequently changed 32 want of in prisons 8 Beds, bringing oat into the air, a falatary cnitom

I2§

Sedstead left by a prisoner 320 Bedftcads, of cast iron proposed 39 Bsllem 151

Benefactions and Legacies, lifts of 224,248,2$ 1, 5*5. i*7» 4*o, 434, 440

Berguet 182 Berlelj 36;

BrrkhamftsJ 237 Bezkshiss 357

Berlin 98 Bern 125

Berwick upon Tweed 427 Beverley county bridewell 409 town gaol 4M Hall-garth 411 Bicetre 173

Biem-venu in prisons, what 13$

Birmingham goal 312

prison for debtors 312 Black Assize 9

Blackct, Sir Walter, his benefaction 422 Blackflooe, Sir William, quoted 176

act of parliament, drawn by 470 Blind, hospital for 178 Blinds for prison windows 1S5 Bodmin county bridewell 392 fecHPs ward 393 county gaol 394 Bologna 107

Book kept of work done by prisoners 146 Bordeaux a 80 Borough Compter 2$ 3 Bofion 332

Botanic Magazine at Mofctno 94 Bounty to prisoners of war 187, 190, 193 Bowen, Martha, her will 456

Bowes, Mr. his charity 408 Boys should be confined Separate 39

BraclUf 337 Bradford 414

Bread allowance, deficiency of 6

cut in slices for each prisoner 47 Breconshire 469 Brecon county gaol 460

bridewell 462 town gaol 462

Breda 51 Bremen 67 BreJUtu 97

Breton, Abbe, founder of a charity for supplying prisoners with linen 168 Bridewell 230

derivation of the name 230 Bridewells, observations on 37

distress and idleness in not to be expected to maintain thetat* selves 41 Bridges, William, his legacy 337

Bridgewater

INDEX.

Bridgewater 404 Bristol city gaol 40a

bridewell 404 Lawford’s-gate bridewell 364 Brome, Mr. chaplain, commended 302 Broughton, Valentine, his legacy 440 Bruges 148 Brunswick 71 Brussels 141

Buckinghamshire 280 Buckingham 282 Bnatingfkrd 257 Burges 161

Hospicio 161 Bury St, Edmund's gaol 305

bridewell 306 Butler, bUhop, quoted 22

C.

Calais 182

Calcutta, black hole at 7

Call, John, Esq, his assiduity 395

Calvert and Co. their donation 222, 226, 229

Cambridgeshire 288

Cambridge county gaol 288

bridewell 289 town gaol 289

bridewell 290 Campomanes, count, his kind assistance 160, 164 Canterbury county bridewell 266 gaol 267

city bridewell 268 work-house 268 Capital punishments, too frequent 42 Cardiff county gaol 462 town gaol 464 Cardiganshire 455 Cardigan 45$

CarliJU county gaol 428 city gaol 4x9 Carmarthenshire 457 Carmarthen caille 457

borough gaol 458 Carnarvonshire 433 Carnarvon county gaol 453 Caroline, princess, her charity 230 Caferns, unhealthy to lodge in 164

Cafftl 134

Cellar to pomp or drown, a fifiion 38 Cells, very close and noisome 389 Centinels to prisoners of war, too ready to fire 189 Ceffio benorum, process of 195 Chamber-rents and furniture to be fixed by magistrates 30 Chomberry 123

Chambres de convalescence 180 Chandos, duke of, <his charity 371,373 Chapel necessary in gaols 25

absentees from, fined 223 Chaplain, his character and duty 28

in Dutch prtfons 45 necessary to bridewells 40 attentive, difnufTed 286 Chaplains salaries reduced for neglect 401 -Charitable society for relief of prisoners 106

for attendance on and burial of condemned 113 paying prisoners fees 130 Charity box, robbed, method to prevent it 383 Charcer-schools in Ireland 208 Chelmsford county gaol 259

bridewell 261

Cheshire 438 Obefer caille 438

city gaol 442 bridewell 443 Chef erf eld county bridewell 319 gaol 320 Chichester 273

Child-murder, punishmentof 76 Children of malefador* taken care of 37 Cinque Ports 268

debtors prison for* 268 Circuit, Home - - 255—279 Norfolk 280—306 Midland 307—336 Oxford 337—368 Western 369—404 Northern 405—437 Chelter 439—451 - North Wales 452—454

Carmarthen 455—458 South Wales 459—464

Cirencester 366 Civitavecchia x 15

Clare

INDEX.

Cicrr bridewell 304

CUnfes of ad againi (piritaous liquon, quoted 34 seldom hung of, and evaded, 35, Ctanliacfe, rales for promoting 30 Clcaaneis of French prifiems 166 CUrkemzoeU bridewell 255

new prison 232 Clerks of assize, their demand of fees, 13,310,322 purchase their places 16 receipts given by 16 the peace, their demand of fees 16 Clothes to be wont in gaol 31

of prisoners, Arnold be pat into an oven 32 Clothing for gafiey-Haves 109, 116, 133 Cobhasn, lord, ereds a gad at his own expence 28a Cnckarmnnih 429

Code of laws made by prisoners 220, 148 ibr Hamburg, quoted 75 Rnfiao, qsocadon fion 86 Ctichtfltr county bridewell act town gaol 263 Collection, for prisonen, throngh the

coanty 314, 318, 322 Collings, Abel, his charity 323 Collyer, James, Esq. his complaint to the king of a bad gaol 291 CcUgn 137

Commifiaixe de la Prison 170 Ceadergerit at Paris 171-

Condemned criminals attended and boned by a society 113

cells for, described 214 ronftantly attended 56,137, «S4

liberal allowance to 67,83, *4* >37 separated from others 167 Confnmption, thoaght contagions 116,158 Contempts, prisonen lb called 363 Convicts not ungovernable 39 Cook, Captain, on cfed of cleantinefe on the behaviour of his {hip's crew 31 CcfenLcgtn 76 CotSVAU 39I

Courts of Confidence, account of 229 Court of Confeience debtors, confined with criminals 236, 242, 292,377 Courts of Jstke held in prilous 40

Coventry city and county gaol 310 bridewell 311 Cambridge 464

Coxe, Rev. Mr. referred to 95, 128 Crib-beds at Plymouth hospital described 39 Criminals an separate rooms 124

numerous in Ireland 203 Cronstadt 90

Cruel method of securing prisoners 291 Cuubeelakd 428 Customs, bad in prisons 12

D.

Dagge, Abel, a gaoler commended 25 Dartferd 267 Daventry 337 Deal 269

Dean and Chapter of Boroogb St. Peter, their prison 336 De Betfltoi munificence of 88, 95 Debtor, dose confinement of 397 Debtor refuses submission to gaoler 447 Debtors alimented 47, 55,64, 83, 98, 102, 106, 123, 136, 141, 148, 169,172,195 and felons, separataon of, necessary 24 compelled to discover effefls 205 few in Germany 67 few in Holland 45 fen' procure their groats 5 have a right to fend for necessaries 26 in France, bow cleared 170 not permitted to go to chapel 419 rules wanted for government of 371 Haves 85

should be allowed to work 24 wanting food 5

without effeSs not permitted to be confined 137 working out their debts, impracticable 85 unruly, room for 433 ward, where to be placed 25 Decollation, machine for 107, 418 Defeats of Irish prisons 206 Scotch prisons 202

Delfi 52

Dsvbichshieb 449

Denbigh 450

D&KMABE

INDEX.

DllfUAftK 75

Dependants on prisoners, proportion of 18 Deputation to visit prisoni 170 Dkuyiiiiie 318 Derby county gaol 318 town gaol 310 Derby, John, his legacy 379 Deserters, family cf 320

infection from 439 Deventer 65 Devizes 377 Devonshire 382

Diet, tables of 48, 56, 59, 60, 74, 79, 80, too,

3* «57» *» *3 39°* d66 in bridewells 40 Dinner.. lady’s charity to English prisoners there 11 Discipline in bridewells 39 Difedfes in Russia moil frequent in winter 467 Dispensary, general, their attention to prisoners 229

Dogs not to be kept by prisoners 32 DclgtJlj county gaol 454

bridewell 434 Dd-bu'tst Amilerdam 62 Donations to be properly distributed 34 Doncaster 414 Dercbejfer county gaol 379 town gaol 381 Dorsetshire 379 Dart 31

Dover uftle 26%

town gaol 269 Dow, Robert, his donation 213 Dresden 102

Drunkenness, bow puntshed 33,6t Dublin 202

gaoler non-resident 27 Dumfries 201

Dungeons, few in new foreign prisons 66

found unhealthy and difofed 136 horrid 103, 130, 137, 138, 160, 169, 171, 173, 179, 283, 307, 3<©> 321, 334* 346* 353* 4©3* 433* 439* 44* destroyed 163 Dunkirk |8o

Duntze, Dr. and his friend catch the gaol-fever in London Newgate 69 Durham 419

county gaol 419

Durham county bridewell 422 Dutch and English money compared 47

E.

East-Grinflcad 273

Eden, Mr. quoted 9, 14, 13, 19, 42, 43

Edinburgh 197

Edmundson, William, his legacy 434 Elvas 153 Ely gaol 291

bridewell 292 EunoYugNT or PaisoneRs Ballast-beaving 105, 109, 466 Carding hair 47

hare and rabbit down 138 Carrying Hone to lime-kiln 156 water 151 Chopping rags 237 Cleaning (Ireets, &c. 120, 123 Clearing harbour 105, 108 Colouring prints 128 Digging chalk 72 Drawing water 174 Fulling-mill 73 Grinding corn 102, 136 speftacles 131 Hemp-dressing 231, 24*, 289, 3*9, 348# 424 Keeping fiJk-wonns 101, 102 Labourers 90,96, 102, 103, 121, Il8, 163 Logwood cutting and rasping 47, 57* 3* 68, 73, 78, ioi, 102, 298 Malting cabbage-nets 383 candlewick 435 £ thing nets 47, 147 garters, purses, &c. 293, 301,327,409 girths 71

gold and silver lace 131 lift carpets and flippers 70, 71 and mending linen 54, 143, 146, 136 paper-hangings 142 pegs for Jboemafcer* 323, 334 pins 158 ropes 121, 151 fltoes 117, 118,' 142, 143 soldiers clothes 104 stockings 72,104, 137 whiting 272 Picking oakum 61, 231, 236, 413,437, 441 S Employment

INDEX.

Employment or Prisokers plain work 54* 60, 83 Poliflung marble 132 stone 394. plate glals 174 Pounding Hones 135, 137

tile foods 411, 415 Sawing wood 93, 96, 103, 116, 1:8 Serving masons 109,116,118 Sorting coffee berries 47

Spinning, carding. tec. 47,$2, 53,60,61,64, 67, 70, 71, 73.75,84, 100,101, 103, 111, *28. *33* *37* *39* *43- «47> >49* *61

Spinning hair 68 Various trades 120, 135, 142, 148 Weaving damalk 54

carpeting 51, 68 cotton 121, 143, 147 gauze 121 lace 139, 142, 143 linen 54, 61, 63, 71, 104, 121, 158 lacking 51, 63, 267 Winding at a wheel 47 Woollen maaofe&ory 5a, 73, 104,133, 138, 147, 158, 3«5-4*7 Working on fortifications, roads, See. 66, 72, 76, 78, 87, 92, 93, 101, I05, 112, 117, Il8, 137 in a garden 93 Eagfilh not naturally cruel 118 Escape, remarkable 127 Efeapes poni&ed 53, 102, no, 117, 163 not ponished 125 Essex 259

Ethiopia, India, tec. rooms fe marked 66, 73 Evera 153

Executions, few in Holland 45, 56 folrmnity of abroad 45 Execution, modes of 45, 76, 82, 1x4, 137 Execution day, a rime of riot 215 Exeter high gaol for felons 382

foeriiPs ward for debtors 384 county bridewell 385 city gaol 386

F.

Tahnsmth 397

Fanfo, Rev. Mr, commended 429

Fees from prisoners should be abolifoed 29 abolUhcd *71, 377, 378 explanation of in tables sto penalty for demanding, not in a signed table an

tables of, should be hang of 34 Fees, tables of 197, 199, *03, *s6, *19,221, 223, *7, *30, 234, *37, 238, 242, *47, 252, *54, 256, 260, *6j, *71, 276, *77, 279, *81, 284, 287, *89, 290, 294, *97, *98, *99, 30*, 304, 308, 311, 314, 316, 319, 3*, 328, 331, 332, 335, 338, 343, 348, 349s 35*. 354. 35*. 361, 364, 3*8. 37o, 376, 380, 384, 387, 395, 400, 403. 4°6. 410, 417, 420, 423, 426, 433. 439.443. 444. 447. 4S°> 463 Feet, morti6ed frequent in gaols 20, 256 Felons, wear the county-clothes in prison, but tried in their own 358 Fenelon, quotation from 36 Fenton, Mr* recorder, his humanity 4.33 Fcrnan-Nnnez, count, his kind assistance 164 Fielding, Henry, quoted 40, 42 Fine of £2000 laid on a county for a new county court 356 Fines, the word explained 210

should be separated from criminals 234 Firing, necessity of in prisons 38

candles, &c. liberal allowance of 423 liberal allowance of 99, 271 Finnian, count de, his kind present of plan 121 Firmin, Mr. his employment of the poor 41 Fifiler ton Anger gaol 375 Fleet prison 217 Flintshire 446 Flint county gaol 446 Floors laid rough, an inconvenience 186

strewed with spruce fir or juniper 85,88,94 Florence 107 Folbingbam bridewell 329 Food, want of in bridewells 4

what necessary, and how distributed 33 Fothergill, Dr. his scheme for employment of convicts 132 FoaodliDg-hospital at Paris 178 France 165 Frankfort on tie Mnine 135 Free ward should be left for debtors 30 French Flanders 164

INDEX.

Frtybnrg 12$

Fuller, John, his legacy 230 Fumigation, mode of by Dr. Lind 32 with Juniper berries 32

G.

Gabriel, Mr. his donation and legacy 360 Gainsborsugb bridewell 329 Galleys, at Civita-oeccbia 115 Naples 117 Genoa 119 Feeder tod none sent to under twenty 116 Galley.(laves, French, allowance to 167

term commences two days after sentence 167 in Germany 66 Switzerland 124 lie on (bore 108 yearly expence of 91, 116 Gallows, mark of a ftignevrie 124 Gaming, a bad custom in prisons 13

prohibited 53, 119, 126, 147, 396,440,

4+7.46'

Gaol, county, proposed plan for 21 bed fitaation of 21 new, commended 270, 394 Gaols becoming iickly - 273, 468 Gaols private property, an evil 17

instances of 237,258,264, i9i, 305,320,336,341,366,373,378,383, 397. 398> 4”> 4>*. 413. 4>5> 418. 4,9> 43*. 444. 446

Gaoler, who and what he should be 25 care in choice of, in France 169 non-resident, an evil 17 fifty-five years in office 380 condemned to be hanged for starving prisoner 168 fined for detaining acquitted prisoners 16 ironing a woman 13 demand upon, for a copy of judge’s calendar 16

obliged to pay prisoner's debt for allowing him to work 312 by patent from bishop 419 on his own accord hangs up clauses against spirituous Hquors 331

3 St

Gaoler, signs table of fees 238, 284, 287, 434 paid for keeping bread account 370 punished for escape of prisoners 125 Gaolers, artifice nfod by, to prevent examination of prisons 468 complaint of the want-of roles for their own conduct 371 neglefi visiting felons ward 27 none in Russia, but military 165 ' salaries of 48, 56, 169 fees raised 233

wives inspect women's apartments 77 Gaol-committee, report of, quoted 14, 26, 218,

*S>

Gaol-delivery, foldom, an evil 15

but once a year 297, 420, 423, 425, 429, 431 once in three years 15 Gaol-distemper, havock from 8—9

not known in Italy 117 Raffia 94 Switzerland j 25

spread of 347 Stow’s account of 2 remarks on 467 persons apparently dead of, recovered by walking with cold water 23, 255 Garnish, evils from 12

prisoners punished for extorting 13 forbidden in France 167 General, an old, opinion concerning bedding 33 Geneva 123 Genoa 119 Germany 66, 98, 129 Gerrard, Sir Thomas, his charity 434 Ghent 144

Gibbet-law of Halifax 418

Gilpin, Bernard, his viiits to prisons 2$

Glamorganshire 462

Glasgow 199

Glocbstershire 362

G/cceffer cafilc 362

city gaol 367

no affixe of bread 362

Gosport 371 Gouda 52

Gould, judge, fines a gaoler for detaining acquitted prisoners iff

INDEX.

Grand-Chatelet at Pans 171 Gram 105

Greig’s, Admiral, account of flares 91 Greiham, Sir Thomas, his chaxit y 224, 249, 25s Groats, of debtors 5, 34

estate bound for paying 398 Cni»|CT 63 Guildford 279

Gwrnn, Eleanor, her chanty 224, 232, 2$4, 275

H.

H«i» 53

Hollamfbirt, liberty 413

Haller, Dr. his opinion of oar gaol-fever 127

Hales, Dr. his ventilators 23

Halifax 418

Half tad 262

Hamburg 72

HiUPiHUE 369

Homos 133

Boomer 448

Hakotu 70

Han way, Mr. on separate confinement 2? Hmrbsrg 72 Harlem 54 Harvrieb 263 Haalita ca&le 446 Haverfurdxtf county gaol 456 town gaol 457 Heberdea, Dr. his opinion concerning wet room* and fitoations 30 Baltj 345

Huifo.dshih 357 fUrrftri county pol 357

bridewell 358 city gaol 359 Her man dad del Refugio 139 Herns, Elizabeth, her charity 259 HtsTFORossiis 253 Hertford county gaol 253

bridewell 236 Hcfleden, Thomas, his legacies 327 Hey don, John, his legacy 403 Hinkley 313 Hilckim 237

Hobson, Thomas, his legacy 29a Hodgefion, Dr. his charity 408

Hollaud 44

Hope, Mr. John, hi* kindnefi $8 Horde, Thomas, his legacy 342

Horsham couaty gaol 270

escape intended from 21 Hon, Sir John, his kind affiance 164 Hospitals, coastroftion and regulation of 183 Hospitals and infirmaries, Engliflt, dec. Dublin 209 Edinburgh 199 Leeds 414 Vtnwich 294 Oiford 342 Pfymtnsh 389 Hospitals, foreign

jfmjhrdam 62 Jntnuerp 141 Bologna 107 Bordeaux 180 Mrtfiam 98 Mrmgu 149 Brngels 142 Burget 162

Copenhagen 80, 81

Creuftadt 91

Evers 153 Flamee 108 Gome 120 Gbtu* 143 MmrUm 54 Lille 165 Lifts 15*

Ljeue 179 Madrid 158 Milan 122 Mcjerw 94, 95 Mntdeb 130 Naples 118 Pamplona 163 Paris 177 Peterjbmrg 8ft Borne 113, I 13 Stockholm 84 Talavera 154 Toledo 133 Turin 123 Valladolid l6l Vienna 104 Warfame 96, 97

Hospitals

INDEX.

Hospitals dor prisoners 106, 108, UOj:iij>'ii6, 118, 152, 1584 163, 164 House of Correction, fee bridewell Education, PfierJLnrg 88 Indoftry, Dublin 205

for IJU of fright 37* Mildtnball 305 Hotel de la Force, a new prison 172 Hull, lee Kingston Hulks on the Thames 465 Huntingdonshire 286 Huntingdon county gaol and bridewell 286 Hufley, Rebecca, her legacy 327 Hutchinson, — Esq. his charity loft 323

I.

Idleness, a false indulgence 126 Jenkinson, Thomas Robert, his charity 327 jew prisoners, allowed a different diet 47

excused working on their iabbath

136

Jews Ward 111,223 Imprisonment for debt abolished 150 infirmary in gaols, how belt COnftrafled 23 Inquisition prison at Madrid 160 Rome 112 Valladolid 160 Inspector of prisons, his office and doty 36 with a faiary, begligent 84 Inspectors of prisoners of war necessary 189 Intercoarfe, locking, of the sexes in prison 346, 350, 363, 383 Inverness 201 Ipswich county gaol 301

bridewell 303 town bridewell 30$

Ireland 202

Irons, bad use of In prisons 13

judges opinion concerning 14 not nfed in French prisons 166 Iron bed Heads in debtors rcoms 449 collar and hook for criminals 123 glove, a puniftunent 115 plates, prison roofed with 88 Iron-grate doors, for free circulation of air 92, 104, 107, 270 Italy 106

Inttlebefter county gaol 399 ,«

Izacke’s Alphabetical Rtgifter, quoted 388' Justices, bound to.insped bridewells 36

fineable if a bridewell with a court be not provided 38

K.

Keeper, fee gaoler

Keeper ofrbridewell, his qualifications 38, 40 murdered 340

of honfe of correction ihprifimed 141 Keeper’s account of expences and earnings 365 Kelfon, Mr. his legacy 399 ,

Kempe, Mrs. her charities 294 Kendal county bridewell 431 gaol 431 Kendiick, John, his legacy 230 Kent 264 Kettering 335 Kidderminster 349 King, his benefaction 375

bounty towards building a gaol 392 King, lord - chancellor, his declaration against severe confinement 14 King's Bench prison 243 King's evidence, difficulty where to keep 22 % Kingston upon Hull gaol 413

bridewell 415 Kingston upon Thames bridewell 277 town gaol 279 Knaresbrough 413, 414

honour of 413 Knoot, punishment of, described 86

L.

Laboor, none performed in most bridewells Ladbroke, Sir Robert, letter to him quoted 7,14 Lancashire 432 Lancaster castle 432

town gaol 436 Langton, Mrs. her charity 434 Lath and plaster, partition of, to prevent escapes *7*

Latham, Peter, his charity 434.

Lauhacb 105

Lamneefton county gaol 391

Lnu/mne

I N

Ln/mw i f tvrufum 304

Lavioa, Mn. her durity 409 Laamto at Legbum 109

Msfcw 93

Litis 414 Letmsmritm 63 Lervrmbercb gift-hays 65 Legacies recovered 420

tables of feoeM be bang ap 34. care of at Bruges 149 Legacies, yfer benefodron*

Leghorn <08 Leicestershire 313 Lncefitr county gaol 313

bridewell 315 town gaol 316

bridewell 317 Lettfom, Dr. his method in potrid fevers 23 Leva 272 LyJn 53

Licence, obfe.-vation concerning zio Licences to fcM Uqucn, pernicious effects of in gaols 16, 83,198, 219, 238, 303, 306, 340, 458 none in Ireland 27 Lichfield 3 32 Litge X37 Lilli 164

Lime-white, what, and its benefits 30 Lincolnshire 326 Uatslm castle 326

city gaol 330 Lind, Dr. his method of fumigation 32 traces infection to gaols 10 Linen, clean, to prisoners from a charity 167 Lisbox 130

Litter, a saifaaee in prifoas 32, 312,429 Uaafmi gaol 436

bridewell 437 LoftineL of Italian hospitals 119 London 212 Lijbaeishid 398

Loughborough, lord, fines a gaoler for ironing 13 Lucca 119 Lmdggse, new 222 Ludlcv gaol 336

INDEX.

L*Mxk» bridewell $56 Luimm IOS

Lumley, lady, her charity 408 Lunatics and idiots, a nuisance in gaols 8 Lunenburg 72 Ljum Regis 3OO Lyons Ijg

M

Macclesfield prison 444

bridewell 444 Macfarlan, Dr. quoted 33 Maclaine, Dr. fits communications 55 Madrid 153

Hospicio 158 Magdeburg 102

Magistrates, insped weekly 99, 131, 144 aegled of 36

room (or, in hottfesof correction 139 Maidjhue county gaol 264

bridewell 266'

Manchester 435

Maubeim 133

Mann, $ir Horace, his kiodnefii 108 Manufactory for deserted children 152

of military cloth in Denmark 78

Marlborough 377 Marshalsea prison 230

in Dublin 205 Matron to prison 231, 235 Mead, Dr. on the canie of contagion 31 Mechlin 141

Medical practice for sick prisoners 149, 283 Melton-Monvbray 315 bfmttz 136

Merionethshire 434 Middleburg 31 Middlenuich 441 Milan, 120 MildatbaU 305

Mioifter of parish in Ireland to take care of prisoners allowance 33.

Minuteness of description, reason for 122, tn Monmouthshire 339 Maumouib county gaol 339 town gaol 361

INDEX.

Montgomeryshire 451 Montgomery county gaol 451

bridewell 45a Moore, Dr. quoted 112, 154 Morals, vitiated'in prisons 8, to Morpeth county gaol 425

bridewell 427 Mortality, bill of at Anifterdam 55 Mofeow 9s

Mounfey, Dr. found no gaol-fever in Ru/Qa 94 Munich 129

Nantwich debtors prison 444 town gaol 445 Naples 117 Newark upon Trent 325 Newcastle upon Tyne* Newgate

tower gaol^p4 tallow-house 424 bridewell 424

Newgate 213 Newport, Essex 262

IJie of Wight 372 Mormouthfhirt 361 Newport Pagnel 282

New river company, their refusal of water 236

Nimtgutn 64 Norfolk 293

Norman, Francis, eight years lift of his prisoners

36S

Norney, John, his legacy 440 Northamptonshire 334 Northampton county gaol 334 town gaol 336 Northumberland 425 Norwich castle 293

city and county gaol 29$ bridewell 298 Nottinghamshire 321 Nottingham county gaol 32!

town gaol 324

bridewell 325 Number of executions at Amferdam 56 inhabitants at Amjleriam 55 Naples 117 prisoners in Dublin 206

England and Wales 17, 486-492 Scotland 200 Tufcanj no

Nunnery with hospital for in fane 145 Nuns, keep hospitals too close 165 Nurenburg 130

Nurse for the sick in a gaol 293

Nurses for the sick prisoners of war, proposed 187

O.

Oakham county gaol 333

Oakum, picking, a f&lutary employment 236,277 Oath, solemn administration of 82, 126, 195 Objections to the improvement of prisons answered 43 Odiam 372

Oil of tar, board under the beds in aa hospital brushed with 18$

Order for attendance on divine service 223,434 Orphan-house, Amfitrdam 62 Antwerp 141 Berlin 101 Edinburgh 169

Ofnabrng 67 Of end 150 Onndle 336 Quft-bridgt gaol 409 Oxfordshire 341 Oxford castle 341

city bridewell 343 oniverfity bridewell 343 Oven proper in gaols 23 room called so 432

P.

Padua 106 Pamplona 162

Pardoned criminal detained for fees 316, 322 Paris 165

Parole not granted to American officers 187

English prisoners of war without fecority 183

Patroness of prisons 168 Peacock, Mr. his gift 410

a murderer, acquitted by delay of trial 15 Peafasts, Haves 85

instance of attachment to their lord 83 Pemberton, Mr. his charity 302 Pembrokeshire 456 Pembroke town gaol 457

Penitentiary

INDEX.

Feutettttfjr houses, fends of itfilitws* fer 470 Pennant, Mr. kis 7W quoted. 459 Peaty bora«gk.gaol 598

prifest for dcbtuM 798 Pmuiiti, liberties of 397 Ptwrnrt 397

Pejjory sacooaon 1x7, 19$

Perth 193

Pest-house at Hamburg 75 54

Reetrrdam 30 Utrecht 69 farfewif^ gaol 336

bridewell 336

PtTItSBOtC 86

Petty, Sir William, quoted 3$

Petassrtk 27a ProertI, honour of 325

Phrfician should be appointed to Newgate 9

Pitt, Motes, bit Cry tf the efprtfid 313

Placarts painted on boards to deter offenders 73

Plague, medical treatment of 94

Plot’s Hijtery quoted 9

Pljmemtb 389

Pol a it d 96

Police, good* at Berlin 101 Pmtefro3% liberty of the honour 416 Pooh town gaol 381

bridewell 382 Popham, Mr. his two bills a Poor-hoofe at C^tt&qts 79 LiUe 163 Pam* 113

Poor-houies, obfemtioD respecting 373 Pert/mmttb 374 PotTCCAL 130 Pamhwy Camp ter 82$

Prague 103

Prangims, baron de, his prison 124 Prayer, form of, for visitation of prisoners in Ireland S9

Prayers daily in honfes of coirefUon 58, 73, 100, 126, 133, 136, 146

Ftefemiim from gaol-di fees per 3

Prefleigm, 459

Fr'f" 435

Pringle, Sir John, referred to 10, 31, 32 Priions, foreign* arched 104, 111

Prisons, general view of distreft h 4 visited by augdrata 169 Prison uniform, recommended 31 Prisoner forty-three years 384 Prisoners, acquitted, discharged in court 16, 197 allowed to beg abroad 376, 383 begging in the streets 92 burnt in a prison 32, 262 condemned, cells for in Newgate 22, 214

detained for foes I, 13 evils from not (eparating S from bridewells, distressed 1 in England and Wales, namber of 17, 486—492 let out on parole 150 obliged to wash before they have their allowance 241 on exchequer precedes, and from eede- fiastical courts, hard case of 6 periling from cold 38—39, 173 proper allowance for conveying 381 £hould have a day-room 33 ihoald deep in separate rooms 22 feck, liberally allowed 149 starved to death 39, 272 fobfifted by voluntary contributions *7» 9*» *53

tried out of irons 197 Prisoners of war, in general well treated r 1

how treated in Prance the war before lad ir French, defiroes of making their own bread 91 Prisoner1 $ dog destroyed by vermin 413 Prisoners of war, America* 194 Eegti/b, at

Ardrcs 182 Bergtus 182 Beurfaurg 182 Calais 182 Dunkirk 181 Ret/erdam 51 /trVfgw, at

Belfast 192 Brtftol 185 Carlijlt 188

Chejfer i 89

Prisoners,

INDEX.

Prisoners of war, foreign; at Dead 187 D*hli* 193 Edinburgh 192 Falmouth 191 For tom 186

HuH 189 Kilkenny 193 Lincoln 190 Liverpool 189 Pembroke 188 Plymouth 184 Shrewftmry 190 Winchester 186 Yarmouth 191 Profit of-work should go to common stock 41

to keeper, half 272, 323, 348, 356 one seventh 48 to prisoners, all 103, 140, 289, 344 part 116 two thirds 462 one third 121 fourth 73 fifth 147 sixth 394 farplus 131, 144 Proprietors of gaols, /it gaols Public diversions taxed, for support of prisons 60 ofhospitals 163

Public houses not to be frequented by flierUPs officers 53 Pump necessary in gaols 23 Punishment for efeape 78,-101, no, 117 inodes of in Russia 86 Purler’s weights, faulty 465

Qi

Quakers room 432

Quarrels not to be permitted in gaols 34 Qpas, a fermented liquor 91, 92 Quinze-vingtt hospita! for blind 178

R.

Raonorsrirb 439

Rags of felons should be buried 27$

Raikes, Mr. his charity 363 Ranfomers 181

IT

Rasp and spin-honfes, Dutch, management of 4$ Ratijbon 130

Reading county gaol 337

bridewell 3 39 town gaol 339 Recruits from prisons 204 Reed, Hefter, her legacy 38$

Refractory, rooms for 47, 63, 73, 140, 213, 218, *33» 433

Regents of Dutch prisons, privileges of $7 Regulations for gaols, proposed 25

heads of, for penitentiary houses and houses of correction 470 made known to prisoners 135, 140, 168, 172

Rendjburg 76

Richmond (Yorkshire) 412

duke of, active in building a new gaol 270

doubles allowance at abridewell

27*

Rigby, Henrietta, her legacy 434 Abigail, ditto 434 Ring, iron, on window bars 78 Rioters, prisons burnt by 213, 221, 245, 277 prison destroyed by 254 Ripom gaol 413 liberty 412 Rivers, German prisons built near 66 Reche/er gaol 268

bridewell 268 Roms hi Romney gaol 269

Rotheram, Dr. his charity-to prisoners 423 RothwtU prison 416 Rotterdam 46

Rouqoet, Rev. James, his exemplary conduit 403 Rules and orders, tables of, should be hung np 33 for government of Foreign prisons 53, 57,

6S> 99* t09* *3»* *33» «3S»

140, 144, 145, 157, 165, 168 Englishy &C. 200, 220, 243, 328, 385, 396, 4OI, 420, 412, 440, 447, 461 for House of Education 89

Prisoners of war in France 181 England 473 for work-house 69, 73, 100 orboundsofaprifoa 217,144,3981423,458 Russia

INDEX.

H«SS!A 85

RatUrn 449 Rjt tows gaol *73

*S.

St. iffit—'*» borough gaol 257 liberty gaol 258 bridewell *58 Si. 8nrwff’c gaol 366 St. Cstharimr*s gaol 239 St. Crab's hospiul, dole of bread 373 St. GmrpV F«cUi bridewell 276 St. Omtrt 180 St. Ptter, liberty of 411 Salaries of magistrates small 128 s*M> county gaol 375

«»*T *«» 37®

tljfitnw 174

Salt oiSUd u a panifliment 93 tud—'il to— gaol 169 t«9 ptiibn 240 id

Schoolmates, parish, in Scotland 196 Sri it* <31

Scotch act concerning prisons 193, 196, toz

prisoners, Sard condition of at Carlisle 439 ScoTtano 193

Scarry, prevalent among prisoners 84, 164, 67. >73

Secrete chambers 107, in, no Securities for prisoners 163 Separate fonts at church for different dales of criminals 134 Seffoos at towns where no priioe, disttefi from 17® Serrct* and drains, mac of in gaols 7

general remark on 261 in gaols, horn bed cowffru&ed S4 Utfdi, debtors prifou 413 town gaol 416 Sli/ln MmOu coanty bridewell 402 thrlesi county bridewell 381 Sheriff’s offeer foonld not be keeper 28 Sirra^fijoy county gaol 333

bridewell 333 teem gaol 336 Soaorssiu 353 Shims 97

E X.

Sick prisoners, great attention to It6,118,148, 152.163

Situation proper for n prison 21 Skeleton in irons discovered 34s Slaves, annual expeace of 91 humanity to 103, 108 wretched 78 Smith, Mr. his legacy 376

Dr. his visits to prisons 226 George, keeper, commended 2;

SraiN 133

$ falling bridewell 330 Sfmnltsa lot

Spanish tnaotle, an engine of punishment 76, 99 Spectator quoted lefpcOiag detnliness 31 Spirituous liquors cheap, an evil 206

fine on gaolers who fell them 34 any who bring them 34 Sqoalor careens, for compulsion of debtors 202 Soap and towels should be allowed in prisons 314 Society for discharge of persons confined for small debts 229,153 SJntbnrn 127 SoueasETSHtai 399 Scntbamfla bar-gate 373 S*>i 374

bridewell 374 SmtMmfI county gaol 475 Stmth miff county bridewell 323 Stable®, &c. not to be permitted in courts oi gaols 3*

in courts of gaols 297,312, 376, 399,450 Staffobdshiks 350 Stafford coanty gaol 350

bridewell 351 Staircafc, remarkably eify 113 Stamford town gaol 332 Star-chamber prisoners, whither lent 227 Stepney manor, its extent 237 Stockholm 82

Stone tfool for clearing debtors 106 Strafoarg 136

Straw, plenty of, not fumed 351 Sndbarj gaol 307

Suffocation by brimstone, an ancient punishment

>39

Suffolk 301

Sommer rooms in an hospital 88

Sunday,

INDEX.

Sunday, no vidtert admitted on 116 dinner, an encouragement 33 schooll for poor children 363 working on 71,93

Surgeon excused by contract from attending gaol-fever 383 Surgeon, his doty 29

neglea 443

Surrey 274.

Sussex 270 $<wajjfbom bridewell 295 Swaafiy town gaol 464 Sweden 82 Switzerland 124

T.

Talavera 134

Tap, inconveniences arising from gaoler's having

26

Tapfler lets rooms to prisoners 218 Taunton county bridewell 401 town gaol 402 Tax for support of houses of correction 60 Term of confinement abridged 46, 133 Thame bridewell 343 Tbttford town gaol 298 Thirsk bridewell 408 Thornton, the poet, quoted 14 Thumbs, noose put about 215 Thumb-screws for securing prisoners, sent by magistrates 304 Thynne, Thomas, Esq. his legacy 376 Tiflbt, Dr. hits opinion on the gaol-distemper 123 Tiverton town gaol 388

bridewell 388 Toes mortified 280 Toledo *55

Torture abolished 82, 99 by weights 128 horrid 67, 70, 72, 125, 138 restricted 124 room, dismal 129, 130 Tot bill- Fields bridewell 241 Tower 212 Tvwtr-Hemktt gaol 239 Town-clerk signs table of fees 374 Transport eight years in prison 454 Transportation, Mr, Eden’s opinion on 43

Transports, chained to the floor 420, 425

numbers dying on board ship so observations on 42 the word explained 210 Travellers, charity for 115, 142, 159, 268 Travelling, safety of in Eogtand 464 Trenck, his place of confinement 102 Trial, mode of in Sweden 83 Triefit 105 Truro town gaol 397 Turin 122

Turnkeys, many, in French prisons 166, 172 salary of 166, 271 ihoold not be prisoners 27 Tnrnftiles to prevent escape 166

Tver 92

U.

Usk county bridewell 361 Utrecht 64

V.

Valladolid 160

Varnished boards, beds on 108

Varying towns where sessions and affixes are held, an evil 13

Vaults, see sewers

Venice 106

Ventilators in gaols, useful *3 Ventilator, very useful one 346

all in the kingdom enumerated 347 Verieterbuixen 59, 65 Verses over debtors grate 338 Vienna 103

Yilain, count, his book 147 Vilvorde, large prison there ] 42 VJfitants not admitted on Sunday 126

should not be admitted during fenricetime 28

---

W.

Wakefeld county bridewell 408

Wallingford town gaol 340

Walsall town gaol 353

Walsingham bridewell 296

Ward in hospital for prisoners 158, 163, 183, 188

Warrant on committing from ecclesiastical court 342, 416

Warrington 437

Warsaw 96

Warwickshire 308

Warwick county gaol 308

Warwick county bridewell 309

Washing rooms daily, beneficial 30

Washing rooms prejudice against 163, 177, 178

Washing with cold water, recovery by 23, 255

Water, frequent want of 6

Watts, Richard, Esq. his charity 268

Well, remarkable, in a prison 173

Wesel 137

Westmorland 430

Westminster 240

Westminster gate-house 242

West-Wycomb bridewell 282

White, Sir Thomas, his legacy 357

White, alderman of York, his charity 408

Whitechapel prison 237

Whitehaven town gaol 430

White-lion prison, an ancient name 275

White-washing, a general practice in Dutch and German prisons 104

White-washing, good effects of 199

Wildman, Mr. his benefaction 234

Wiltshire 375

Winchcomb bridewell 366

Winchester county gaol 369

Winchester county bridewell 371

Winchester debtors prison 373

Windsor castle prison 340

Windsor town gaol 340

Windows in gaols, how best constructed 22

Windows contrivance for keeping open 373

Window-tax in gaols, remark on 7, 349, 393

Wisbech gaol 292

Witches, dungeons for 129, 130

Witney bridewell 344

Wives and children of debtors, gaols crowded with 17

Wolverhampton county bridewell 332

Woman confined with two soldiers 258

Women and children belonging to prisoners 219, 244

Women chained to a waggon 125

Women committed for bastardy, cruel treatment of 319

Women disciplined every week 437

Women in irons 13, 338, 339, 351, 359

Women keep house clean 77, 136

Women more modest, complaining of bad company 250

Women debtors should be kept separate 25

Women debtors rooms for in a separate court 416

Women felons, should be separate from men 22, 346

Woodbridge bridewell 303

Wooden bars, obstruct air 264

Wood-street Compter 228

Worcestershire 346

Worcester county gaol 346

Worcester county bridewell 348

Worcester city gaol 349

Work necessary in bridewells 38

Work-house at Amsterdam 61

Work-house at Berlin 100

Work-house commended 72, 303, 372, 415, 431

Work-houses, observation on the children in 373

Work-rooms in bridewells, how to be constructed 37

Workshop in debtors ward, necessary 24

Wrexham bridewell 450

Wurtzburg 113

Wymundham bridewell 295

Wyschnei Wolotschok 92

Y.

Yarmouth town gaol 299

Yarmouth town bridewell 300

Yorkshire 403

York castle 405

York city gaol 409

York city bridewell 411

York St. Peter's gaol 411

Yorke, Sir Joseph, his polite assistance 53, 66

Young, Dr. on the effects of seeing distress 36

Z.

Zell 72

Zurich 128

Zwolle 64

THE END.

DIRECTIONS to the BOOK-BINDER.

The Plates are to be inserted as follows:

Page

Plate N°. I. General plan of a County Gaol, - to face 21.

2. Plan of Window Blinds, and Cradle, - 37.

3. Breda, House of Correction, - 52.

4. Amsterdam, House of Correction, - 61.

5. Zwolle, House of Correction, - 64.

6. Utrecht, Pest-house - 65.

7. Copenhagen, Spanish Mantle, - 76.

8. Petersburg, House of Education, - 88.

9. Moscow, Prison, - 92.

10. ----- Botanic Magazine, - 94.

11. Rome, Front of the Prison, - 111.

12. ----- House of Correction, - 114.

13. Milan, House of Correction, - 121.

14 & 15. Bern, Employment of Criminals, two Plates, 125.

16. Ghent, La Maison de Force, - 145.

17. Madrid, Prison, - 155.

18. Bastille, - 174.

19. Lyons, Hotel-Dieu, - 179.

20. London, Newgate, - 213.

21. Plymouth, Royal Hospital, - 388.

22. ----- Ground Plan, - 388.

