THE

STATE

OF THE

PRISONS

IN

ENGLAND and WALES,

WITH

PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS,

AND AN ACCOUNT OF SOME

FOREIGN PRISONS.

By JOHN HOWARD, F. R. S.

Ah little think the gay ----

Whom pleasure, power, and affluence surround.

How many pine in want, and dungeon-glooms;

THOMSON.

WARRINGTON,

PRINTED BY WILLIAM EYRES,

MDCCLXXVII.

TO

THE HONOURABLE

HOUSE OF COMMONS,

IN GRATITUDE

FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT

WHICH THEY HAVE GIVEN

TO THE DESIGN

AND

FOR THE HONOUR

THEY HAVE CONFERRED

ON THE AUTHOR,

THIS BOOK

IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED

BY THEIR

MOST OBEDIENT SERVANT

JOHN HOWARD.

Cardington,

Bedfordshire,

April 5th, 1777.

CONTENTS.

PAGE.

Introduction - 1.

Sect. I.

General View of Distress in Prisons - 7.

Sect. II.

Bad Customs in Prisons - 25.

Sect. III.

Proposed Improvements in the Structure and Management of Prisons - 38.

Sect. IV.

An Account of Foreign Prisons - 78.

Sect. V.

A particular Account of English Prisons - 147.

Tables relative to Fees, Numbers of Criminals, &c. - 477.

Conclusion - 487.

INTRODUCTION.

THE distress of prisoners, of which there are few who have not some imperfect idea, came more immediately under my notice when I was Sheriff of the county of Bedford*; and the circumstance which excited me to activity in their behalf was, the seeing some, who by the verdict of juries were declared not guilty; some, on whom the grand jury did not find such an appearance of guilt as subjected them to trial; and some, whose prosecutors did not appear against them; after having been confined for months, dragged back to gaol, and locked up again till they should pay sundry fees to the gaoler, the clerk of assize, &c.

* In 1773.

2 INTRODUCTION.

In order to redress this hardship, I applied to the justices of the county for a salary to the gaoler in lieu of his fees. The bench were properly affected with the grievance, and willing to grant the relief desired: but they wanted a precedent for charging the county with the expence. I therefore rode into several neighbouring counties in search of a precedent; but I soon learned that the same injustice was practised in them; and looking into the prisons, I beheld scenes of calamity, which I grew daily more and more anxious to alleviate. In order therefore to gain a more perfect knowledge of the particulars and extent of it, by various and accurate observation, I visited most of the County-Gaols in England.

Seeing in two or three of them some poor creatures whose aspect was singularly deplorable, and asking the cause of it, I was answered, "they were lately brought from the Bridewells.” This started a fresh subject of inquiry. I resolved to inspect the Bridewells: and for that purpose I travelled again into the counties where I had been; and, indeed, into all the rest; examining Houses of Correction, City and Town-Gaols. I beheld in many of them, as well as in the County-Gaols, a complication of distress: but my attention was principally fixed by the gaol-fever, and the small-pox, which I saw prevailing to the destruction of multitudes, not only of felons in their dungeons, but of debtors also.

INTRODUCTION. 3

The gaol-fever is no new subject of complaint. I remember Stowe, in his Survey*, speaking of the King's-Bench Prison, says, that in the six years preceding the year 1579, an hundred prisoners died there: and twelve between Michaelmass and March of the last-mentioned year, "through a certain contagion called the sickness of the house;" and I shall presently have occasion, among the fatal effects of this distemper propagated from prisons, and infecting many abroad, to mention an ancient instance of that sort also. These effects are now so notorious, that what terrifies most of us from looking into prisons, is the gaol-distemper so frequent in them.

Upon this subject I was examined in the House of Commons in March 1774; when I had the honour of their thanks. Soon after that, Mr. Popham, Member for Taunton, repeated the humane attempt which had miscarried a few years before; and brought in a bill for the relief of prisoners who should be acquitted, respecting their fees; and another bill for preserving the health of prisoners, and preventing the gaol-distemper. They both passed that sessions. By those acts, the tear was wiped from many an eye; and the legislature had for them "the blessing of many that were ready to perish."

* Vol. II. p. 18.

4 INTRODUCTION.

The great honour done me by the House has excited the curiosity of some to inquire what facts I had collected. This is one reason of the present publication: but it is not the only, nor the principal one. There are still remaining many disorders that ought to be rectified: prisoners suffer great hardships, from which I am desirous to set them free: the gaol-fever is not, as I am persuaded it may be, totally eradicated. These are my motives for printing this book. I think it will shew plainly, that much is yet to be done for the regulation of prisons; and I am not without hope, that the present Parliament will finish what was so laudably begun by the last.

I was called to the first part of my task by my office. To the pursuit of it I was prompted by the sorrows of the sufferers, and love to my country. The work grew upon me insensibly. I could not enjoy my ease and leisure in the neglect of an opportunity offered me by Providence of attempting the relief of the miserable. The attention of Parliament to the subject, led me to conclude that some additional labour would not be lost; and I extended my plan. The difficulty I found in searching out evidence of fraud and cruelty in various articles, together with other sources of distress, obliged me to repeat my visits, and travel over the kingdom more than once; and after all, I suspect that many frauds have been concealed from me; and that sometimes the interest of my informants prevailed over their veracity.

INTRODUCTION. 5

Besides; as I had in my first journeys gathered, from facts and experience, proofs of the mischievous effects of the want of cleanliness and fresh air, I had in my latter visits these strong arguments to enforce my persuasions; and, in consequence, some gaolers grew at last more mindful and complying, for the sake not only of their prisoners, but of themselves and their own families.

It was not, I own, without some apprehensions of danger, when I first visited the prisons; and I guarded myself by smelling to vinegar, while I was in those places, and changing my apparel afterwards. This I did condantly and carefully when I began; but by degrees I grew less cautious: not only because use abated the force of noxious impressions upon me, but also on account of the alteration made in some gaols by the act for preserving the health of prisoners. A person may now look into many a prison without gaining an idea of the condition it was in a few years ago. I wish the reformation to be not for the present only, but lasting. If the motive for amendment has any where been merely temporary, there is no doubt but the effect will cease with the cause: those who from such inducement have obeyed, will in future follow the example of others who have disregarded the law; and prisons that have been amended will relapse into their former state.

6 INTRODUCTION.

As to what is still wrong, I set down matter of fact without amplification; which would in the end rather impede than promote the object of my wishes; that is, the correction of what is really amiss.

The journies were not undertaken for the traveller's amusement; and the collections are not published for general entertainment; but for the perusal of those who have it in their power to give redress to the sufferers.

The writer begs his reader to excuse the frequent egotisms which he did not know how to avoid, without using circumlocutions that might have been more disgusting.

SECTION I.

GENERAL VIEW OF DISTRESS IN PRISONS.

THERE are prisons, into which whoever looks will, at first sight of the people confined there, be convinced, that there is some great error in the management of them: the fallow meagre countenances declare, without words, that they are very miserable: many who went in healthy, are in a few months changed to emaciated dejected objects. Some are seen pining under diseases, "sick and in prison,” expiring on the floors, in loathsome cells, of pestilential fevers, and the confluent small-pox: victims, I must not say to the cruelty, but I will say to the inattention, of sheriffs, and gentlemen in the commission of the peace.

The cause of this distress is, that many prisons are scantily supplied, and some almost totally unprovided with the necessaries of life.

8 GENERAL VIEW OF

[Food.]

THERE are several Bridewells (to begin with them) in which prisoners have no allowance of food at all. In some, the keeper farms what little is allowed them: and where he engages to supply each prisoner with one or two pennyworth of bread a day, I have known this shrunk to half, sometimes less than half the quantity, cut or broken from his own loaf.

It will perhaps be asked, does not their work maintain them? for every one knows that those offenders are committed to hard labour. The answer to that question, though true, will hardly be believed. There are very few Bridewells in which any work is done, or can be done. The prisoners have neither tools, nor materials of any kind; but spend their time in sloth, profaneness and debauchery, to a degree which, in some of those houses that I have seen, is extremely shocking.

Some keepers of these houses, who have represented to the magistrates the wants of their prisoners, and desired for them necessary food, have been silenced with these inconsiderate words, Let them work or starve. When those gentlemen know the former is impossible, do they not by that sentence, inevitably doom poor creatures to the latter?

I have asked some keepers, since the late act for preserving

Sect. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 9

the health of prisoners, why no care is taken of their sick: and have been answered, that the magistrates tell them the act does not extend to Bridewells*.

In consequence of this, at the quarter sessions you see prisoners, covered (hardly covered) with rags; almost famished; and sick of diseases, which the discharged spread wherever they go, and with which those who are sent to the County-Gaols infect these prisons.

The same complaint, want of food, is to be found in many county-gaols. In about half these, debtors have no bread; although it is granted to the highwayman, the house-breaker, and the murderer; and medical assistance, which is provided for the latter, is withheld from the former. In many of these Gaols, debtors who would work are not permitted to have any tools, lest they should furnish felons with them for escape or other mischief. I have often seen those prisoners eating their water-soup (bread boiled in mere water) and heard them say, "We are locked up and almost starved to death.”

As to the relief provided for Debtors by the benevolent

* If the late act does not include Bridewells, it is required, by an act 7th James I. Cap. IV. that "the Masters and Governors of .... Houses of Correction shall have some fit allowance .... for the relieving of such as shall happen to be weak and sick in their custody.”

10 GENERAL VIEW OF

act, 32d of George II. (commonly called the lords act, because it originated in their house) I did not find in all England and Wales (except the counties of Middlesex and Surrey) twelve debtors who had obtained from their creditors the four-pence a day, to which they had a right by that act: the means of procuring it were out of their reach. In one of my journeys I found near six hundred prisoners, whose debts were under twenty pounds each: some of them did not owe above three or four pounds: and the expence of sueing for the aliment is in many places equal to those smaller debts for which some of these prisoners had been confined several months.

At Carlisle but one debtor of the forty-nine whom I saw there had obtained his groats: and the gaoler told me that during the time he had held that office, which was fourteen years, no more than four or five had received it; and that they were soon discharged by their creditors neglecting to pay it. No one debtor had the aliment in York Castle, Devon, Cheshire, Kent, and many other counties. The truth is, some debtors are the most pitiable objects in our gaols.

To their wanting necessary food, I must add not only the demands of gaolers, &c. for fees; but also the extortion of bailiffs. These detain in their houses (properly enough denominated spunging-houses) at an enormous expence, prisoners

Sect. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS.

who have money. I know there is a legal provision against this oppression; but the mode of obtaining redress (like that of recovering the groats) is attended with difficulty: and the abuse continues. The rapine of these extortioners needs some more effectual and easy check: no bailiff should be suffered to keep a public house*; the mischiefs occasioned by their so doing, are complained of in many parts of the kingdom.

Here I beg leave to mention the hard case of prisoners confined on exchequer processes; and those from the ecclesiastical courts: the latter are excluded from the privilege of bail; and the former from the benefit of insolvent acts.

Felons have in some Gaols two pennyworth of bread a day; in some three halfpennyworth; in some a pennyworth; in some a shilling a week: the particulars will be seen hereafter in their proper places. I often weighed the bread in different prisons, and found the penny loaf 7½ to 8½ ounces, the other loaves in proportion. It is probable that when this allowance was fixed by its value, near double the quantity that the money will now purchase, might be bought for

* By the statute 32d George II. it is enacted, that "No sheriff, bailiff, &c. .... shall convey any person arrested .... to any public victualling or other drinkinghouse .... without the consent of the person so arrested.” Now if the bailiff himself keeps a public house, this seems to preclude the debtor's choice; he must go to a public house, or directly to gaol.

12 GENERAL VIEW OF

it: yet the allowance continues unaltered: and it is not uncommon to see the whole purchase, especially of the smaller sums, eaten at breakfast: which is sometimes the case when they receive their pittance but once in two days; and then on the following day they must fast.

This allowance being so far short of the cravings of nature, and in some prisons lessened by farming to the gaoler, many criminals are half starved: such of them as at their commitment were in health, come out almost famished, scarce able to move, and for weeks incapable of any labour.

[Water.]

Many prisons have no water. This defect is frequent in Bridewells, and Town-Gaols. In the felons courts of some County-Gaols there is no water: in some places where there is water, prisoners are always locked up within doors, and have no more than the keeper or his servants think fit to bring them: in one place they are limited to three pints a day each — a scanty provision for drink and cleanliness

[Air.]

And as to air, which is no less necessary than either of the two preceding articles, and given us by Providence quite gratis, without any care or labour of our own; yet, as if the bounteous goodness of Heaven excited our envy, methods are contrived to rob prisoners of this genuine cordial of life, as Dr. Hales very properly calls it: I mean by preventing

Sect. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 13

that circulation and change of the salutiferous fluid, without which animals cannot live and thrive. It is well known that air which has performed its office in the lungs, is feculent and noxious. Writers upon the subject shew, that a hogshead of it will last a man only an hour: but those who do not choose to consult philosophers, may judge from a notorious fact. In 1756, at Calcutta in Bengal, out of 170 persons who were confined in a hole there one night, 154 were taken out dead. The few survivors ascribed the mortality to their want of fresh air, and called the place, from what they suffered there, Hell in miniature!

Air which has been breathed, is made poisonous to a more intense degree by the effluvia from the sick, and what else in prisons is offensive. My reader will judge of its malignity, when I assure him, that my cloaths were in my first journeys so offensive, that in a post-chaise I could not bear the windows drawn up: and was therefore often obliged to travel on horseback. The leaves of my memorandum-book were often so tainted, that I could not use it till after spreading it an hour or two before the fire: and even my antidote, a vial of vinegar, has after using it in a few prisons, become intolerably disagreeable. I did not wonder that in those journies many gaolers made excuses, and did not go with me into the felons wards*.

* I learn from a Letter to Sir Robert Ladbroke, printed in 1771, page 11, that "Dr. Hales, Sir John Pringle, and others have observed, that air, corrupted

14 GENERAL VIEW OF

From hence any one may judge of the probability there is against the health and life of prisoners, crowded in close rooms, cells, and subterraneous dungeons, for fourteen or sixteen hours out of the four and twenty. In some of those caverns the floor is very damp: in others there is sometimes an inch or two of water; and the straw, or bedding is laid on such floors, seldom on barrack bedsteads. Where prisoners are not kept in underground cells, they are often confined to their rooms, because there is no court* belonging to the prison, which is the case in most City and Town-Gaols: or because the walls round the yard are ruinous, or too low for safety: or because the gaoler has the ground for his own use. Prisoners confined in this manner, are generally unhealthy.

[Sewers.]

Some Gaols have no sewers; and in those that have, if they be not properly attended to, they are, even to a visitant, offensive beyond expression: how noxious then to people constantly confined in those prisons!

One cause why the rooms in some prisons are so close,

"and putrified, is of such a subtil and powerful nature, as to rot and dissolve heart of oak; and that the walls of buildings have been impregnated with this poisonous matter for years together.” The writer quotes for his authority a letter of Sir Stephen Theodore Janssen, which I have not been able to procure.

* An act made in Ireland the 3d year of his present Majesty, "for better preventing the severities, &c.” has the following clause: "Whereas many infectious disorders are daily produced by the confinement of numbers in close prisons, whereunto there is no back-yard adjoining, and the lives of his Majesty's subjects are endangered by the bringing of prisoners into public streets for air; Be it

Sect. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 15

is perhaps the window-tax, which the gaolers have to pay: this tempts them to flop the windows, and stifle their prisoners*.

[Bedding.]

In many Gaols, and in most Bridewells, there is no allowance of straw for prisoners to sleep on; and if by any means they get a little, it is not changed for months together, so that it is almost worn to dust. Some lie upon rags, others upon the bare floors. When I have complained of this to the keepers, their justification has been, "The county allows no straw, the prisoners have none but at my cost.”

[Morals.]

THE evils mentioned hitherto affect the health and life of prisoners: I have now to complain of what is pernicious to their morals and that is, the confining all sorts of prisoners together: debtors and felons, men and women; the young beginner and the old offender: and with all these, in

"enacted .... That every grand jury at the assizes or quarter sessions .... may be enabled, and they are hereby required and directed, to contract either by lease, or to purchase a piece of ground next adjoining the Gaol, or as near as conveniently can be had thereto, &c."

* This is also the case in many work-houses and farm-houses, where the poor and the labourer are lodged in rooms that have no light, nor fresh air: which may be a cause of our peasants not having the healthy ruddy complexions one used to see so common twenty or thirty years ago. The difference has often struck me in my various journeys.

16 GENERAL VIEW OF

some counties, such as are guilty of misdemeanors only; who should have been committed to Bridewell, to be corrected by diligence and labour; but for want of food, and the means of procuring it in those prisons, are in pity sent to such County-Gaols as afford these offenders prison-allowance.

Few prisons separate men and women in the day-time. In some counties the Gaol is also the Bridewell; in others those prisons are contiguous, and the yard common. There the petty offender is committed for instruction to the most profligate. In some Gaols you see (and who can see it without pain?) boys of twelve or fourteen eagerly listening to the stories told by practised and experienced criminals, of their adventures, successes, stratagems, and escapes.

I must here add, that in some few Gaols are confined idiots and lunatics. These serve for sport to idle visitants at assizes, and other times of general resort. The insane, where they are not kept separate, disturb and terrify other prisoners. No care is taken of them, although it is probable that by medicines, and proper regimen, some of them might be restored to their senses, and to usefulness in life.

[Gaol-Fever.]

I AM ready to think, that none who give credit to what is contained in the foregoing pages, will wonder at the havock made by the gaol-fever. From my own observations

Sect. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 17

in 1773 and 1774, I was fully convinced that many more were destroyed by it, than were put to death by all the public executions in the kingdom*. This frequent effect of confinement in prison seems generally understood, and shews how full of emphatical meaning is the curse of a severe creditor, who pronounces his debtor's doom to rot in gaol. I believe I have learned the full import of this sentence, from the vast numbers who to my certain knowledge, some of them before my eyes, have perished in our Gaols.

But the mischief is not confined to prisons. Not to mention now the number of Jailors, and of families in America, that have been infected by transports, since this mode of punishment is by a late act suspended. Multitudes catch the distemper by going to their relatives and acquaintance in the Gaols: many others from prisoners discharged: and not a few in the courts of judicature.

In Baker's Chronicle, page 353, that historian mentioning the Assize held in Oxford Castle 1577 (called from its

* I have a Table printed From a large copper-plate, 1772, by Sir Stephen Theodore Janssen, shewing the number of malefactors executed in London for the twenty-three preceding years; and the crimes for which they suffered. I will give an abridgement of it in two tables at the end of the book, In them it will be seen, that the total number of executions in London for those twenty-three years, was 678; the annual average is between 29 and 30. I leave to others the discussion of the question, whether those executions were too numerous, whether all the crimes

18 GENERAL VIEW OF

fatal consequence the Black Assize) informs us, that "all who were present died within forty hours: the Lord Chief Baron, the Sheriff, and about three hundred more.” Lord Chancellor Bacon ascribes this to a disease brought into court by the prisoners; and Dr. Mead is of the same opinion.

The first of these two authors, Lord Bacon, observes, that "the most pernicious infection next the plague, is the smell of the jail; when the prisoners have been long and close and nastily kept: whereof we have had, in our time, experience twice or thrice; when both the judges that sat upon the jail, and numbers of those who attended the business, or were present, sickened upon it and died.”*

At the Lent Assize in Taunton, 1730, some prisoners who were brought thither from Ivelchester Gaol, infected the court; and Lord Chief Baron Pengelly; Sir James Sheppard, Serjeant; John Pigot, Esq. Sheriff, and some hundreds besides, died of the gaol-distemper. At Axminster,

for which it was inflicted (many of which will be distinctly set down) were deserving of death. And it may be left to any one to judge, whether, including debtors and petty offenders, the number of those that died in the several London prisons of the Gaol-Fever, does not exceed the number of those that were executed annually during that time. — I have not the number of executions in all the counties, but am well assured it falls still much shorter of the number that perished in prisons.

* Natural History, Exp. 914.

SECT. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 19

a little town in Devonshire, a prisoner discharged from Exeter Gaol in 1755, infected his family with that disease: of which two of them died; and many others in that town afterwards. The numbers that were carried off by the same malady in London in 1750, two judges, the lord mayor, one alderman, and many of inferior rank, are too well known to need the mentioning further particulars.

Sir John Pringle observes, that "jails have often been the cause of malignant fevers;” and he informs us, that in the late rebellion in Scotland, above 200 men of one regiment were infected with the jail-fever, by some deserters brought from prisons in England*.

Dr. Lind, Physician to the Royal Hospital at Haslar, near Portsmouth, shewed me in one of the wards a number of sailors ill of the gaol-fever; brought on board their Ship by a man who had been discharged from a prison in London. The Ship was laid up on the occasion. That gentleman, in his Essay on the Health of Seamen, asserts, that "The source of infection to our armies and fleets are undoubtedly the jails; we can often trace the importers of it directly from them. It often proves fatal in impressing men on the hasty equipment of a fleet†. The first

* Observations on the Diseases of the Army, p. 296, and 47.

† Page 307.

20 GENERAL VIEW OF

"English fleet sent last war to America, lost by it above 2000 men.” In another place he assures us, that "the seeds of infection were carried from the guard-ships into our squadrons — and the mortality, thence occasioned, was greater than by all other diseases or means of death put together.”*

It were easy to multiply instances of this mischief; but those which have been mentioned are, I presume, sufficient to shew, even if no mercy were due to prisoners, that the Gaol-Distemper is a national concern of no small importance.

[Vicious Examples.]

THE general prevalence and spread of wickedness in prisons, and abroad by the discharged prisoners, will now be as easily accounted for, as the propagation of disease. It is often said, "A prison pays no debts;” I am sure it may be added, that a prison mends no morals. Sir John Fielding observes, that "a criminal discharged — generally by the next sessions after the execution of his comrades, becomes the head of a gang of his own raising.” Improved, no doubt, in skill by the company he kept in gaol: and petty offenders who are committed to Bridewell for a year or two, and spend that time, not in hard labour, but in idleness and wicked company, or are sent for that time to County-Gaols,

* Page 5.

SECT. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 21

generally grow desperate, and come out fitted, for the perpetration of any villainy. How directly contrary this to the intention of our laws with regard to these offenders; which certainly is to correct and reform them! Instead of which, their confinement doth notoriously promote and increase the very vices it was designed to suppress. Multitudes of young creatures, committed for some trifling offence, are totally ruined there. I make no scruple to affirm, that if it were the wish and aim of Magistrates to effect the destruction present and future of young delinquents, they could not devise a more effectual method, than to confine them so long in our prisons, those seats and seminaries (as they have been very properly called) of idleness and every vice.

Shall these irregularities, the sources of misery, disease, and wickedness, be endured in a nation celebrated for good sense and humanity; and who from these principles, do treat one sort of prisoners with tenderness and generality? I mean prisoners of war. These have provision in plenty; some to spare and sell to the soldiers on guard*: we frequently saw

* The daily allowance to six prisoners was,

9 pounds of bread,

4½_ pounds of beef,

3 pints of pease,

6 quarts of beer,

Water plenty.

On Friday they had not the beef; but a pound and half of butter instead of it.

On board the men of war, indeed, they were upon short allowance.

22 GENERAL VIEW OF

their stated allowance hung up for their inspection. Some prisons had large areas for them to walk in; and at night every man had a hammock to himself. It is the farthest thing in the world from my wish to deprive captives of any one of these benefits — I am only desirous of seeing the same humanity shown to our own countrymen in distress; so that a consistent and uniform practice may prove our benevolence to be a firm and steady principle; and that those who are censorious may find no occasion for ascribing our kind usage of foreigners to a less amiable motive.

Here it will be said, prisoners of war are not felons, nor yet debtors; and government is sometimes at the end of a war, reimbursed the expence of maintaining them. This latter I believe is fact; and the former is true without dispute: we do not look upon foreign enemies, nor they upon us*, as delinquents: we cut one another to pieces in battle,

* I must not be understood to mean here a compliment to the French. How they treat English prisoners of war, I knew by experience in 1756; when a Lisbon packet (the Hanover) in which I went passenger, in order to make the tour of Portugal, was taken by a French privateer. Before we reached Brest, I suffered the extremity of thirst, not having for above forty hours one drop of water; nor hardly a morsel of food. In the castle at Brest, I lay six nights upon straw: and observing how cruelly my countrymen were used there, and at Morlaix, whither I was carried next; during the two months I was at Carhaix upon parole, I corresponded with the English prisoners at Brest, Morlaix, and Dinnan: at the last of those towns were several of our ship's crew, and my servant. I had sufficient evidence of their being treated with such barbarity, that many hundreds had perished;

SECT. I. DISTRESS IN PRISONS. 23

but when that is over we grow cool and compassionate. I grant there is a material difference in the circumstances of foreign and domestic prisoners, but there is none in their nature: debtors and felons, as well as hostile foreigners, are men, and by men they ought to be treated as men.

Those gentlemen who, when they are told of the misery which our prisoners suffer, content themselves with saying, Let them take care to keep out, prefaced perhaps, with an angry prayer, seem not duly sensible of the favour of Providence which distinguishes them from the sufferers: they do not remember that we are required to imitate our gracious Heavenly Parent, who is "kind to the unthankful and the evil." They also forget the vicissitudes of human affairs; the unexpected changes to which all men are liable; and that those whose circumstances are affluent, may in time be reduced to indigence, and become debtors and prisoners.

and that thirty-six were buried in a hole at Dinnan in one day. When I came to England, still on parole, I made known to the Commissioners of sick and wounded seamen, the sundry particulars; which gained their attention, and thanks. Remonstrance was made to the French court: our sailors had redress: and those that were in the three prisons mentioned above, were brought home in the first cartel ships. — A Lady from Ireland, who married in France, had bequeathed in trust with the magistrates of St. Malo's, sundry charities; one of which was a penny a day to every English prisoner of war in Dinnan. This was duly paid; and saved the lives of many brave and useful men. Perhaps what I suffered on this occasion, increased my sympathy with the unhappy people, whose case is the subject of this book.

24 GENERAL VIEW, &c.

But it may be said, enough of the declamatory kind has been written by others. Much it is true, has been written: yet I beg leave to transcribe, a few lines from a celebrated author, which may be thought to come under that description. After representing the calamitous case of prisoners, he goes on to this purpose, "The misery of Gaols is not half their evil; they are filled with every corruption which poverty and wickedness can generate between them; with all the shameless and profligate enormities that can be produced by the impudence of ignominy, the rage of want, and the malignity of despair. In a prison the awe of the public eye is lost, and the power of the law is spent; there are few fears, there are no blushes. The lewd inflame the lewd, the audacious harden the audacious. Every one fortifies himself as he can against his own sensibility, endeavours to practise on others the arts which are practised on himself; and gains the kindness of his associates by similitude of manners.”*

BESIDES the grievances already mentioned; there are several bad customs in Gaols, and relating to them, which aggravate the distress of prisoners. I shall enumerate these distinctly, yet concisely.

* The Idler, No. 38.

SECTION II.

BAD CUSTOMS IN PRISONS.

[Garnish.]

A CRUEL custom obtains in most of our Gaols, which is that of the prisoners demanding of a new comer Garnish, Footing, or (as it is called in some London Gaols) Chummage. "Pay or strip,” are the fatal words. I say fatal, for they are so to some; who having no money, are obliged to give up part of their scanty apparel; and if they have no bedding or straw to sleep on, contract diseases, which I have known to prove mortal.

In many Gaols, to the Garnish paid by the new comer, those who were there before make an addition; and great part of the following night is often spent in riot and drunkenness. The gaoler or tapster finding his account in this practice, generally answers questions concerning it with reluctance. Of the Garnish which I have set down to sundry

26 BAD CUSTOMS.

prisons, I often had my information from prisoners who paid it. But I am aware that the sum is sometimes varied by sets of succeeding prisoners, and the different circumstances of a new comer. In some Gaols, if a Felon can pay the Debtor's Garnish (which is commonly more than that of the Felons) he is entitled to partake of the Garnish paid afterwards by new-come Debtors. In some places, this demand has been lately waved: in others, strictly prohibited by the Magistrates.

[Gaming.]

Gaming in various forms is very frequent: cards, dice, skittles, Missisippi and Portobello tables, billiards, fives, tennis, &c. In the country the three first are most common; and especially cards. There is scarce a County-Gaol but is furnished with them: and one can seldom go in without seeing prisoners at play. In London, all the sorts that I have named are in use. I am not an enemy to diverting exercise: yet the riot, brawling, and profaneness, that are the usual consequents of their play; the circumstances of debtors gaming away the property of their creditors, which I know they have done in some prisons to a considerable amount; accomplishing themselves in the frauds of gamblers, who, if they be not themselves prisoners, are fare to haunt where gaming is practised; hindering their fellow-prisoners who do not play from walking in the yards while they do, of which inconvenience I have heard them complain: these seem to me cogent reasons for prohibiting

Sect. II. BAD CUSTOMS. 27

all kinds of gaming within the walls of a prison.

[Irons.]

Loading prisoners with heavy irons, which make their walking, and even lying down to sleep, difficult and painful, is another custom which I cannot but condemn. In some County-Gaols the women do not escape this severity: but in London they do: and therefore it is not necessary in the country. The practice must be mere tyranny; unless it proceed from avarice; which I rather suspect; because county-gaolers do sometimes grant dispensations, and indulge their prisoners, men as well as women, with what they call "the choice of irons,” if they will pay for it.

The author of the letter to Sir Robert Ladbroke on prisons (particularly on Newgate, which was then to be rebuilt) cites in page 79, the opinion of Lord Coke, Horn's Mirror of Justice, &c. against this oppression and adds afterwards, "The learned editor of Hale's History of the Pleas of the Crown likewise declares, that fetters ought not to be used, unless there is just reason to fear an escape, as where the prisoner is unruly, or makes an attempt to that purpose; otherwise, notwithstanding the common practice of gaolers, it seems altogether unwarrantable, and contrary to the mildness and humanity of the laws of England, by which gaolers are forbid to put their prisoners to any pain or torment.”

28 BAD CUSTOMS.

The Gentlemen of the Gaol-Committee, who distinguished themselves by an accurate and zealous inquiry into the abuses practised by gaolers*; in their Report concerning the Fleet Prison, 20th March 1728, after mentioning a petition presented to the Judges by one who had been put in irons by the Wardens, inform us, that the Judges reprimanded the Wardens, and declared, that "a gaoler could not answer the ironing of a man before he was found guilty of a crime.” — To the plea which gaolers use in defence of this practice, that "It is necessary for safe custody,” an answer may be given in the words of Lord Chief Justice King (afterwards Lord Chancellor) to the Wardens of the same prison, when he forbade dungeons, which they had made use of. That Judge declared, "they might raise their walls higher, &c.” See the Report of the same Committee.

* This Committee is celebrated by Thomson, In the following lines of his Winter, 340, &c. edit. 1738.

— Can I forget the generous few.

Who, touch'd with human woe, redressive sought

Into the horrors of the gloomy jail

Unpitied, and unheard, where misery moans;

Where sickness pines; —

Hail Patriot Band! who, scorning secret scorn,

When Justice, and when Mercy led the way,

Dragg'd the detested monsters into light,

Sect. II. BAD CUSTOMS. 29

To what Lord King suggested of raising the walls, one might presume to add — The number of turnkeys should be increased in proportion to the number of prisoners*.

The Marquis Beccaria, in his Essay on Crimes and Punishments, page 75, observes that Imprisonment being "only the means of securing the person of the accused, until he be tried — ought — to be attended with as little severity as possible.” The distress occasioned by chains is increased by

[Varying Towns.]

Varying the towns where Quarter Sessions and Assizes are held: so that prisoners have to walk in irons ten or fifteen miles to their trial: and sometimes to towns that have no prison: where numbers of both sexes are shut up together for many days and nights in one room. This occasions

Wrench'd from their hand Oppression's iron rod.

________

Much still untouch'd remains

Much is the Patriot's weeding hand requir'd.

* If the daring character of our felons should seem, after all, to make it necessary to confine them in irons, it would be right, at least, to bring them into court for their trial without irons. When I was in Scotland, I was informed that every prisoner there was tried out of irons, and when acquitted, discharged in open court.

30 BAD CUSTOMS.

such confusion and distress, and such shrieks and outcries, as can be better conceived than described. Surely prisoners ought to be conveyed in carts; or else committed at first to the town where the Sessions or Assizes are to be held. And in that town a proper prison ought to be built.

[Gaol Delivery.]

Gaol Delivery is in some, counties but once a year. What reparation can be made to a poor creature for the misery he has suffered by confinement in a prison near twelve months (sometimes twice as long) before a trial, in which perhaps he is at last declared by his country not guilty?

The judicious Marquis whom I quoted but now asserts, that "Privation of liberty being a punishment, ought not to be inflicted before condemnation, but for as short a time as possible.” And in cases of guilt, his doctrine is, "The more immediately after the commission of a crime, a punishment is inflicted, the more just and useful it will be.” This sentiment is illustrated by a variety of acute remarks in the chapter of the Advantage of immediate Punishment.

One cause of Gaol Delivery being so seldom, is in some places the expence of entertaining the Judges and their retinue. At Hull they used to have the Assize but once in

Sect. II. BAD CUSTOMS. 31

seven years. Peacock a murderer was in prison there near three years: before his trial the principal witness died; and the criminal was acquitted. They now have it once in three years.

Although acquitted prisoners are by the late act in their favour* cleared of Gaolers Fees;

[Clerks of Assize, &c.]

they are still subject to a similar demand made by clerks of assize and clerks of the peace†; and detained in prison several days after their acquittal — at Assize, till the Judges — at Quarter Sessions, till the Justices of Peace leave the town; in order to obtain those fees, which the gentlemen say are not cancelled by the act. And yet the express words of it are, Acquitted prisoners "shall be immediately let at large in open court.”

Since the said act the Clerks of Assize in some circuits have started a new demand upon the gaoler for the Judges

* 14th George III.

† See the Table of the Fees of the Clerk of Assize at the end of the book. The Clerk of the Peace in one county demands as follows:

For larceny and acquitted. £1: 7: 0

Petty larceny, 1: 8: 4

Whipped publicly, 1: 3: 4

Bastardy, 0: 17: 4

32 BAD CUSTOMS.

certificate of acquitment; viz. six shillings and eight-pence for the first prisoner acquitted; and a shilling for each of the rest or two shillings for every one. I know some of these gentlemen do not make any such demand. Where it is made, some gaolers refuse to pay it; others submit murmuring. I have copies of two receipts given by the Clerk of the Western circuit to the gaolers of Exeter and Salisbury*.

I was informed at Durham, that Judge Gould at the Assize 1775 laid a fine of fifty pounds on the gaoler for detaining some acquitted prisoners, for the fees of the Clerk of Assize. But upon the intercession of the Bishop (proprietor of the Gaol) the fine was remitted, and the prisoners set at large: the Judge ordering the Clerk of Assize to explain to him in London the foundation of his demand.

One pretence for detaining acquitted prisoners is, that "It is possible other indictments may be laid against them

* One of them is as follows.

"RECEIVED 1 April 1775 of Mr. Sherry gaoler one pound eight shillings and 8 pence for his certificate entitling him to his gaol fees for the county of Devon

per

Clerk of the Assize."

The gaoler told me this was for twenty-three acquitted prisoners.

BAD CUSTOMS. 33

"before the Judge leaves the town.” I call it a pretence, because it is often waved upon paying the fees. Another is, the gaoler tells you, "He takes them back to knock off their irons.” But this may be done in court: in London they have an engine or block, by the help of which they take off the irons with ease in a minute or two; the machine is brought into court, and the acquitted prisoner is immediately discharged. If, according to what I formerly proposed, prisoners were tried out of irons, this pretext would be entirely removed.

Clerks of Assize, and of the Peace, ought most certainly to have a consideration for their service to the public: and I do not wish to lessen many other emoluments of those gentlemen. The only thing I complain of is, what I am led to by my subject, the demand that is made directly or indirectly upon prisoners.

[Gaolers Non-resident.]

Some gaolers live distant from the prison, in houses that do not belong to the county. Non-residence is not consistent with the attention that is requisite for securing the prisoners; and preserving good order, cleanliness, &c.

[Wives and Children.]

Debtors crowd the Gaols (especially those in London) with their wives and children. There are often by this means, ten or twelve people in a middle-sized room: increasing the danger of infection, and corrupting the morals

34 BAD CUSTOMS.

of children. This point ought (no doubt) to be treated with tenderness. Man and wife should not be totally separated. Yet the little probability there is of an industrious woman being of much service to her family in a prison: the number of men in the same room; and of lewd women admitted under the name of wives, prove that this affair needs some regulation.

[Gaols Private Property.]

Some Gaols are private property: in these the keepers, protected by the proprietors, and not so subject as other gaolers to the controul of magistrates, are more apt to abuse their prisoners, when a temptation offers. One of these Gaols some years ago was quite out of repair, and unsafe; and the proprietor not choosing to repair it, the gaoler to confine his prisoners took a method, that to all who saw it was really shocking. Some years before that, a prisoner in another of these Gaols was tormented with thumb-screws. The grand jury took up the case, and remonstrated to the proprietor; but in vain. I had the account from a worthy friend of mine, who was upon that very jury.

OF the complaints which I have hitherto made only in general terms, I shall give instances in the account of particular prisons. To that account I refer, for evidence and fact.

Sect. II 35

NUMBER OF PRISONERS.

IN the Spring 1776, I summed up carefully the total number of prisoners in the sundry prisons. I have not altered the list since my latter visits, in which I saw the number in several prisons greatly reduced by the insolvent Act. My list was as follows.

Debtors. Felons, &c. Petty Offenders. Total.

1. IN Middlesex, i.e. London and Westminster; together with three prisons in Southwark, viz. the King's-Bench, Marshalsea, and Borough-Compter, - 1274 - 228 - 194 - 1696

2. In the other thirty-nine counties of England, - 752 - 617 - 459 - 1828

3. In the twelve counties of Wales, - 67 - 27 - 0 - 94

4. In City and Town-Gaols, - 344 - 122 - 0 - 466

2437 - 994 - 653 - 4084

Petty Offenders in the Welch County-Goals, blank in the third column, third line, are included in the preceding number of Felons 27: most of the Goals in those counties being also the County-Bridewells.

36 NUMBER OF PRISONERS.

Petty Offenders, blank in third column, fourth line, are included in the number 459 of Petty Offenders in the thirty-nine County-Gaols; and in the number 122, second column fourth line.

All that were in the County-Gaols besides Debtors, I have reckoned in the list of Felons. Although many were Petty Offenders and Fines.

In the third column, under Petty Offenders are included a few Felons occasionally committed to Bridewells.

I have found by carefully examining sundry Gaols, that upon an average two dependants (by which I mean wives and children only*) may be assigned to each man in prison. My computation is confirmed by the account which we have from the Benevolent Society at the Thatched House, October 9th, 1776, as follows. Since their institution in 1772,

Discharged Debtors - 3980

Who had Wives, - 2193

And Children, - 6288

Persons immediately benefited, - 12461

* I do not include Parents, many of whom I have seen sorrowfully attending at prisons, and deeply sharing in the distress arising from the confinement of their children.

Sect. II. NUMBER OF PRISONERS. 37

And by the account from the Bristol Society; who in their list published May 31st, 1775, have

Persons discharged, - 73

Their Wives, - 45

Their Children, - 120

Total, - 238

Each of these totals is considerably larger than the respective products of multiplication by my rule: the first exceeds by 521, the latter by 19. There is indeed commonly a surplus among Debtors; but a deficiency among Felons, &c. reduces the average of Dependants to that which I Rated.

If then to the total number in England and Wales, that is, - 4084

You add twice that number of Dependants, - 8168

The number of the distressed is, - 12252

IT appears from the foregoing Table of Prisoners, that their number has been greatly magnified by conjectural computations; but surely the real number, with that of those partaking their distress, is an object well worthy the farther attention of the Legislature.

SECTION III.

PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS

IN THE STRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT

OF PRISONS.

HOWEVER sanguinary the wish of an angry creditor may be when he arrests and imprisons his debtor, there is no doubt but every one who listens, not to his passions, but to reason, must know, and will own, that it is a flagrant crime to take away the life of a man for debt: and as to felony, a Gaol is not designed for the final punishment even of that; but for the safe custody of the accused to the time of trial; and of convicts till a legal sentence be executed upon them. The laws of England do not suffer private executions. No condemned malefactor may be secretly put to death; nor murdered in a prison directly or indirectly: much less ought those to be destroyed there whose sentence does not affect their life. Their destruction is not only unjust; it is inconsistent with

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 39

prudence and sound policy. They might no doubt be useful at home or abroad; if proper care were taken in prison, to keep them healthy and fit for labour: but certain it is, that many of those who survive their long confinement, are by it rendered incapable of working. Some of them are grievously affected with scorbutic distempers; others have their toes mortified*, or quite rotted from their feet; many instances of which I have seen.

If one who has turned King's Evidence, or has been barely acquitted upon trial, terrified by his narrow escape, seeks for honest employment he is commonly such a sickly miserable object that no one will set him to work. That, I believe, is the principal cause of his being rejected; for there are several sorts of labour that require but little confidence: yet the poor acquitted prisoner shall go from door to door asking for work, in vain. Is it not to be lamented, that every spark of good intention, instead of being cherished, should be thus extinguished? And that the penitent should by an almost irresistible necessity be driven again, though reluctant, to the practice which soon brings him

* Messrs Stephenson and Randolph, of Bristol, Contractors for Transport Convicts, complained of this to Mr. Biggs, gaoler at Salisbury, in their letter to him Sept. 13, 1774. "Sore feet proved very fatal. The mortality we met with in our last ship, if repeated in this, will so forfeit us, that we shall never take another. We lost an immense sum by them; and our ship is detained to this moment under quarantine.”

40 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

back to his former mansion; and Shortens a wretched life, that might have been, that fain would have been, an useful one?

In order to redress these various evils, the first thing to be taken into consideration is the Prison itself. Many County-Gaols and other Prisons are so decayed and ruinous, or, for other reasons, so totally unfit for the purpose, that new ones must be built in their stead. Others are very incommodious, but may be improved upon the ground about them, which is occupied by the keeper, or not used at all. Some need little more than a thorough repair. In order to give what little assistance I can to those who must build a new County-Gaol, I will take the liberty to suggest what hath occurred to me upon this head, in hopes that some more skilful hand will undertake the generous and benevolent talk, of carrying to perfection a scheme of which I can only draw the outlines. I shall first say something of the

SITUATION.

A COUNTY-GAOL, and indeed every prison, should be built on a spot that is airy, and if possible near a river, or brook. I have commonly found prisons situated near a river, the cleanest and most healthy. They generally

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 41

have not (they could not well have) subterraneous dungeons, which have been destructive to thousands: and by their nearness to running water, another evil, almost as noxious, is prevented, that is, the drench of sewers.

I said a Gaol should be near a stream; but I must annex this caution; that it be not so near as that either the house or yard shall be within the reach of floods. This circumstance was so little thought of at Appleby in Westmoreland, when their new Gaol was built, that I saw the walls marked from nine inches to three feet high by floods.

If it be not practicable to build near a stream, then an eminence should be chosen: for as the walls round a prison-yard must be so high as greatly to obstruct a free circulation of air; this inconvenience should be lessened by a rising ground: and the prison should not be surrounded by other buildings, nor built in the middle of a town or city.

42 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

THE annexed engraving represents such a plan for a prison as, according to my ideas, unites the greatest advantages with regard to health, order, and security. By the assistance of the references it will explain itself better than can be done by a verbal description. I shall only subjoin a few general remarks on some particulars in the structure.

THAT part of the building which is detached from the walls, and contains the men-felons ward, may be square, Arcades, or rectangular, raised on arcades, that it may be more airy, and leave under it a dry walk in wet weather. Wards over arcades are also best for safety, for I have found that escapes have been most commonly effected by undermining cells* and dungeons. If the felons should find any other means to break out of this raised ward, they will still be stopt by the wall of the yard.

* When I went into Horsham Gaol with the keeper, we saw a heap of stones and rubbish. The felons had been two or three days undermining the foundation of their room, and a general escape was intended that night. We were but just in time to prevent it; for it was almost night when we went in. Our lives were at their mercy: but (thank God) they did not attempt to murder us, and rush out.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 43

[Small Rooms.]

I wish to have so many small rooms or cabins in this ward, that each criminal may sleep alone*. If it be difficult to prevent their being together in the day-time, they should by all means be separated at night. Solitude and silence are favourable to reflection; and may possibly lead them to repentance. Privacy and hours of thoughtfulness are necessary for those who must soon leave the world; and in the Old Newgate there were fifteen cells for persons in this situation, which are still left standing, with the design of annexing them to the new building. The like provision for such as return to society, cannot be less needful. One of the writers cited in the note, Bishop Butler, affirms that it is much more so, "since it must be acknowledged, of greater consequence in a religious, as well as civil respect, how persons live than how they die.”

The separation I am pleading for, especially at night, would prevent escapes, or make them very difficult: for

that is the time in which they are generally planned, and effected. Another reason for separation is, that it would free gaolers from a difficulty of which I have heard them complain: they hardly know where to keep criminals admitted

* See the importance of this separation strongly urged in a letter to Sir Robert Ladbroke, printed for Oliver, 1771. See also a Spital Sermon of Bishop Butler preached before the Magistrates of London, April 14th. 1750, particularly page 20th, &c. And Mr. Hanway's 8th. 10th. and 22d Letters in his book entitled The Defects of Police the Cause of Immorality, &c.

44 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

[King's Evidence.]

to be evidence for the King. These would be murdered by their accomplices if put among them; and in more than one prison, I have seen them, for that reason, put in the women's ward.

Where there are opposite windows they should have shutters; but these should be open all day. In the men-felons ward there should be no glass; nor should the prisoners be allowed to stop the windows with straw. &c.

[Women-Felons.]

The women-felons should be quite separate from the men*: and young criminals from old and hardened offenders. Each of these three classes should also have their day-room or kitchen; and their court-yard and offices all separate.

Every court should be paved for the more convenient washing it; and have a good pump, or pipes laid in; both if possible:

[Pump.]

and the Pump and Pipes should be repaired as soon as they need it; otherwise the Gaols will soon be offensive and unwholesome, as I have always found them to be in such cases. A small stream constantly running in the

* By an Act made in Ireland, 3d of his present Majesty, it is enacted, "That in all Gaols hereafter to be built, there may be distinct apartments for the men and women; and that all Gaolers, whole Gaols will at present admit of such a distinction, may be obliged to separate and keep apart the different sexes.”

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 45

yard is very desireable. In a room or shed near the pump or pipe,

[Bath.]

there should be a Bath (as there is in County-Hospitals) to wash prisoners that come in dirty, or grow dirty afterwards. It should be filled every morning, and let off in the evening through the privies into the drains. There should also be a copper in the shed, to heat a quantity of water sufficient to warm that in the bath; for washing those that are sickly.

[Oven.]

There should likewise be an Oven: nothing so effectually destroys vermin in cloaths and bedding, not purifies them so thoroughly when tainted with infection, as being a few hours in an oven moderately heated†.

[Infirmary.]

The Infirmary or sick wards should be in the most airy part of the yard, quite detached from the rest of the Gaol, and raised on arcades. In the middle of the floor of each room there should be a grate of twelve or eighteen inches square, for a current of air; covered with a shutter or hatch at night. The same contrivance might also be convenient in the other wards.

[Ventilators.]

Besides the grate, it is necessary to have in the wards, but especially in those of the infirmary, Hand-Ventilators to freshen them every day. This machine is of excellent use when most wanted, and when the wind or sail-ventilator is of no service, that is, in calm weather.

* 14th George III. Cap. XLIII.

† See Dr. Lind's Essay on the Health of Seamen, p. 320 and 336,

46 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

Doctor Hales, on the subject, page 12, shews that it will supply seventy-five tons of air in a minute.

The infirmary and sheds will not render the yard unsafe, provided the walls have parapets, or small chevaux de frise.

[Separation of Debtors and Felons.]

Debtors and felons should have wards totally separate: the peace, the cleanliness, the health and morals of debtors cannot be secured otherwise. The Act 22d and 23d Charles II. Chapter 20, requires this separation at night; that debtors may not be disturbed by the curses and other profane language of felons: "Be it enacted, -- That they shall be put, kept, and lodged separate and apart one from another, in distinct rooms.” These words do perhaps in the strict construction imply no more than nocturnal separation. But surely it is a far greater mischief for debtors to be annoyed and corrupted by the wicked conversation of felons all day long, than to be disturbed by it in the night-time. I am not designing to infer from hence, nor yet from the character of the Gentlemen who composed that Parliament, that the Act should be construed according to my view of the argument; or to what I conjecture was their intention. I know it is wrong to explain laws by such a vague principle as the supposed spirit of them. But it seems to me necessary that there should be a total separation. These different sorts of prisoners are indeed generally separated at night. I do not recollect more than two or three Gaols

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 47

where they lodge together, viz. Brecon, Portsmouth, the Borough-Compter, and Clerkenwell Bridewell. I must now add Tothill fields Bridewell, where petty debtors are confined, because Westminster Gatehouse is taken down. Constant reparation is desirable: the Gaol will by that means be kept cleaner: and if the small-pox, or the gaol-fever, should infect one ward, the other at a distance may be free from it. This would also remove the objection that is now made against permitting debtors to work: that is, the danger of their furnishing felons with tools for mischief, or escape.

In the debtors ward there should be a day-room or kitchen;

[Work-shop.]

also a large Workshop for such as are willing to work. Some few Gaols have the latter; and in them I have seen chair-makers, shoe-makers, &c. employed in their several trades; preserving their habit of industry; contributing to the support of their families; and lightening the burthen that by their imprisonment falls on the respective parishes.

Prisoners indicted for felony should not be compelled to work. But I have heard many of them wishing they might be permitted to earn something for their more comfortable support. In some few Gaols they have this privilege, as at Exeter, Norwich, &c.

48 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

[Women-Debtors.]

Women-debtors should have a ward, a court, a pump, &c. to themselves: and no communication should be allowed between the two sexes.

[Debtors Ward.]

The Ward for Men-Debtors should also be over arcades, and placed on one side of the gaoler's house. This house should be in or near the middle of the Gaol, with windows to the felons and the debtors court-yard.

[Chapel.]

A chapel is necessary in a Gaol. I have chosen for it what seems to me a proper situation. It should have a gallery for debtors or women, and the rest may be separated below. Bibles and prayer-books should be chained at convenient distances on each side: those who tear or otherwise damage them should be punished.

[A Plan for a County Gaol inserted here.]

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 49

REGULATIONS.

WITHOUT a due attention to the oeconomy and government of a Prison, it is evident that no contrivance of structure can secure it from being the abode of wickedness, disease, and misery; I shall therefore offer a few hints for the better regulation of a Gaol.

[Gaoler.]

THE first care must be to find a good man for a Gaoler; one that is honest, active, and humane. Such was Abel Dagge, who was formerly keeper of Bristol Newgate. I regretted his death, and revere his memory.

This officer must be sober himself, that he may, by example, as well as authority, restrain drunkenness, and other vices in his prison. To remove a strong temptation to the

50 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

contrary, it is highly requisite that no Gaoler, Turnkey, or other servant be suffered to hold the Tap; or to have any connexion, concern, or interest whatever in the sale of liquors of any kind. Gaolers who hold, or let, the tap, find their account in not only conniving at, but promoting drunkenness and midnight revels. What profligate and debauched company of both sexes, do we see let into our Gaols, that the tap may be kept running! Besides this, the Gaoler's interest in the sale of liquors, may prompt him to be partial in his behaviour to his prisoners; to treat at least with neglect, those who are poor and have nothing to spend; which is the case of far the greater number: while he shall caress dishonest debtors, who take shelter in a prison, in order to live there in riot upon the property of their creditors.

I know that by the statute of 32d George II. a Debtor has a right to send out of the Gaol for liquor and other necessaries*. This is a very judicious provision; and very beneficial to prisoners where they have the full and free use of it. But some Gaolers there are, who find ways to restrain this privilege, for the profits of their tap: whereas if Gaolers were prohibited from all concern in the sale of liquor, this would not only remove that check, and restore to prisoners the free enjoyment of the liberty they are entitled to;

* "At his free will and pleasure, to send for, or to have brought to him -- at seasonable times in the day time, any beer, ale, victuals, or any other necessary food.”

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 51

but would also be the means of suppressing much Intemperance; and perhaps of entirely abolishing Garnish, as well as Clubs or night associations.

That it is necessary to deprive Gaolers of all profits arising from the Tap, I am convinced, not by mere speculation, but by what I have learned from conversation with Gaolers themselves. I asked two of them, whom I found candid and intelligent, "what they thought would be the most likely means of effecting a thorough reformation in Gaols.” The answer I had from both, was to this purpose, "Let no licences be granted for selling beer or wine in Gaols: let it be made some other way worth our while to keep them.”

Gaolers should have salaries proportioned to the trust and trouble; since no office, if faithfully and humanely administered, better deserves an adequate encouragement: yet not so much as to raise them above attention to their duty, and the daily inspection of their Gaols.

The Gaol-Committee, which I have mentioned before, in their Report of the Marshalsea Prison, 14 May 1729, after enumerating many mischiefs which they found had been occasioned by the Gaoler's holding or letting the tap, draw the following conclusion; "This shews the inconveniency of the Keepers having the advantage of the Tap-house, since to advance the rent thereof, and to consume the liquors"

52 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

"there vended, they not only encourage riot and drunkenness, but also prevent the needy prisoner from being supplied by his friends with the meer necessaries of life, in order to encrease an exorbitant gain to their tenants.”

When I was in Ireland (January 1775) I found, not without some surprise, that no liquors were sold in any of the prisons which I saw. Upon inquiry, I learned that there is an Act against it, made in the third year of his present Majesty*.

No Prisoner should be a Turnkey. It is the Gaoler's duty to inspect the wards himself every day, and not to leave this to servants†. The Magistrates of

* The preamble runs thus, "Whereas many frauds and abuses have been committed by Gaolers — brewing of drink, and baking of bread, which they oblige their prisoners to take from them at their own rates — Be it enacted — that no Gaoler or any person in trust for him, shall brew or bake in the Gaol — or in any place — for sale, or keep any shop for the selling of bread, or beer, or ale, or other liquors, under the penalty of five pounds for every such offence.”

† In my first journeys many County-Gaolers excused themselves from going with me into the Felons Ward. In one County-Gaol the Felons told me once and again that the Gaoler had not been in their ward for months. I would not have quoted a report from Felons, if the Turnkey, who was present, had not confirmed their testimony.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 53

Glasgow* have expressly ordered that "The Gaoler every morning and evening, at the opening of, and before the shutting up the prison, shall personally visit every room " and place therein.”

He must encourage and promote cleanliness. For this reason an old or infirm man should not be a Gaoler: when that is the case, all is commonly dirty. He should be compassionate to the sick. If he is ordered to distribute the allowance, he must do justice to the county or city, and to his prisoners, by giving to the latter the full stated quantity.

I have said before, a Gaoler should not live at a distance from his prison†. He should not only reside on the spot, but be constantly at home. Prisoners generally take advantage from his absence.

[Sheriff's Officer.]

For this reason, no Keeper of a Prison should be a Sheriff's Officer. Such are very often abroad; and some of them have acknowledged to me, that

* I ought not here to omit my grateful acknowledgment of the politeness and civility of these Gentlemen, who, on my visit to the place in January 1775, did me the honour of presenting me with the freedom of the city, in a manner truly hospitable and obliging.

† The bad consequences of a contrary police I have often seen and lamented; particularly at Dublin Newgate.

54 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

their business as Officers was incompatible with their duty as Gaolers.

[CHAPLAIN.]

I HAD the pleasure to find a Chaplain appointed to most of the County-Gaols; in consequence of the Act made 13th of his present Majesty. When this office is vacant, it behoves Magistrates not to take the first Clergyman who offers his service, without regarding his real character. They should choose one who is in principle a Christian: who will not content himself with officiating in public; but will converse with the prisoners; admonish the profligate; exhort the thoughtless; comfort the sick; and make known to the condemned that Mercy which is revealed in the Gospel.

In the Life of Bernard Gilpin, page 173, the writer, speaking of his labours, informs us, that "where-ever he came, he used to visit all the Jails and places of confinement; few in the kingdom having at that time* any appointed Minister.” And by his affectionate address "he

* In the reign of Queen Mary, this faithful Minister if the Gospel was to have been a sacrifice: but in his journey from Durham to London, where he expected to suffer, his leg was broken by a fall from his horse; and by that circumstance Providence saved him from the fiery trial: for the bigotted Queen died before his recovery. In the next reign he was promoted to the rich living of Houghton in Northumberland: and it was there he laboured, as is said above.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 55

"is said to have reformed many very abandoned persons in those places.”

In some prisons where there is a Chaplain appointed, no worship is fixed for Sunday: in some where that day is fixed, the Chaplain, choosing his hours, comes sometimes too soon in the morning, sometimes between morning and evening service, at the prisoners dinner-time: in some there is no fixed day at all. It would be proper to have sermon and prayers once at least on the Lord's Day: and prayers two fixed days in the week besides. And if a Chapter of the New Testament were read daily in order by one of the prisoners to the rest, or by the Gaoler*, before the distribution of prison allowance, the time would not be mispent. The reader, if a prisoner, might be allowed a small weekly pension. The Gaoler should not, as some do, hinder any prisoner from attending divine service. He ought to remove every hindrance: and, on Sunday especially, no visitants should be admitted during that time. Visitants who are there before, should go out or attend.

Upon asking at more places than one, "why there were so few prisoners at prayers,” I have been answered, "they are drinking with their friends.” The Gaoler should be constant at Chapel with his prisoners; and set a good example

* See Mr. Smith's Practice at Tothill fields, Westminster,

56 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

for them to follow. The Chaplain who officiates in the Gaol may also be employed at the Bridewell, where the distance will allow; and preach once a Sunday in each prison.

It perhaps will be said, that I propose a great deal of duty to these gentlemen. The Act just recited allows a sum not exceeding fifty pounds a year for their services. Many counties have fixed that salary; but I should hope that Clergymen might be found who would act from a much nobler motive, a regard to the most important interests of their fellow-creatures.

[Surgeon.]

THE late Act for preserving the health of prisoners requires that an experienced Surgeon or Apothecary be appointed to every Gaol: a man of repute in his profession. His business is, in the first place, to order the immediate removal of the sick to the Infirmary. Their irons should be taken off; and they should have, not only medicines, but also diet suitable to their condition. He must diligently and daily visit them himself; not leaving them to journeymen and apprentices. He should constantly inculcate the necessity of cleanliness and fresh air; and the danger of crowding prisoners together. I need not add, that he must report to the Justices at each Quarter Sessions, a state of the health of the prisoners under his care.

At Newgate there are commonly about two hundred prisoners.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 57

Here the danger to them, and to the city from them, is great. To this capital prison in the metropolis, the Magistrates would, in my humble opinion, do well to appoint a Physician, a Surgeon, and Apothecary. One of the two latter to visit each ward in the prison every day. The two Compters are near enough to be taken care of by the same gentlemen; and they need to be visited as constantly. This attention would, in all probability, prevent the spread of any infectious disease in those Gaols; and stop the mouths of County-Gaolers, who, when their prisons are infected, tell you (as I have often heard them) "The distemper was brought from Newgate by prisoners removed from thence by habeas corpus.”

[Fees.]

NO Prisoner should be subject to any demand of Fees. The Gaoler should have a salary in lieu of them; and so should the Turnkeys. Their wages should not be included in the Gaoler's salary: and not only their pay, but the number of them necessary for each prison, should be determined by the Magistrates. Neither of those articles should be left to the interested appointment of a Gaoler. If fees be not abolished, I am sure they should be reduced; and so should the Chamber Rents for Master-side Debtors. In this matter (of the Chambers) another regulation is also needful; that is, no middle-sized room should have more beds than two. The bedding and other furniture should be specified as to articles and value.

58 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

[Free Ward.]

For Common-side Debtors there should be a ward entirely free: they should not be subject to any demand of rent; as in many prisons they are. These prisoners should either be alimented by their creditors without expence and delay; or have from the county the same allowance of every kind (at least) as felons: food, bedding, and medicine.

[Cleanliness.]

IN order to cleanliness, than which scarce any thing in the whole oeconomy of a Gaol is of more importance, every ward and room should be well scraped; and then washed with lime and water during the act of effervescence*, at least twice a year; just after the Lent and Summer Assize: Each ward and room should be swept, and washed, every day, by the respective inhabitant; and some times with hot vinegar. Idle Gaolers affect to excuse their negligence in this respect, by pretending that daily washing would make the rooms too damp, and endanger the health of prisoners. This is mere pretence: the effect is directly contrary. There is not in England a prison more healthy, considering the number of prisoners of the lowest sort, than Tothillfields Bridewell, where the rooms are washed every day. The prisoners do the work by turns: and the healthiness of the prison is a demonstration, that no inconvenience, but great benefit, is the consequence. In Newgate, the prisoner who sweeps the ward has a double allowance of bread. Every

* This is called Lime-white, although whiting is not an ingredient in it.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 59

prisoner should be obliged to wash his hands and face before he comes for his daily allowance; and to keep himself as neat as circumstances will admit*. I have said before, there should be plenty of water in a prison; and need not add now, that prisoners should constantly have free and easy access to it.

Every prisoner who comes to Gaol dirty, should be washed in the cold or warm bath; and his cloaths should be put into the oven, in a sack, on a pair of iron dogs. He should be provided with coarse washing cloaths to wear while his own are thus purifying: washing cloaths should be kept ready in the Gaol for this purpose. Each prisoner should have a clean shirt once a week. There should be in each ward a towel on a roller clean every day. Pails, mops.

* Sir John Pringle, in his last Anniversary Discourse at the Royal Society, on the subject of Captain Cook's successful care of the ship's crew in his Voyage round the World; and the medal deservedly adjudged to him on that account, has the following passage at page 26. "It is well known how much Cleanliness conduces to health; but it is not so obvious how much it also tends to good order and other virtues. That diligent officer was persuaded — that such men as he could induce to be more cleanly than they were disposed to be of themselves, became at the same time more sober, more orderly, and more attentive to their duty.” This remark is confirmed by an observation in the Spectator, No. 631, "Several vices, destructive both to mind and body, are inconsistent with the habit of Cleanliness.”

60 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

brooms, soap, vinegar, and fuel for the oven, should be supplied by the county or town: otherwise Gaols will never be kept clean and wholesome.

No stable or dunghill should be suffered in the yard*; nor any fowls kept there, which I have often seen not only in the yards, but also in the rooms of many prisons. Sweepings, ashes, &c. should be taken away every week.

[BEDDING.]

IF the bedding is straw, it should be put in coarse canvass; if it is not so enclosed, it ought to be changed every week. Each bed should have a coarse coverlid or two.

Prisoners should not remain in the day-time in the little rooms or cabins in which they sleep: they should have a common ward, day-room or kitchen.

[FOOD.]

THOSE who drink only water, and have no nutritious

* The Act of Parliament in Ireland, which I mentioned in a former note, orders that "No Gaoler or any person employed by him, shall presume on any account to keep in the said Gaols, or the yard, or the houses adjoining thereto, and provided for the use of such prisoners, any hogs, cows, or other cattle, under the penalty of forty shillings for such hog, cow, or other beast kept in the said Gaol or Prison.”

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 61

liquor, ought to have at least a pound and half of bread every day. The bread should be one day old, and then honestly weighed to them. If once a week (suppose on Sunday) some of the coarser pieces of beef were boiled in the copper, and half a pound of the meat without bone given to each prisoner, with a quart of the broth, and then only one pound of bread, this Sunday Dinner might be made an encouragement to peaceable and orderly behaviour: the turbulent and refractory should not have it. Such an allowance, might help to remove a bad custom that obtains too generally, the pretence of refreshing prisoners with better food and drink on Sunday; upon which many are admitted into the Gaols, and keep the prisoners from Chapel.

I state the allowance in weight, not money, because of the variable price. Besides that quantity of bread, each prisoner should have a penny a day in money for cheese, butter, potatoes, pease, or turnips; or he should have a pennyworth of one of those articles.

Here, as in the tap, I must insist upon it as highly necessary, that every Gaoler, Bridewell-Keeper, Turnkey, &cc. be excluded from all concern in the prisoners allowance; from all profit arising directly or indirectly from the sale of their bread, or other food. Whoever distributes it, should be free from all temptation to fraud; and be subject to a

62 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

strong check*. The whole allowance of prisoners should never be given them in money.

The Reader will plainly see, that I am not an advocate for extravagant and profuse allowance to prisoners. I plead only for necessaries, in such a moderate quantity, as may support health and strength for labour. The law allows the poor debtor who is detained in prison, two shillings and four-pence per week† (I wish it were more easily obtained) and the government allowance to assize convicts under sentence of transportation is a little more, viz. two shillings and six-pence; which the Sheriff charges to Government in his bill of cravings, presented at the expiration of his office. And I believe upon the average price of bread, potatoes, &c. the allowance I have mentioned does not exceed those sums. I presume it may be thought rather incongruous to allow prisoners before trial (on which some of them may be found not guilty) less than is given to those that are convicted.

[NO QUARRELS.]

NO fighting should be suffered in a Gaol: no quarreling, or abusive language; nor the frequent occasion of them,

* In Ireland the Minister of the Parish where the Gaol is, orders the felons bread; and keeps (should keep) the account of it: for he is allowed by Act of Parliament a sum not exceeding ten pounds a year for the trouble.

† 32d George II.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 63

gaming. If any one be injured, let him complain to the Keeper, who should hear both parties face to face, decide the matter, and punish the aggressor by closer confinement. Faults that deserve more severe animadversion, should be reserved for the cognizance of the Magistrates, or an inspector: of whom presently.

[DONATIONS AND LEGACIES.]

MONEY sent, collected, or bequeathed, should be distributed by the Magistrates. Some of it might be laid out in tools, &c. for such debtors as will work.

The mention of Legacies reminds me of the need there is of a list of them painted legibly on a board ; which should be hung up so as to be read by the prisoners. Very few Gaols have such a table: and for want of it many Legacies have been entirely lost; and the charitable intention of the Testators frustrated. Yet care of legacies is expressly required by the Act 32d George II.

[TABLE OF FEES, &C.]

In the like conspicuous manner should be hung up in every Gaol an authentic table of fees, till they are abolished. This also is expressly required by the same Act. Yet in many Gaols it is totally disregarded, and they have no such tables.

In the Act 24th George II. which prohibits the use of spirituous liquors in Prisons or Workhouses, it is expressly

64 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

required, that every Gaoler, Keeper, Master, &c. shall procure one or more copies of the three clauses* which contain the several articles of the prohibition, to be printed or fairly written, and hung up in one of the most public places of the Prison or Work-house, and renewed as occasion required, under the penalty of forty shillings for every default.

There should also be a list of the Allowance to prisoners: for want of which I have known them defrauded of a considerable part of their food: the whole of which is no where more than sufficient. The same list should exhibit the particulars of bedding, or straw.

The Act for preferring the health of prisoners requires that it be painted on a board, &c. as aforesaid: not merely written or printed on paper, because that is more perishable,

* In the prohibiting clauses, a fine of one hundred pounds is laid upon any Gaoler, Keeper, Master, &c. who shall sell, use, lend, or give away any such liquors; or knowingly permit them to be sold, used, &c. in the House; except they be prescribed by a regular Physician, Surgeon, or Apothecary, to be used medicinally. And a fine of ten pounds to twenty pounds, or any time not exceeding three months imprisonment, for any person who shall bring such liquors into the House. One moiety of these fines, as well as of that mentioned above, to the informer: the other moiety of each of the two smaller fines to the prisoners; or, in the Work-house, to the poor.

I do not remember to have seen the clauses hung up in any Work-house. I shall in the sequel mark the numerous prisons that have the same defect: I could also have mentioned prisons in which, notwithstanding the Act, spirituous liquors are used: and I could even name Gaolers who find ways to evade the Act; and do themselves sell such liquors to their prisoners.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 65

and liable to be torn*. The Rules for Cleanliness, and Orders against Garnish, Gaming, Drunkenness, Quarreling, Profaneness and Obscenity, should also be visibly exhibited with the penalties for each of those crimes. The penalties should be fixed by the Magistrates, or by law. The table should also shew the hours of opening and shutting the several wards; and of attending public worship. Besides setting down these hours in a table, notice should be given of them by a bell, as in the dock-yards. I have known prisoners absent from Chapel, who said they would have been there, but did not know the service was performing.

It is expressly required by the Act 32d George II. that Rules and Orders made, signed, and confirmed, as the Table of Fees, be drawn up for every Prison†, and hung up conspicuously in it for inspection of prisoners. Yet in

* I mention this circumstance, that may seem trisling, as I know the disposition of prisoners to destroy the copies of the clauses against spirituous liquors.

† "Be it also enacted — That the Judges and Justices of Assize — shall, at all Assizes — make inquiry whether such Table of Fees, and Rules and Orders — are hung up and remain publick — and shall inform themselves — and supply and redress — and shall expressly give in charge to every Grand Jury impanelled and sworn before them respectively, to make inquiries concerning the same.”

66 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

many Prisons neither Fees nor Orders are to be seen: the latter in very few.

[Inspector.]

FINALLY, The care of a Prison is too important to be left wholly to a Gaoler; paid indeed for his attendance, but often tempted by his passions, or interest, to fail in his duty. To every prison there should be an Inspector appointed; either by his colleagues in the magistracy, or by Parliament*. Sheriffs and Magistrates have indeed this power already; and prisons are their immediate care. But some Sheriffs excuse themselves from attention to this part of their duty, on account of the short duration, expence, and trouble of their office: and those Gentlemen, as well as Gentlemen in the Commission of the Peace, have no doubt been fearful of the consequence of looking into prisons. But the danger from such inspection is in great measure

* The Vagrant Act 17th George II. requires that Two Justices visit the Houses of Correction "twice, or oftener if need be, in every year; and to examine into the estate and management thereof, and to report, &c.” And that the Justices at Quarter Sessions impose fines and penalties on the Governors or Makers who do not keep their prisoners to hard labour, and punish and correct them according to the directions of the warrants, &c.

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 67

removed: and it may be expected that Sheriffs will now engage in this business; and that among Justices, and Town-Magistrates, there may always be found one man generous enough to undertake this important service. Or if the constant trouble be thought too much for one person, it may proceed by annual, quarterly, or monthly rotation.

The Inspector should make his visit once in a week, or at most in a fortnight, changing his days. He should take with him a memorandum of all the rules, and inquire into the observance or neglect of them. He should (as is done in some of our Hospitals) look into every room, to see if it be clean, &c. He should speak with every prisoner; hear all complaints; and immediately correct what he finds manifestly wrong: what he doubts of, he may refer to his brethren in office, at their next meeting. A good Gaoler will be pleased with this scrutiny: it will do him honour, and confirm him in his station. In case of a less worthy Gaoler, the examination is more needful, in order to his being reprimanded; and, if he be incorrigible, to his being discharged. This Honourable Delegate should have no salary: he should engage from the noble motive of doing justice to prisoners, and service to his country.

I have often inquired of Gaolers whether the Sheriffs, Justices, or Town-Magistrates inspected their Gaols. Many of the oldest have answered, "None of those Gentlemen ever looked into the dungeons, or even the wards of my"

68 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

"Gaol.” Others have said, "Those Gentlemen think that if they came into my Gaol, they should soon be in their graves.” Others, "The Justices think the inside of my House too close for them; they satisfy themselves with viewing the outside.” Now if Magistrates continue thus negligent of their duty, a general thorough reformation of our Prisons must be despaired of: what has been already obtained will soon be lost, and all will sink again into the former dreadful condition*.

BRIDEWELLS.

IF our Bridewells be not more properly conducted, sending prisoners from them to County-Gaols will defeat all the care of the most attentive Gaolers, and the whole intention of the Act for preserving the health of prisoners; and discharged offenders will spread disease and vice where-ever

* The author of Telemachus elegantly remarks, "The prosperous turn away their eyes from the miserable, not through insensibility, but because the sight is an interruption of their gaiety.”

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 69

they go; and instead of being amended, become an aggravated evil to society.

It is a shocking thing to destroy in prison the morals, the health, and (as is often done) the lives of those whom the law consigns only to hard labour and correction. One is charged with bastardy: another is abusive in a drunken quarrel: a young creature, who perhaps was never taught a moral lesson, is guilty of some petty theft: send them to Bridewell for a year, or two, which they must consume in idleness, hunger, dirt, with companions much improved by such education — If that prison be not secure, send them into still worse company, that of abandoned felons in the County-Gaol — What is this but devoting them to destruction?

Every county and town that has a Bridewell should be careful to see, first of all, that it be suitable to the purpose. In many places the County-Gaol is also a Bridewell. But this prison ought to be quite separate from the Gaol; at least not within the same walls: nor should even the courtyard be common to both. The building must be proportioned to the general number of delinquents. None of the rooms for confinement should be lower than the ground-floor: rather a story above it. Each work-room should have a thorough-fare for air: but the opposite windows need not be equal; the back windows half the size of those in front,

70 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

and six feet from the floor. Few or none of the windows should have glass; only shutters; and these should be open several hours in the day. In the court-yard (for such is necessary in every prison*) there should be a pump, or some other provision for water in plenty. And prisoners should be permitted to walk about, when they have done working.

For in work they ought, most certainly, to be employed. This is indispensibly requisite. Not one who is not sick should be idle. Where the prisoners are numerous, there should be several work-rooms; and but few prisoners in one room. Those who work by compulsion are more likely to be seduced to idleness in large companies, than when they are more by themselves. The Keeper should be a master of some manufacture†; a man

* By an Act 7th James I. Cap. IV. it is required that there be in every county "One or more fit and convenient House or Houses of Correction, with convenient Backside thereunto adjoining--Every Justice of Peace within every county — where such House and Backside shall not be erected or provided,” (within about two years) "shall forfeit for his said neglect, five pounds of lawful English money;” one moiety to the informer, the other towards erecting, building, &c. the said House and Backside.

And an Act made in Ireland the 10th and 11th of Charles I. requires the same, under the like penalty for neglect.

† The Acts cited in the preceding note require that Houses of Correction have "Mills, Turns, Cards, and such-like necessary implements, to set rogues or other idle persons on work.” And the Act 17th George II. quoted in a former note, requires that the Justices at their Quarter Sessions "take effectual care that the Houses of Correction — be duly fitted up, furnished, and supplied with sufficient implements, materials, and furniture, for keeping, relieving, setting to work, employing, and correcting all idle and disorderly persons, rogues, vagabonds, &c.”

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 71

of activity*, prudence, and temper. And he should keep his prisoners at work ten hours a day; meal-times included.

For women, especially those that have children with them, and sometimes at the breast, there should be a chimney in one or two rooms: and in winter firing should be allowed. I have known infants starved to death for want of this. In some prisons the smoke has no vent but at the doors and windows. In some Bridewells there should be a separate little room or two for faulty apprentices, as at Tothillfields, and Clerkenwell. In all, two airy wards for the sick, with medical relief. Men and women should have work-shops, as well as night-rooms, separate†. There should be baths, and an oven, for the same purposes as in the Gaols. In some County-Bridewells there are from twenty to thirty prisoners, and

* It was remarked that a Gaoler should not be an old or infirm person; the same caution is requisite with regard to the Keeper of a Bridewell; since such an one would neither be able to keep the prisoners properly at work, nor to prevent their making their escape at the time of locking up, as I knew to happen at Preston in Lancashire, and other places.

† IN all Prisons, it would be an excellent improvement to have little crib bedsteads for each person to lie upon separately. These have been introduced at the county Gaol of Suffolk, to my account of which I refer for a more particular description of them.

72 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

in Tothillfields and Clerkenwell many more. Great care should be taken to prevent infection; to keep the House clean, and well aired; and invariably to adhere to strict rules of sobriety and diligence, in order to correct the faults of prisoners, and make them for the future useful to society. Gentle discipline is commonly more efficacious than severity; which should not be exercised but on such as will not be amended by lenity. These should be punished by solitary confinement on bread and water, for a time proportioned to their fault. The Keeper should, by all means, reside in the House. He should not be suffered to farm any part of the allowance; nor to sell liquor, or any thing else. The whole management should be frequently inquired into, in the same manner as that of a Gaol, and by the same Inspectors.

I know not any reason why a House of Correction may not be conducted with as much regularity, as any other house where the family is equally numerous. Some foreign Bridewells are so conducted. Let the sober and diligent be distinguished by some preference in their diet, or lodging; or by shortening the term of their confinement; and giving them, when discharged, a good character. This last will be a strong incitement to good behaviour. The common diet should be at least as good and as much as that of felons in a Gaol. The hours of rising, of reading a chapter in

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 73

the bible, or prayers, of meals, of work, &c. should all be fixed by the magistrates, and notice of them given by a bell.

A Bridewell under proper regulation would contribute not a little towards its own maintenance. An exact account should be kept of the profit of the work; and all of it applied to common benefit; not left to the disposal of Keepers: for some of them in the few Bridewells where work is done, keep to themselves a sixth part, some half and some the whole of the prisoners earnings; giving them only the short county-allowance, and sometimes but part of that. When I said all the earnings should go to common stock, I meant it of the stated hours for working. Those who will employ themselves in extra-hours, should have the profit to themselves. And perhaps it might be an encouragement to diligence in the stated hours, to give them some small portion of the profit of these also. With regular oeconomy, Prisoners would be better nourished, and fitter for labour, than they now are and yet the county not burthened with much, if any, additional expence. But a building fit for the intention ought first to be provided.

The charge of this, as well as of a proper Gaol, will no doubt, be complained of. But if that be weighed against the benefit that will accrue to the public, it will be found but light. Besides that ought not to be allowed as a valid

74 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

objection, the occasion of which should have been removed long ago. Why have some Prisons been suffered to become ruinous; so that many rooms in them are unsafe, and prisoners are crowded together in the few that remain? Why were not the walls of the yards repaired in time, that prisoners might with safety be allowed the proper use of them? Money, to the amount of thousands is not witheld when Shire-halls and Town-halls are wanted. These we often see grand and elegant Edifices. Why should it be spared when the morals and lives of multitudes are at stake; and when it is impossible the design of the Legislature should be answered without it? I mean amending the manners of Petty Offenders; preventing the increase of felonies, and the spread of diseases. That the two latter, instead of being prevented, are promoted by the present irregularity of Bridewells, is notorious*. Prescription founded on culpable negligence should not be admitted in bar of a demand, which every principle of equity, humanity, and utility conspires to enforce.

I have only farther to add under this head, that the

* The Marquis Beccaria closes his 30th chapter with this maxim. "The punishment of a crime cannot be just, (that is necessary) if the Laws have not endeavoured to prevent that crime by the best means which times and circumstances would allow.”

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 75

management of Bridewells is now a matter of more than ordinary concern, since offenders are at present committed to them for terms so long as from three to ten years. Most of these persons would probably have been sentenced to transportation when that mode of punishment was in use.

I had taken some pains to make inquiries concerning the state of transports, with regard to whom many cruelties and impositions were commonly practised, and whose condition was in many respects equally contrary to humanity and good policy: I flattered myself that I had discovered means of remedying these evils in a considerable degree, and of disburthening the counties of a heavy expence with which they were charged; and was preparing to lay them before the Public, when a new turn was given to the matter by Act of Parliament*.

* 16th of George III. Cap. XLIII. An Act to authorise, for a limited Time, the Punishment by hard Labour of Offenders who, for certain Crimes, are or shall become liable to be transported to any of his Majesty's Colonies and Plantations.

I went one Sunday in October last to see the Men-Convicts on board the Justicia near Woolwich. I wished to have found them more healthy; and their provision good of the sort; and to have joined with them in divine service. But as the scheme is new, and temporary, I am not willing to complain.

76 PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.

Since this has taken place, I suppress what I had written; and shall only give, at the end of my book, a list of the numbers delivered from Newgate for transportation in the course of three years. This will shew, in a very alarming light, the danger there may be in future of crowding our prisons, so as to produce the most destructive consequences.

I CANNOT conclude this Section without attempting to obviate some objections that may occur to the improvements proposed in it. It may be said, that from the many conveniences suggested in the structure of Gaols, and the removal of those hardships which rendered them so terrible, the dread of being confined in them will in great measure be taken off, and the lower classes of people will find them more comfortable places of residence than their own houses. But let it be considered, in the first place, that although I have indeed recommended such attentions in the construction and management as may free them from the diseases and hardships under which they have laboured, I have proposed nothing to give them an air of elegance, or pleasantness. On the contrary, I have censured the plan of some modern Gaols as too shewy and splendid; and nothing abroad struck me more with regard to these buildings, than the perfect plainness and simplicity of their appearance. Then, with respect to the more humane treatment of the prisoners

Sect. III. PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS. 77

in the articles of food, lodging, and the like, I venture to assert, that if to it be joined such strict regulations in preventing all dissipation and riotous amusement, as I have inculcated, confinement in a prison, though it may cease to be destructive to health and morals, will not fail to be sufficiently irksome and disagreeable, especially to the idle and profligate.

SECTION IV.

AN ACCOUNT OF FOREIGN PRISONS.

I DESIGNED to publish the Account of our Prisons in the Spring 1775, after I returned from Scotland, and Ireland. But conjecturing that something useful to my purpose, might be collected abroad, I laid aside my papers, and travelled into France, Flanders, Holland, and Germany. I flattered myself that my labour was not quite fruitless: and repeated my visit to these countries, and also to Switzerland, last summer.

I shall not give an account of every foreign prison I saw, whether it had any thing peculiar or not: this would be tedious and uninstructive. Nor do I mention the frauds which I observed, or from the evasive answers of Keepers, had reason to suspect. The redress and investigation of foreign abuses was not my object.

Sect. IV. FRANCE. 79

In my relation I shall follow the order of my last journey, and begin with

FRANCE.

[Paris.]

IN or near Paris are the Conciergerie, Grand and Petit Châtelet, Fort l'Evêque, the Bicétre; and some others.

My first question at each prison commonly was, "Whether the Gaoler or Keeper resided in the House?" and the answer was always in the affirmative.

Most Prisons in the city have three or four gates; from 4 to 4½ feet high; separated from each other by a little area or court. Within the inner gate is, in some prisons, a Turnstile. The number and lowness of the gates (at each of which you must stoop) and the turnstiles, effectually prevent the prisoners rushing out.

In most of the prisons there are five or six Turnkeys; viz. two or three at the gates: one walking in the yard, to prevent conferring and plotting (a circumstance to which French Gaolers are very attentive): one at the womens ward: and every day one of them is abroad, or otherwise

80 FOREIGN PRISONS.

at leisure. This liberty they have in rotation. They are strictly prohibited, under severe penalties, from receiving any thing of the prisoners, directly or indirectly, on any pretence whatever. The Gaoler is obliged to board them; and to pay each of them at least one hundred livres a year. It must be paid quarterly, in presence of the Deputy of the Attorney-General.

I was suprized at seeing that none of the prisoners were in Irons. No Gaoler (I was informed) may put them on a prisoner, without an express order from the Judge. And yet in some of the Prisons, there were more criminals than in any of our London Gaols. When I was first there, the number had been recently increased by an insurrection on account of the scarcity of corn. My Reader will perhaps presently see reason to conclude, that the manner in which Prisons are conducted makes the confinement more tolerable, and chains less needful. Indeed it was evident, from the very appearance of the prisoners in most of the Gaols, that humane attention was paid to them.

Most of the courts are paved; and they are washed three or four times a day. One would hardly believe how this freshens the air in the upper rooms. I felt this very sensibly once and again when I was in the chambers: and an Englishman, who had the misfortune to be a prisoner, made the same remark. But I seldom or ever found in any French Prison that

Sect. IV. FRANCE. 81

offensive smell which I had often perceived in English Gaols. I sometimes thought these courts were the cleanest places in Paris. One circumstance that contributes to it, besides the number of Turnkeys, is, that most of them are near the river.

Prisoners, especially criminals, attend Mass every day, and the Gaoler or a Turnkey with them: but such of them as are Protestants are excused. No person is admitted into any Prison during the time of Divine Service.

As condemned criminals generally throw off all reserve, and by relating their various adventures and success prove pernicious tutors to young and less practised offenders; care is taken to prevent this mischief, by sending those who are sentenced to the Gallies, to a separate Prison at the Port de St. Bernard: where they are kept till there is a proper number of them to be carried off. Some continue there many months; but their term commences two days after sentence. I heard that about two hundred were sent from that Prison to Marseilles and Toulon, a week or two before I was there.

To prevent the frequent consequences of desperation, no one condemned to death by the inferior court, is without hopes of life, till the Parliament, to which he commonly appeals, confirms or reverses the sentence: and they never

82 FOREIGN PRISONS.

make known their decision, till the morning of the day on which a prisoner is to suffer. Then they publish a confirmation of the former sentence; and it is sold in the streets.

The chambers are opened at seven in the morning from November 1st to Easter; at six from Easter to November: and shut in the evening at six from November 1st to Easter; at seven from Easter to November. But debtors have an hour more at night. This they commonly spend in the court; as they do not choose to be there in the day-time, among felons. Common-side prisoners are obliged to come out of their night-rooms at the fore-mentioned morning-hours. Experience having shewn, that idleness and lying in bed, are productive of the Scurvy and other distempers. Women are kept quite separate from men. Where there is but one court-yard, as in the Conciergerie, they have the use of it from twelve till two and the men are shut up. I happened to be in that prison at those hours. The court is fifty-five yards by thirty-eight; and has a fine piazza on three sides; on one side the piazza is double. This was the largest prison in the city before the fire in January 1776: but the Grand Châtelet is now larger, and has more prisoners; viz. 371. In this prison (the Conciergerie) and the Petit Châtelet, I observed the Infirmaries were the upper-most rooms: the best situation, as one of the Gaolers observed, "both for air, and to prevent the spreading of any

Sect. IV. FRANCE. 83

infectious distemper.” Men and women had separate sick wards.

Taking Garnish, or Footing, is strictly prohibited. If prisoners demand of a new comer any thing of that sort, on whatever pretence; if in order to obtain it they distress him by hiding his cloaths, &c. they are shut up for a fortnight in a dark dungeon, and suffer other punishment. They are obnoxious to the same chastisement for hiding one another's cloaths, or being otherwise injurious.

The daily allowance to criminals is a pound and half of good bread, and some soup. The soup is not made, nor is any other provision dressed, in the prisons. They have clean linen once a week, from a Society, which was initituted about the year 1753. The occasion of it was the prevalence of a contagious disease which in France they call Le Scorbut, the Scurvy. This distemper was found to proceed from the prisons; and to spread in the Hôtel Dieu, whither prisoners that had it were removed. The cause of it was generally thought to be Want of Cleanliness in Prisons where several of those confined had worn their linen for many months, and infected the most healthy new-comers that were put in the room with them. Eight hundred were ill of it at once in the Hospital of St. Louis, to which all that were sick of it in the Hôtel Dieu had been carried. By the Abbe Breton's exerting himself on this occasion, a

84 FOREIGN PRISONS.

fund was raised to support Prisoners in the Grand Châtelet with clean linen every week. This put an effectual stop to the malady in that Prison. Numbers afterwards joined the Society: the king and queen honoured it with their contributions: and the charity extended to three other Prisons; so that at last seven hundred prisoners were provided for in the same manner, and a stock of linen requisite for that purpose, viz. five thousand shirts, was completed. The elder prisoners have charge of the linen that is in the Prison; they receive and return it, and are gratified by the Society; which continues to the present time*. Besides this, there is scarce a Prison in the city that has not a Patroness†; a Lady of character, who voluntarily takes care that those in the infirmaries be properly attended; gives them firing; supplies them and the felons in dungeons with linen; does many kind offices to the prisoners in general; and by soliciting the charity of others, procures not only the relief and comforts mentioned already, but soup twice a week, and meat once a fortnight.

There is also annually at each Prison somewhat like our Charity Sermons; i.e. Public Service in the Chapel, and a Collection.

* For a farther account of this most useful institution, see Code de la Police. Paris, 1767. Tom, I. p. 510, &c.

† Tresorieres ou Dames de chariteé.

Sect. IV. FRANCE. 85

Those who sleep on straw, pay the Gaoler no fee at entrance, or discharge; but they pay one sou or halfpenny a day; and have clean straw once a month: those in the dungeons, once a fortnight. These are seldom let out; never in the yard.

The Chamber-Rents are all regulated. Those who sleep on beds pay ten sous entrance, and the same when discharged. If they lie alone, they pay five sous a day, if two in a bed, three sous each. The Gaoler finds them clean sheets in summer once in three weeks; in winter once a month. Those who board with him, and have a bed, not a room to themselves, pay a sum not exceeding three livres a day (2s. 7d.½): but nothing at entrance or discharge. Such boarders as have a chamber to themselves and firing, pay twenty sous a week more: if no fire-place fifteen sous. Both these sorts have clean sheets in summer once a fortnight; in winter, in three weeks. The Gaoler's servants attend them. There are also half-boarders; and some who have an entire chamber, but no board*.

All the Regulations are read in the Chapel to Prisoners, the first Sunday of every month, by the Chaplain; and they

* I had the curiosity to procure Lists of these different sorts of Prisoners in the sundry Prisons. One of them I will here transcribe as a specimen; viz. In the Conciergerie there were, June 1st, 1776,

On Straw, Men, 99

Women, 22

In the Infirmary, Men, 13

Women, 14

In the Dungeons, Men, 25

Boarders and Half-Boarders, 13

Such as boarded themselves, 16

202

Boarders pay in this Prison 45 livres a month; Half-Boarders 22½ livres: those who board themselves 7½. livres. There were six Turnkeys.

86 FOREIGN PRISONS.

hang up in the Prison for common inspection. If any Prisoner tears, or otherwise damages them, he suffers corporal punishment: if a Register or Gaoler does so, he is fined twenty livres: if a Turnkey, he is discharged.

The discipline observed is so exact, that at the late fire in the Conciergerie, the numerous prisoners (as I was informed) were removed without any confusion, or a single escape. There are good rules for preserving peace; for suppressing profaneness; for prohibiting Gaolers or Turnkeys abusing prisoners by beating them or otherwise*; forbidding their furnishing them with wine or spirituous

* Monsieur Guy du Rousseaud de la Combe, in his Traiteé des Matieres Criminelles, Paris, 1769, quarto, 6th edition, cites at page 339, an Arrét of Parliament in the last century, that condemned a Gaoler to be hanged, because he let a prisoner perish for want of food.

Sect. IV. FRANCE. 87

liquors, so as to cause excess, drunkenness, &c. Keepers are punished for this when known to the Magistrates, by a fine for the first offence; and for the second by stripes.

They are allowed to sell some things to their prisoners: but the quality, quantity and price must be such as the ordinances of police define and require.

Gaolers and Turnkeys are obliged to visit once a day at least, all the dungeons. I was sorry to find the humanity which is so conspicuous in the 'forementioned, and other excellent rules, so deficient as to continue the use of those subterraneous abodes; which are totally dark, and beyond imagination horrid and dreadful. Poor creatures are confined in them night and day for weeks, for months together. They visit these, I say, daily: and if they find any prisoners sick, they must acquaint the Physician and Surgeon; who visit them; and if needful, order them to more wholesome rooms till they recover.

Keepers are not tempted by paying for their places, to oppress their prisoners: to remove all pretext for so doings rents which they formerly paid to the Crown are remitted; and the leases given up.

As for debtors, their number is small. Of the 202 Prisoners in the Concergerie, but six were Debtors. In

88 FOREIGN PRISONS.

some other Prisons there were a few more. This perhaps is owing to the following good laws. Every Bailiff who arrests and imprisons a Debtor, must pay to the Gaoler in advance a month's aliment or subsistence, i.e. ten livres ten sous, equal to nine shillings English (provisions being at Paris cheaper in general than at London): and if the like sum be not paid within fourteen days after the end of every month, the prisoner is set at liberty. Besides this, the Debtor pays no costs of arrests, &c. The whole of them falls on the Creditor: and so do all expences occasioned by his sickness, or death.

As the best Regulations are liable to be abused, prisoners are not thought sufficiently provided for by enacting good Laws: the execution of them is carefully attended to. The Substitutes of the Attorney-General visit the Prisons once a week, to inquire if the rules be observed; to hear complaints of prisoners; to see if the sick be properly attended; and the like. — Besides this, the Parliament of Paris sends to all the Prisons five times a year two or three Counsellors with a Substitute of the Attorney-General, and two Clerks. They go at Christmas, Easter, Whitsuntide, one day before 15th August, Simon and Jude. There is in each Prison (as in other Foreign Gaols) a room for their reception called the Council-Chamber, It is occupied at other times by the Head-Gaoler.

Sect.IV. FRANCE. 89

The arrival of this deputation is announced by boys, who, though offenders, are allowed to do little errands in the Prison: these go round the yard and into every room, giving notice of it aloud. The Deputies go, without the Gaoler or Turnkeys, into every room and dungeon, and

1. They ask the prisoners one by one, if they have any complaint to make of the Gaoler or his servants. But they never meddle with those who are confined by an order from the king.

2. They receive the petitions of criminals who have been detained too long without trial.

3. In case of debts not exceeding two thousand livres (about ninety pounds) if the debtor can raise a third part of his debt, and no more, they receive it for the creditors. How they clear him of the remaining two thirds, I will shew presently. They take notes of these matters in the Prison: and give an account of all to the Parliament, at their general public meeting a day or two after.

In behalf of criminals who have not been tried, the Parliament commonly orders the Attorney-General to write in their name to the inferior Judges, inquiring into the causes of delay, or ordering expedition. If a prisoner be acquitted, he is discharged within twenty-four hours.

90 FOREIGN PRISONS.

The Laws of France do not in ordinary cases admit a Debtor to bail without the consent of his Creditor. But in the case mentioned above, the Parliament obliges creditors to accept of bail for the remainder of debts under two thousand livres. And even this bail seems a matter of mere form; for they sometimes take for bail men that are insolvent. I believe there is no standing law for this; and that it is rather an immemorial custom: because the Parliament enacts a particular law for each case as it occurs. In France there are no insolvent Acts.

The Deputies hear no complaints of the Gaoler against his prisoners. When he has any to make, he applies to the Chief Justice, by whose order the prisoner was committed. If he was imprisoned by an order from the king, he applies to the Lieutenant-General of the Police; if without such an order, to the Lieutenant-Criminal, &c.

Besides the Deputation now mentioned, the Parliament appoints to each Prison one of their own body, a Counseller. They always choose a Gentleman of fortune and good character: he is called Commissaire de la Prison. His business is much like that of the Deputation; and his office perpetual. By frequent discourse with prisoners I learned, that these officers are very humane to the distressed. They can (as the Parliament) oblige creditors to accept one third part

Sect. IV. FRANCE. 91

of debts under two thousand livres: but they use this power with much caution.

[Bicetre.]

THE Bicetre is upon a small eminence about two miles from Paris, if it were only a prison, I should call it an enormous one. But this for men, like the Hôpital general for women, is indeed a kind of general Hospital. Of about four thousand men that are within its walls, not one half are prisoners. The majority are; The Poor, who wear a coarse brown uniform, and seem as miserable as the poor in some of our country work-houses: the Insane: and men that have the venereal disease. Each sort is in a court and apartments totally separate from the other, and from Criminals. These are confined, some in little rooms about eight feet square, window 3½ by 2, with a grate, but not many glazed. By counting the windows, on one side of the House, I reckoned there must be five hundred of those rooms: there is but one prisoner in each. These pay two hundred livres a year for their board. There are others in two large rooms called La Force, on the other side of the court-yard La Cour Royale, which are crowded with prisoners. Over these two rooms is a general Infirmary: and over that, an Infirmary for the Scurvy; a distemper very common and fatal among them.

In the middle of La Cour Royale are eight dreadful dungeons down sixteen steps: each about thirteen feet by nine:

92 FOREIGN PRISONS.

with two strong doors; three chains fastened to the wall; and a stone funnel at one corner of each cell, for air. From the situation of these dreary caverns, and the difficulty I found in procuring admittance, I conclude hardly any other stranger ever saw them: that is my reason, and I hope will be an apology, for mentioning the particulars.

Prisoners make straw-boxes, tooth-picks, &c. and sell them to visitants. I viewed the men with some attention; and observed in the looks of many a settled melancholy: many others looked very sickly. This Prison seems not so well managed as those in the city: it is very dirty: no fireplace in any of the rooms: and in the severe cold last winter, several hundreds perished.

Water in plenty was thought of such importance here, that they have a stone well which is a curiosity. It was built in 1735; is fifteen feet diameter, and near seventy yards deep. The two Buckets hold each about three hogsheads: they are drawn, up by horses, and empty themselves into a Reservoir, sixty-four feet square, and nine deep. A bucket is drawn up in five minutes. They work sixteen hours every day, not excepting Sundays; and draw daily about five hundred hogsheads. Three horses work at a time, and twelve are kept for the service.

[HOPITAL GENERAL.]

THE Hopital general, near the city, is for women

Sect. IV. FRANCE. 93

and girls. The latter are employed on the finest embroidery. Numbers of poor; and a sisterhood of religious. Many criminals, quite separate from the others, and not seen by strangers. The House was cleaner, and seemed better conducted than the Bicêtre upon the same foundation.

[Bastile.]

THE Bastile may occur to some of my readers, as an object concerning which some information would be acceptable. All that I can give them is, that I knocked hard at the outer gate, and immediately went forward through the guard to the draw-bridge before the entrance of the Castle. I was some time viewing this building, which is round, and surrounded by a large moat. None of the windows look outwards, but only towards a small area; and if the state prisoners are ever permitted to take the fresh air, it mutt be on the leads, which have high parapets. But whilst I was contemplating this gloomy mansion, an officer came out of the Castle much surprized; and I was forced to retreat through the mute guard, and thus regained that freedom, which for one locked up within those walls it is next to impossible to obtain.

MANY of my readers, acquainted with the strict police of France, would have supposed that the other Prisons would have been as inaccessible to a visitant as the Bastile. And indeed my first application for admittance at the Grand Châtelet was unsuccessful. But fortunately remarking the

94 FOREIGN PRISONS.

tenth Article* of the Arrét 1717, I pleaded it before the Commissaire de la Prison to whom I was referred, and by its means gained admission as well into that Prison, as those of Petit Châtelet and Fort l'Evéque, and had an opportunity of seeing almost every individual confined in them.

[Provinces.]

IN the provincial gaols I saw little worth noting to imitate or avoid, but what has been already mentioned at Paris. These also have charitable Patronesses, or Patrons, who take care that the prisoners be not defrauded of their allowance; and procure them farther relief. But these Prisons do not seem to be so carefully inspected as those in the city; although the Acts of Parliament for regulation of both are for the most part similar; and were made in the same year, 1717†. They are drawn up with sound judgment, and accurate knowledge of the complex subject. I found many articles of them in the laws of other nations;

* The Article is as follows.

La Geoliers conduiront les personnes qui viendront faire des charitez dans les lieux de la prison oú elles desireront les distribuer, ce qu'elles pourront faire elles-mesmes sur le preau ou dans la cour; mais les aumosnes ne pourront estre distribuées dans les cachots noirs que par les mains du Geolier, en presence des personnes qui les porteront.

† They are printed in quarto. The Act for the City is dated 18th June: it contains thirty-nine Articles. The title is Arrest de la Cour de Parlement, portant Reglement general pour les Prisons, droits et fonctions des Greffiers des Geoles, Geoliers et Guichetiers des dites Prisons: Avec le Tarif des droits attribuez ausdits Geoliers. The Act for the Provinces, dated 1st September, has the same title, except the Tarif. It contains thirty-three Articles.

Sect. IV. FRANCE. 95

but cannot say whether the French Acts were compiled from them, or followed by them.

The 32d Article of the Act for the Provinces requires that Prisons be "au raiz de chaussee”*; level with the ground. Yet at Chalons, and some other towns, I saw many prisoners in dungeons; larger indeed, but in other respects not much better than those at Paris.

[Lyons.]

In the four horrid ones at the Prison de St. Joseph (formerly a Convent) at Lyons, June 1776, were twenty-nine criminals: the heat so excessive, that few of them had any other garment on than merely their shirts. Some of them were sick: none of them looked healthy. In the nine other rooms of that Gaol there were one hundred and twenty-eight prisoners of which number twenty-two were women. To the Pierrecize, a state prison at Lyons, you ascend by more than two hundred steps: among the few prisoners in it, I sat talking a while with one who said he was in the fiftieth year of his confinement.

The foundation of this was probably the first Article upon Prisons in the excellent Criminal Ordonnance of Louis XIV. 1670, which directs that they shall be so disposed that the health of prisoners shall not be incommoded.

96 FOREIGN PRISONS.

I dwell perhaps too long on France. Yet I cannot leave it, without stopping a minute longer at Lyons; to give a short account of an Hospital there.

[Hôtel Dieu.]

THE Hôtel Dieu is by the river's side (the Rhone). The principal building is in the form of a cross: near three hundred feet from end to end both ways. The wards thirty-two feet wide, and twenty-five feet high: with apertures between the joists of the floor above; and two tier of windows: in many of them two casements. Three rows of iron bedsteads in each ward. Under a dome in the centre is an octagon altar, in view from every part of the cross. Prayers, which are read there twice a day, can be heard through the wards. This part of the House is for those that have Fevers. There are other wards for Lying-in Women; for the Wounded; for Foundlings; for the Insane: all separate; and a room for chirurgical operations. The cross-wards are so airy, as not to be in the least offensive: and yet there are, in another part of the House, two large upper rooms still more airy and pleasant, Chambres de Convalescence: to these they remove patients that are recovering: and those whom I saw there said they were very refreshing. They come down from them at meals to a Refectory or Hall. These rooms soon complete the patients recovery; and seem an excellent precaution against the slow hectic fever, of which our Hospital-Physicians so frequently complain; and it is

Sect. IV. GENEVA. 97

chiefly on account of these that I mention the House The whole was clean and quiet. There are eight Chaplains; nine Physicians and Surgeons; and twelve Sisters. These are ladies of a religious order, dressed in a neat uniform, who make up, as well as administer all the medicines prescribed; for which purpose there is an Elaboratory and Apothecary's shop, consisting of five or six apartments, the neatest and most elegantly fitted up that can be conceived.

BEFORE the Cantons, I will mention, what is not indeed any part of Switzerland, the little Republic of

GENEVA.

HERE were only five Criminals; none of them in irons. Their allowance about six-pence a day: for which they have a pound of good bread, some soup, and half a pint of

* I was induced to take such particular notice of this Hospital, from the recollection of something similar to these Chambers of Convalescence proposed by my ingenious friend Mr. Aikin of Warrington, in his Thoughts on Hospitals. I had not the pamphlet then with me, but have since turned to the passage, and find he advises that "all patients capable of sitting up, should remain through the day in large airy halls.”

98 FOREIGN PRISONS.

wine. They looked healthy. Here, as in the Swiss-Cantons, men and women are kept separate. For the last year or two no capital punishment. If a criminal flies from justice, they call him in form three days, and after trial, execute him in effigy.

No Debtors: and there seldom are any. A creditor must allow his debtor in prison as much as felons have from the public: upon failure, the gaoler gives notice, and then discharges the prisoner. Besides, there are sumptuary laws in this state. And though the government is in general mild, there is a severe law against bankrupts, and insolvents; which renders incapable of all honours, and deprives of freedom, not only the debtor himself, but his children after him: except such of them as pay their quota of the debts*.

IN those of the CANTONS to which I went, Felons have each a room to themselves, "that they may not,” said the Keepers, "tutor one another.” None were in irons: they are kept in rooms more or less strong and lightsome, according to the crimes they are charged with. But the Prisons are in general very strong. The rooms are numbered,

* See Edits de la Republique de Geneve, 1735.

Sect. IV. SWITZERLAND. 99

and the keys marked with the same numbers. In most of them a German Stove. The common allowance six-pence a day. In some Cantons there were no prisoners of this sort. The principal reason of it is, the great care that is taken to give children, even the poorest, a moral and religious education. Another thing which contributes to the same intention, is the laudable police of speedy justice. A criminal has notice of his death, not the manner of it, but a short time before he is to suffer: and he is then indulged with his choice of food, wine, &c. Women are not hanged, but beheaded. Every new executioner has a new sword; and in the Arsenal at Bern I saw several old ones hung up in order. In the Houses of Correction many of the prisoners were women, whom I saw at work.

The most numerous prisoners are the Galley-Slaves; improperly so called, for there are no Galleys belonging to Switzerland.

[Lausanne.]

AT Lausanne I visited a Prison, in which there were at that time no prisoners. There were dungeons, but on entering each of them the Keeper observed that we were not yet upon the ground, but there were cellars underneath. On conversing with Dr. Tissot, he expressed his surprize at our Gaol-Distemper; said "I should not find it in Switzerland:” and added that ”he had not heard of it's being any where but in

100 FOREIGN PRISONS.

England.” When I mentioned the late Act of Parliament for preserving the health of our prisoners, he approved of it highly, especially the clauses which require white-washing the rooms and keeping them clean. — I did not (as the Doctor said I should not) find the Gaol-Fever in Switzerland: nor did I find it any where else abroad*.

[Bern.]

IN Bern, the principal Canton, there was in one Prison (the Schallenhaus) one hundred and twenty-four Galley-Slaves. They have not each a room to themselves; but there is some distinction of the more and less criminal, both in their rooms and work. Most of them are employed in cleaning the streets, and public walks; removing the rubbish of building; and the snow and ice in winter. The city is one of the cleanest I have seen. Four or five are chained to a small waggon and draw; others, more at liberty, sweep, load, &c. These are known by an Iron Collar, with a hook projecting above their heads: weight about five pounds: I saw one riveted on a criminal in about two minutes. They work in summer from seven to eleven, and from one to six; in winter from eight to eleven, and from one to four. I

* Sir John Pringle, President of the Royal Society, in his Discourse at the Anniversary Meeting, 30th November 1776, informs us at page 16, that "The late Dr. Mounsey, F.R.S. who had lived long in Russia, and had been Archiater under two successive Sovereigns — happening to be at Moscow when,he perused the Observations on the Jail-Fever — was induced to compare what he read in that Treatise with what he should see in the several Prisons of that large city: but to his surprize, after visiting them all, and finding them full of malefactors (for the late Empress then suffered none — to be put to death) he could discover no fever among them, nor learn that any acute distemper peculiar to Jails had ever been known there. — Upon his return to St. Petersburg he made the same inquiry there, and with the same result.”

I shall just remark here that the Scorbut in the French Prisons may probably be a species of the Gaol-Distemper; but I did not see any persons actually ill of it while I was abroad; otherwise I think I should have been able to have recognized it.

Sect. IV. SWITZERLAND. 101

asked them, "Whether they would choose to work so, or be confined within doors?” "Much rather," they said, "work thus." The less criminal are in separate wards. They work within doors, spinning,&c. in a large room; and have not the iron collar. The Prison is not commodious, nor kept clean. The daily allowance two pounds of bread, and twice a day a pint and half of soup, made of barley, beans, &c. they fetch it from the City-Hospital. In their leisure-hours they make trifles to sell, mend shoes &c. and deliver them as they pass on at work. They are not suffered to practise Gaming of any sort. Indeed this is forbidden to all the common people; as playing for any considerable sum is to those of higher rank. The Keeper and Turnkey are to see that the prisoners perform their devotions every morning and evening. The Chaplains pray with them and instruct them on Sunday and Thursday. Once a month other Clergymen superintend the service. No visitant admitted on Sunday. Great care taken of the sick. No sutling place to be kept in this House of Correction. The Keeper is strictly forbidden to sell the prisoners wine, brandy, or other provisions; and required entirely

102 FOREIGN PRISONS.

to forego any such emolument. The bedding and cloathing are minutely described, both as to quality and value. I have a copy of all the Orders, twenty-seven in number, dated March 14. 1741. These which I have mentioned may serve for a specimen. Some of the slaves are women: their ward is totally separate from that of the men.

In La Prison ordinaire some rooms are planked all round. Eight of them are very close and strong. Doors of oak 24 inches thick, plated with iron; three hinges, a lock and two padlocks. In a closet, were the cloaths of a person that was murdered, kept to confront the guilty when apprehended; and some stolen goods, to be owned. Here were no prisoners. A criminal who can pay is allowed to expend 7 batz 2 kreutzer, about a shilling daily, for two meals of soup and good bread. To one that is poor, the Government allows half that sum. To all who are condemned, they allow a shilling a day for eight days before they suffer. These allowances are specified on a paper hung up in the Gaol. There also hangs up a serious exhortation concerning the awful nature of an Oath; and the forms of sundry oaths to be taken. I procured copies of the whole, but will transcribe only one oath, as follows: — "Ma deposition, dont lecture m'a été faite á present, je la confirme devant la face du Dieu tout puissant, tout sachant et vray, pour contenir la verité, ainsi que je desire que Dieu me soit en aide sur la fin de mes jours. Sans dol ni

Sect. IV. SWITZERLAND. 103

"fraude.” — "My deposition, which has now been read to me I confirm before the face of God omnipotent, omniscient and true, to contain the truth, as I desire that God may be my help at the end of my days. Without deceit or fraud.” Perjury, I was told, is very uncommon among them*.

In this city I had some discourse with the celebrated Dr. Haller. He ascribed the sickness in English Gaols to their being over-crowded.

[Solothurn.]

AT Solothurn the Prison (dated in front 1756) is built of a sort of marble from a quarry near the town. Many of the stones are six feet by two or three, and above a foot thick. The Gaoler said, "He always took off the irons from criminals that came to him chained hands and feet.” There are fifteen rooms about nine feet square, and eight feet high: with a coach roof. The partition walls are all of the same sort of marble: the window is in the upper part of

* In Scotland also this crime is not frequent. When I was there January 1775, there were no trials: but by inquiring of Gentlemen well-versed in the business of their Courts, I learned that the oath and the form of administering it, are very solemn. The Judge, as well as the Witness standing, holding up his right hand &c. After a witness has given his evidence, it is read to him, that he may correct or explain it; and then he signs it. The whole process is carried on with great deliberation. Judges on the Circuit are obliged to stay five nights at every town where they open their commission. Acquitted prisoners are immediately discharged.

104 FOREIGN PRISONS.

the wall, two feet by six inches: German stoves in most of the rooms. For those guilty of less heinous crimes, there are rooms not quite so strong, and more lightsome. Allowance a pound of bread, and twice a day soup.

The Magistrates thought a constant supply of water within the Prison-walls so needful, that although there is a fountain in the street about ten yards from the Prison-door, they have placed another in the court-yard, dated 1769.

[Basil.]

AT Basil the Gaol for felons is in one of towers. No prisoners; but many rooms ready with clean straw and blankets. Each prisoner (they said) has a room to himself, in which he is constantly shut up, except when conducted to the Council-Chamber for examination. One of the strongest rooms by the great clock is about six feet high: the (trap) door is in the flat roof: the prisoner goes down by a ladder, which is then taken up: his victuals are put in at a wicket on one side. When I was in the room, and took notice of the uncommon strength of it, the Gaoler told me a prisoner had lately made his escape from it. I could not devise what method he took, but heard it was this. He had a spoon for soup, which he sharpened to cut out a piece from the timber of his room: then by practice he acquired the art of striking his door, just when the great clock struck, to drown the noise: and in fifteen days he forced all the bolts, &c. But attempting to let himself

Sect. IV. GERMANY. 105

down from the vast height by a rope which he found, the rope failed him; and by falling he broke so many of his bones, that the Surgeons pronounced his recovery impossible. But his bones were set; and with proper care he did recover, and was pardoned.

GERMANY.

THE Germans, well aware of the necessity of Cleanliness in Prisons, have very judiciously chosen to build them in situations most conducive to it; that is, near Rivers: as at Hanover, Zell, Hamburgh, Bremen, Cologne, Mentz and many other places.

In the Gaols that I saw there were but few prisoners, except those called, improperly, Galley-Slaves. One cause of this, here as in Switzerland, is a speedy trial after commitment.

The Galley-Slaves have every where a Prison to themselves. They work on the Roads, the Fortifications, Chalk-Hills, and other public service; for four, seven, ten, fifteen,

106 FOREIGN PRISONS.

twenty years, according to their crimes: and are cloathed, as well as fed, by the Government. At Wesel, which belongs to the king of Prussia, there were ninety-eight of these slaves: they have two pounds of bread a day, and the value of three halfpence English every day they work.

I saw no under-ground dungeons in any of the new Prisons in Germany: nor indeed in any new Prison abroad. At Lunenburg the dungeons are disused: and instead of them are built additional rooms up stairs: one for each prisoner. And in most of the Gaols each criminal is alone in his room, which is more or less strong, lightsome, and airy, as the crime he is charged with is more or less atrocious.

One often sees the doors of sundry rooms marked Ethiopia, India, Italy, France, England, &c. In those rooms, parents, by the authority of the Magistrates, confine for a certain term dissolute children: and if they are inquired after, the answer is, they are gone to Italy, England, &c.

I do not remember any Prison in Germany (nor elsewhere abroad) in which Felons have not, either from the public allowance, or from charities, somewhat more to live on than bread and water. In some places a person goes on

Sect. IV. GERMANY. 107

market-days with a basket for prisoners: and I have seen him bring them a comfortable meal of fresh vegetables.

But there are separate Prisons in which confinement for a week or two on bread and water is all the punishment for some petty offences. Perhaps, when a condemned criminal is only to live a day or two, such diet may be more proper than the indulgence with which the Germans treat prisoners, after sentence of death, which is commonly executed within forty-eight hours. The malefactor has then his choice of food, and wine, in a commodious room, into which his friends are admitted; and a Minister attends him during almost all his remaining hours.

[Strasburg.]

AT Strasburg I saw in one of the five towers three Debtors: they informed me that they were alimented by their creditors; that they had two pounds of good bread a day, and soup equally good. I was much pleased to find so much of a liberal spirit prevail in this city, that in the Hospital there were separate chambers for Lutherans, in which they were allowed the attendance of their own Ministers.

[Mentz.]

AT Mentz, La Porte de Fer, which is for Felons, is five Stories high: two rooms on a floor: a Spacious landing-place in the middle, with opposite windows, for circulation of air. The rooms are double-floored with oak plank, full two inches thick; and each room has a double door only three

108 FOREIGN PRISONS.

feet nine inches high. These two circumstances contribute much to security. On one side the door is a small iron wicket, to put in the daily allowance: which is two pounds of bread, soup, and (except in Lent) a little meat. Only one prisoner is confined in each room, who has a pair of blankets; and once in a fortnight clean straw. This Gaol stands near the Rhine, and is not in the least offensive.

In the House of Correction all was neat, and shewed the attention of the Regency. On my taking notice to the Keeper how clean his Prison was, he said " How can it be otherwise when we have so many women prisoners? Surely they may keep the House clean.” Most of the flour for the city is ground at a mill in this Prison. The delinquents work at it two hours in the morning, and two in the afternoon. Over the door is carved a waggon drawn by two Stags, two Lions, and two wild Bears; with an inscription explaining the device, which is, that if wild beads can be tamed to the yoke, we should not despair of reclaiming irregular men. I saw the same bas relief at one or two other Houses of Correction.

There is a separate Prison for Debtors, near the Fish-Market: Le Port du Poisson. No prisoners. When there are any, they have daily at the creditor's cost two pounds of bread, and about four-pence English.

Sect. IV. GERMANY. 109

Every Prison at Mentz has in each room a German stove; which, in winter, is heated two or three times a day. Prisoners have clean linen once a week. On my observing to the Brigadier of the Police who went with me, how healthy his prisoners looked, he told me that "Some years ago, they were unhealthy; and the Regency removed them from the dungeons under ground: upon which they recovered; and had been remarkably healthy ever since.” The dungeons are now totally disused.

It was hardly necessary to inquire if the Prisons were inspected by proper Officers. The Keepers make a report every day to an attentive Lieutenant of the Police: and once in a fortnight the Conseiller de Régence, the Secretaire and Conseiller des Finances visit every Prison; hear all complaints; and inquire if cloaths, or any thing necessary be wanting. None of the Keepers sell liquor; but prisoners may send out for a quart of beer a day. They are not allowed to have any Spirituous liquors.

I have related more particulars here, to give a Specimen of the oeconomy observed in other German Prisons, most of them being governed upon the same principles; though not all with the same attention.

[Hanau.]

AT Hanau near Hesse Cassel, the Galley-Slaves (so called) are distinguished into Honnêtes and Deshonnêtes. The

110 FOREIGN PRISONS.

former are condemned for three, four, seven, nine, fourteen years: but the term is sometimes shortened on account of good behaviour. These wear a brown uniform; and a small chain from the girdle to one leg. The latter are for the most part such as have committed capital offences. These wear a white coat with one black sleeve; and have a chain from the girdle to each leg: they never work out of the town; and are put to the most disagreeable services in it. The hours of work for both sorts are in summer from five to eleven, and from one to six: in winter as the weather and length of days permit. Allowance, from 1st of April to Michaelmass, 2½ pounds of bread a day: from Michaelmass to April, two pounds: and each man about two-pence English a day. From a charity they have half a florin (about twelve-pence halfpenny) a month. They are constantly visited by a Deputy from the Regency, who makes his report to the Colonel every morning: and the Colonel conveys it to the young Prince, when he resides at Hanau. Of his kindness to them, the prisoners seemed duly sensible; and they spoke with grateful respect of the attention shewed them by the amiable Princess his deceased mother, whose memory will be long revered in that country.

I asked one and another of the Honnêtes who were at work on the road, "Whether they liked to be thus employed, or would rather choose to be confined in idleness?”

Sect.IV. GERMANY. 111

They readily answered, "Much rather be thus abroad at work.” On Saturday afternoon, these sweep the bridges, the entrances to the town &c. They have a Guard of four Soldiers (bayonets fixed), a Subaltern, and the Keeper. This is the guard, be the number of slaves more or less: when I saw them they were from ten to twelve.

At six in the evening, in summer-time, they bring all their tools into a room in the Prison; and go to their chambers: the Deshonnêtes on the ground floor; the Honnêtes above. But in this Prison there is not a separate room for each man; as in those to which they were at first committed. Each criminal has, besides the cloaths above-mentioned, two pair of shoes; two pair of stockings; and two shirts. All are obliged to attend Divine Service on Sunday. The men on my repeated visits looked always healthy.

The Deshonnêtes are not doomed to despair: but for good behaviour are sometimes promoted to the rank of Honnêtes. I conversed with one whom I found very chearful for a late advancement of that kind: in consequence of it he was working on the road.

There is another Prison at Hanau, La Tour de Margueretta: so called from the first person confined in it. It has four rooms on each of the two floors; but they were all empty.

112 FOREIGN PRISONS.

[Cassel.]

AT Cassel there is also a Prison for Galley-Slaves, under similar management, but not so well conducted. One circumstance struck me as worthy of remark. In a fine new Church just built, there is a gallery with two separate seats for the Honnêtes and Deshonnêtes; though the whole number, when I was there, was only seventeen.

[Manheim.]

AT Manheim Monsieur Babo, Counsellor to the Regency, very politely gave orders to shew me every room of La Maison de Force. Prisoners committed to this House are commonly received in form with what is called the Bien-Venu (Welcome). A machine is brought out in which are fastened their neck, hands, and feet. Then they are stripped; and have, according as the Magistrate orders — the Grand Venu of twenty to thirty stripes — the Demi Venu of eighteen to twenty — or the Petit Venu of twelve to fifteen: after this they kiss the threshold and go in. Some are treated with the same compliment at discharge. The like ceremony is observed at some other towns in Germany.

The House was clean. Fifty-two men, and forty-nine women in several rooms: all at work; either at their own trades, as shoemakers, taylors, weavers, lapidaries; or at one of the manufactures of the House; which are coarse cloth and cards. Not one idle. They have but little time to earn any thing for themselves: yet though they work

Sect. IV. GERMANY. 113

entirely for the House, their labour, I was informed, does not maintain it.

The Rules and Orders are good. I have a copy of them all. The two last are to this effect. 11th. As it is of the utmost importance in such Houses as this, to observe all possible cleanliness; it is required of all persons to watch most strictly against all appearance of the contrary. Whoever sees the least offence of that kind, shall give immediate notice of it to the Inspector, upon pain of close confinement on bread and water, and the most rigorous chastisement. 12th. That no one may be able to plead ignorance of the Rules, one copy of them shall be given to every prisoner, and another hung up in his room; and they shall be read publicly every Sunday morning after Divine Service. It is ordered that the disobedient be punished; and that encouragement be given to the dutiful and diligent.

The doors are all numbered; and the keys marked with the corresponding number. Allowance to most of the Men two pounds of bread, soup, and a quart of good beer; and, except in Lent, half a pound of meat. Women have a pound and half of bread: other articles as the men. The sick are indulged with white bread, veal, &c. They have all of them clean linen once a week: it is walked by the women prisoners. The Keeper makes every morning a report

114. FOREIGN PRISONS.

to Monsieur Babo of the state of his House as to numbers, health, &c.

A capuchin says Mass in the Chapel every morning. A gallery for men; another for women, with a blind before it: another for Orphans, of whom there are sixty-four in a sort of Hospital at one end of the Prison. Protestants and Jews are ordered to their private devotions: the latter are excused from working on their Sabbath.

[Hanover.]

THE Prison at Hanover was built about thirty years ago. It is situated on the river Leyna. There are eleven strong rooms, about ten feet square, and ten and a half high; with a bed of solid stone in each, eleven inches from the ground, and nine inches higher at the head. Over these are larger apartments for debtors &c. The rooms are warmed by stoves in winter. Criminals have a small chain: they are allowed straw to lie on, and two coverlids. When I visited the Prison there were seven criminals and one debtor. The Keeper sells no liquors, but has a salary. In the Council-Chamber are all the various Edicts in frames. There is a Torture-Chamber, but I with pleasure learned that the two cruel engines had not been used for four years.

[Lunenburg.]

LUNENBURG. I found the criminals here employed on a different work from any I had before seen: digging stone

Sect. IV. GERMANY. 115

from a large chalk-hill called Kalck-Berg. Others were preparing it for the kiln, grinding, sifting, packing &c. in the warehouses. The casks are about three hundred weight. It is sent to Hamburgh and other distant places, as it makes an excellent cement. Many other men were employed; but the criminals, of whom there were thirty-one, had a chain of about four pounds. Their allowance was a pound and half of bread, and three halfpence in money: provisions much cheaper than in England.

[Hamburgh.]

AT Hamburgh Felons in the Butteley were all in irons. Hamburg The common method of execution is decollation. The Executioner, who is Gaoler, shewed me the sword which, he said, he had made use of eight times.

Among the various engines of torture, or the question, which I have seen in France and other places, the most excruciating is kept and used in a deep cellar of this Prison. It ought to be buried ten thousand fathom deeper*. It is said the inventor was the first who suffered by it: the last was a woman, not two years ago.

Here, as at some other towns, is a Prison for slight offences. The punishment, to be confined from a week to a month, and live on bread and water only. To prevent

* See the Marquis Beccaria, Chap. XVI.

116 FOREIGN PRISONS.

the prisoners having any thing else, what money they bring with them is taken, and sealed up; but it is returned to them when discharged.

In this great city, supposed to contain ninety thousand souls, there were but three Debtors: and in the neighbouring town Altena, which belongs to the king of Denmark, but two.

IT will perhaps be expected that I should say something of the Houses of Correction at the great and opulent city of Hamburgh. I was there near a week, and visited all the Prisons with every advantage, through the kindness of my friend. Senator Voght. In the great House of Correction, which is a sort of Work-house, and not reckoned infamous, various kinds of work were carrying on; as knitting, spinning, weaving linen, hair, and wool, rasping logwood and hartshorn. A regular book is kept of the earnings, one fourth of which, I was informed, was given to each, as they worked more or less. This House is governed by eight Directors, who must be married men. Two of them visit it every Wednesday and Saturday; on the latter day along with the Ladies, who deliver out the women's work, and have a room for the purpose. Many hundreds are confined here. In the great room I saw about three hundred women and girls all busily employed both times I was

Sect. IV. GERMANY. 117

there. Although the House is situated near the Alster, and visited by Ladies, I cannot say much in favour of its neatness or cleanliness.

In the Spin-House, which is accounted infamous, even the men were not obliged to rasp logwood, but were employed in spinning, in more lightsome rooms than those of the other House. In this were seventy-three prisoners.

[Bremen.]

AT Bremen the Prison for Debtors has four rooms; but the Magistrate who accompanied me, Dr. Hornwinckel, assured me not one of them had been occupied for above thirty years, till very lately; when one was fitted up for a debtor, who was confined in it a few weeks. Over the door of this Prison is inscribed

Hic fraudum terminus esto.

That there were few Debtors, or none at all, in such towns as Mentz, Coblentz, Manheim, &c. may be ascribed to their being places of but little trade. In such large trading cities as Hamburgh, and Bremen, it seems owing to the little credit that is given — the expence of aliment &c. falling on the creditor — the being deprived of every kind of amusement and diversion while in Prison — and the disgrace of being there.

118 FOREIGN PRISONS.

Debtors are not permitted in any German cities that I have seen, to have their wives and children living with them in Prison.

The House of Correction at Bremen, situated on the Weser, is indeed a House of industry; yet very quiet. There were eleven men, and twenty-eight women, all at work; except a woman who had broke her leg. The stronger and less docile men rasp Logwood: others weave a set task of Hair Carpets, &c. The Keeper appoints a weaver in the House to instruct every new comer, who generally teaches him the art in a short time. The women's apartments were very clean: their work is spinning, knitting, &c. The Keeper has a salary; and sells nothing.

I sat an afternoon with Dr. Duntze of Bremen, who told me he was in London in 1753 and 54 with an inquisitive friend, a German. They went into Newgate to observe the effects of the Ventilator, and were struck with an offensive smell in one of the rooms. Next day they were both indisposed. The Doctor's complaint turned out a kind of jaundice. After a few days confinement he visited his friend, and found him excessively low; and in a short time he died with every symptom of the Gaol-Fever.

[Zell.]

AT Zell in the Electorate of Hanover, is a large House of Correction; and

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 119

AT Cassel is another, with a work-room one hundred and ten feet by twenty-five, and twelve feet high. It was built by Charles, grandfather to the present Landgrave. I shall not, however, enter into a minute detail of the discipline in these two, and other Houses of the same sort in Germany. Those in Holland and Flanders are better conducted: and my account of them shall be more particular.

HOLLAND.

PRISONS in the United Provinces are so quiet, and most of them so clean, that a visitor can hardly believe he is in a Gaol. They are commonly (except the Rasp-Houses) white-washed once or twice a year: and a prisoner told me it was no small refreshment to go into their rooms after such a thorough cleaning. A Physician and Surgeon is appointed to every Prison; and prisoners are in general healthy.

In most of the Prisons for Criminals there are so many rooms that each prisoner is kept separate. They never go

120 FOREIGN PRISONS.

out of their rooms: each has a bedstead, straw, and coverlid. But there are few criminals, except those in the Rasp-Houses and Spin-Houses. In all the seven Provinces seldom more executions in a year than from four to six*. One reason of this, I believe, is the awful solemnity of executions, which are performed in presence of the Magistrates, with great order and seriousness, and great effect on the spectators. I did not see the process in Holland; but it was particularly described to me, and was similar to what I had been witness of in another place abroad.

The common method of execution is decollation by a broad sword. For the more atrocious crimes, such as premeditated murder &c. the malefactor is broken on the wheel; or rather on a cross laid flat upon the scaffold. But a description of the manner of this execution, which is finished by a Coup de Grace on the breast, would not be agreeable to any of my readers.

Debtors also are but few. The Magistrates do not approve of confining in idleness any that may be usefully employed. And when one is imprisoned, the Creditor must pay the Gaoler for his maintenance, from eight to eighteen stivers a day, according to the Debtor's former condition in

* I was told in Scotland that the number of executions there is nearly the same.

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 121

life. The aliment must be paid every week: in default whereof, the Gaoler gives eight days notice; and if within that time, the money, or security for it, be not brought, the debtor is discharged.

Another reason is, that the situation is very disgraceful. But perhaps the principal cause that debtors, as well as capital offenders, are few, is the great care that is taken to train up the children of the poor, and indeed of all others, to industry. No debtors have their wives and children living with them in Prison: but occasional visits in the day-time are not forbidden. You do not hear in the streets as you pass by a Prison, what I have been rallied for abroad, the cry of poor hungry starving Debtors.

The States do not transport criminals: but men are put to labour in the Rasp-Houses, and women to proper work in the Spin-Houses: upon this professed maxim. Make them diligent and they will be honest. The rasping logwood, which was formerly the principal work done by the men criminals, is now in many places performed at the mills, much cheaper: and the Dutch, finding woollen manufactures more profitable, have within these last twelve years, set up several of them in those Houses of Correction. In some, the work does not only maintain the prisoners; but they have a little extra-time to earn somewhat for their better living in Prison, or for their benefit afterwards.

122 FOREIGN PRISONS.

Great care is taken to give them moral and religious instruction, and reform their manners, for their own and the public good. The Chaplain (such there is in every House of Correction) does not only perform public worship, but privately instructs the prisoners, catechises them every week &c. and I am well informed that many come out sober and honest*. Some have even chosen to continue and work in the House after their discharge.

Offenders are sentenced to these Houses, according to their crimes, for seven, ten, fifteen, twenty years and upwards: but, to prevent despair, seldom for life. As an encouragement to sobriety and industry, those who distinguish themselves by such behaviour, are discharged before the expiration of their term. A prisoner who gives information of an intended escape is favoured much in this respect: his term is considerably shortened. A little before the election of new Magistrates, those who are in office inspect these Prisons; and inquire of the Keeper which prisoners,

* I have heard in England that a countryman of ours, who was a prisoner in the Rasp-House at Amsterdam several years, was permitted to work at his own trade, shoe-making; and by being constantly kept employed, was quite cured of the vices which brought him to confinement. My informant added, that the prisoner received at his release a surplus of his earnings, which enabled him to set up in London; where he lived in credit, and at dinner commonly drank "Health to his worthy Masters at the Rasp-House.”

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 123

of those who have been confined a few years, have, been diligent and orderly: and of the Minister, which of them have been most attentive to public and private instructions. According to the accounts, they contract the appointed time of punishment: so that fourteen years will sometimes be reduced to eight or ten; and twelve years to six or seven. This practice of abridging the time of punishment upon reformation is in every view wise and beneficial. Indeed, I have some reason to think that criminals are often doomed to a longer term, with an intention to make such deductions upon their amendment.

I was informed that the work done in some of these Houses of Correction (especially where the men are employed in rasping) does not maintain them: though the men that are robust earn from eight to ten stivers a day; and healthy women by spinning &c. from four to six. But some earn less; those who are infirm very little: none however are quite idle but the sick. This is surely excellent policy, for besides guarding against the pernicious effects of idleness in a Prison, and breaking criminals to habits of industry, if work so constant does not support the Houses, how much heavier would be the public burden, maintaining the numerous offenders in these Prisons, if, as in many of our Bridewells, no work at all were done there

In Holland, as well as in Germany, there are private

124 FOREIGN PRISONS.

rooms in most of the Houses of Correction, in which young persons of a vicious and profligate turn are confined on the representation of their parents, till they shew signs of amendment.

[Amsterdam.]

AT Amsterdam the Prison is under the Stadt-House. Debtors and felons quite separate. No court-yard. Visitants may converse with debtors at the lattices of their rooms, from nine to twelve in the forenoon. The debtor may buy an anchor of wine to deposite with the Keeper (who sells liquors): he is allowed to call for a bottle of it a day, paying the Keeper two stivers a bottle.

In this city they compute 250,000 souls*; about one third of those in London: yet in 1775 I found but eighteen debtors, in 1776 only fifteen.

The rooms for criminals are down fifteen steps: ten feet by nine: in each, one prisoner only: a bedstead &c. door-way

* In the Stadt-House there is hung up to public view, a board shewing the mortality for the last two years, and for the last week, viz.

Deaths in 1774, — 6649

1775, — 7895.

August 6th, 1776, — 120

The year 1775 was very sickly. — Sir William Petty in his Tracts, page 155, gives for the year 1685 the number of Burials in Amsterdam 6245.

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 125

way twenty-two inches wide; door four inches thick: the condemned rooms have an iron door besides. In the latter a criminal is never left alone: two prisoners from the Rasp-House are always with him, to prevent his destroying himself. They rejoice at the service; for if they discharge it faithfully, their reward is an abridgment of their allotted term. I was credibly informed, that there was no execution here for the last two years: and that for a hundred years past there have not been, communibus annis, more than one a year. It is generally performed within forty-eight hours after sentence.

In the Stadt-House there were six delinquents. Their allowance is nine stivers a day, for which the Keeper gives them — in the morning, four good slices of bread and butter — at dinner, rice soup, and two slices of bread — at supper, milk — besides about a quart of beer a day; and on Sunday three quarters of a pound of meat. He also pays for their weekly shaving, and for washing their linen. In some other Provinces the allowance is the same: in some, more. One of the Magistrates, with whom I was conversing upon the subject of English Prisons, said "Nourish your prisoners well, and keep them in dry rooms, and they will be healthy.”

[Rasp-House.]

At the rasp-house over the gate is, in bas relief, a device

126 FOREIGN PRISONS.

somewhat like that at Mentz. At the inner gate is (as at other Rasp-Houses) a representation of two men rasping Logwood: which is here their principal employment. Yet regard is had not only to their degree of guilt, but to their strength: for I saw two men winding silk or thread. This last summer there were fifty-four prisoners. In some rooms, where they also sleep, were ten or twelve men rasping an appointed task. Others were in the warehouses, sorting and weighing; others bringing the wood to those rooms. If any one be idle, or refractory &c. he is shut up in a place of closer confinement under ground. I saw one who was so punished for burning logwood: he told me his sentence was for six weeks. On careful inquiry, I learned, that what has been said of a cellar, in which such transgressors are put to pump or drown, is not fact. Hours of work from six to twelve, and from one to four. In extra-hours they make tobacco-boxes &c. which they sell to visitants, who pay two stivers to go in. They are daily visited by the Medical Faculty; and have in general a healthy look. I wished to know more particulars of this famous Prison; but could scarce ever get from the cautious old Keeper a direct answer to any one question: though I paid him five visits with that intent. I could not go into the rooms till last time I was there, when a Magistrate accompanied me. The Keeper was still as much upon the reserve as before: but without asking him, I saw his prison was dirty.

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 127

[Spin-House.]

In the spin-house (Spin-huis) you see a number of women criminals (there were thirty-two) some of whom had been the most abandoned; sitting in presence of the Mistress, quiet and orderly at their different sorts of work; spinning, plain work &c. Of the latter sort much is sent in from the city. Hours of work from six to twelve, and from one to eight. I saw them go from work to dinner: the Keeper as they call him Father presided. First they sang a Psalm: then they went in order down to a neat dining-room; where they seated themselves at two tables; and several dishes of boiled barley, agreeably sweetened, were set before them. The Father struck with a hammer: then in profound silence all stood up; and one of them read with propriety, a Prayer about four or five minutes. Then they sat down chearful; and each filled her bowl, from a large dish which contained enough for four of them. Then one brought on a waiter slices of bread and butter, and served each prisoner.

As I staid longer than a common visitant, one of the prisoners went up to the Mistress with the timid modesty of a suppliant, and asked leave to offer me the plate. The leave was granted. The Mistress keeps what is given, till it amounts to a sum sufficient to purchase a little Tea or Coffee, for all to partake.

Here (as at some other towns in Holland) is a Prison or

128 FOREIGN PRISONS.

Work-house for slighter offences; where prisoners are employed in Spinning, weaving coarse Carpets, picking Oakum &c.

[Dol-Huis.]

I will just mention the Dol-huis, an Hospital for the Insane: because it would (in my opinion) be a good plan for a Bridewell, with the addition of working rooms. The ground plot is rectangular: the Keeper's house takes up one of the shorter sides: the other three sides have, on the ground-floor, rooms in the recess of a walk full eight feet wide, under arcades; inclosed from the area or garden by a wall to the height of four feet: the upper part to the crown of the arch, open. Each person has a separate room, with two doors; the inner door is latticed; the outer, frequently stands open. Over the doors is an aperture in the wall, about a foot square. These rooms are for the Poor. Above are larger rooms for those whose friends can pay for them. Common visitants are not allowed to go up: but, injudiciously, every one that pays four stivers is admitted below. The windows all round open to the court-yard, none outwards.

[Hague.]

AT the Hague I was honoured with the very polite assistance of Sir Joseph Torke. A Magistrate accompanied me to the Prison; where all was quiet and in order. The same Gentleman presented me with a copy of Instructions to the Sheriff of the Court; a copy of Rules for Officers of the

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 129

the Attorney-General; and with a M.S. copy on several sheets, of forty-four Rules for the Management of the Prison. The Gaoler is never suffered to sleep out of the House, but with the express consent of the Court, or the Advocate &c. and when that leave is, on any special occasion granted, he must provide a Substitute approved by the Court &c. This Substitute is sworn to his temporary office. If any prisoner escapes, whether by the immediate fault of the Keeper, or the fault of his servants, he is to suffer the punishment that was due to the prisoner. He may not keep a tavern or alehouse; nor play at cards &c. with his prisoners: nor accept of any treat or gift from them, directly or indirectly, during their confinement or afterwards. He must keep the Prison neat and clean; furnish fresh straw once a week; and in winter coverlids. The Attorney-General or his Deputy is to see that all this be duly performed. The Keeper is to supply prisoners with good bread, soup, and beer. Those who pay eighteen stivers a day (or what other sum the Magistrates shall allow them to expend) are to have provision proportioned to that price. Visitants are not permitted to be in the Prison from eleven in the morning, till two: and are dismissed in the evening at six in summer, at four in winter. None to be admitted on Saturday: nor in time of Divine Service on Sunday. Candles to be taken away at nine. The Keeper to guard against accidents by fire.

130 FOREIGN PRISONS.

The Rules for Officers of the Attorney-General, and of the Sheriff have an admirable effect in preserving peace, and order. There are thirty-two of them. I cannot forbear abstracting a few. No officer to stir out of town without special leave: and while in town each must always give notice where he may be found. In case of fire they must immediately repair to the Court-Gate for instructions. Arrests of delinquents must be performed quietly. No officer to serve or watch instead of another. Neglect of duty through drunkenness is punished with living in Prison on bread and water at their own expence for three days, eight days, and at last, with discharge. They may not keep company with any persons in public houses &c. Giving ill language is punished by a fine: quarrels, at discretion of the Magistrates. Not giving information of defaulters is punished with discharge. They are to guard against being guilty of ill behaviour of any sort, that no dishonour may be cast upon the Court of Judicature. Each officer to have a copy of the Rules, and keep it to shew on demand, on pain of a fine. The whole to be read to them all together by the Sheriff once a month.

[Groningen.]

AT Groningen the Rasp and Spin-House together, has on the ground-floor rooms for men. In the floor above it are four apertures two feet by three and a half each into the wool warehouse above. These were lately made by the advice of a judicious Physician (a Professor), who thought

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 131

the men's rooms not sufficiently airy, though they have opposite windows; the men sleeping as well as working in them: on which account they are still somewhat offensive.

Women have a work-room, and a lodging-room quite separate: both of them very clean. All the prisoners are employed on a woollen manufacture.

[Lewarden.]

AT Lewarden the Rasp-House had in it thirty-four men: a few of them rasping Logwood, with an instrument composed of ten saws united: others combing and spinning black wool: others spinning twine; weaving sacks, and coarse linen cloth &c. At their leisure they make shoe-pegs, tobacco-stoppers, sugar-saucers of brass wire &c. and sell them to visitants. In the Spin-House adjoining, were thirty-six women: all at work, preparing thread &c. except one, whom the Mistress, going up with me from her breakfast, found idle in a warehouse; and not only rated her for it sufficiently, but entertained me with her murmurs upon the offence a good while after; from whence I concluded the fault was not a very common one.

[Utrecht.]

AT Utrecht no prisoners in the Stadt-House. The Keeper told me the allowance was twelve stivers a day: "for, said he, confinement here is not meant as punishment; but only as safe custody till trial*. After which,

* The same observation I remember was made to me by the Keeper at Nimeguen, where the allowance is ten stivers. Here also were no prisoners.

132 FOREIGN PRISONS.

"some who are to be punished by a short imprisonment are sent to another Prison, where they live on bread and water only.” He said a woman who had been his prisoner, was that day sentenced to be so punished for a fortnight: but he added, "She will have a sufficient quantity; and if she be ill, her food will be altered.”

[Delft.]

AT Delft there were near ninety in the House of Correction: men and women quite separate: all neat and clean, and looked healthy. They told me their allowance was five stivers a day*. All employed on a woollen manufacture — women spinning, carding &c. — men weaving from coarse to very fine Cloth: their task, to earn thirty-five stivers a week. Some earn a small surplus; but they have only half of it. A Burgomaster, to whom I mentioned that circumstance, said it was the truth. They do not put more than eight or ten men to work in one room: for when large numbers are together, one idle person corrupts more; and there is not generally so much work done. Here also, if a prisoner has behaved well for a few years, and given proofs of amendment, the Magistrates begin to abridge the time for which he was sentenced. One whom I saw very cheerful,

* A guinea 252d. is = 11 guilders 11 stivers = 231 stivers (for 20 stivers is a guilder) therefore stivers are to pence as 231/252 = 11/12: i.e. 11 stivers is equal to a shilling.

Sect. IV. HOLLAND. 133

told me the cause of his joy was that a year had lately been taken from his term.

[Rotterdam.]

AT Rotterdam in the Prison under the Stadt-House were neither debtors nor felons. In the Rasp and Spin-House about forty men and a hundred women. The former, three or four in a room, making Fishing-Nets, carding Wool, sorting Coffee &c. Women mostly employed on a manufacture of Worsted, spinning, and working at a great wheel like those which at Derby are turned by water.

[Pest-House.]

THE pest-house across the Maes opposite Rotterdam is a spacious building in a small isle. It is nearly a square of one hundred and thirty feet: has four spacious wards which are about thirty feet wide and twenty high. I mention this edifice, not only as it occurred to me that it. would be a good plan for a House of Correction, being airy, and built round a court in which is a bason of water communicating with the Maes; but on account of the sentiments of veneration it inspired, when I trod on the ground under which such piles of my brave countrymen lie buried; it having been used as a Military Hospital. after the siege of Bergen-op-Zoom.

134 FOREIGN PRISONS.

FLANDERS.

THE French Provinces here and in the Netherlands are chiefly governed by the same Arrét de Parlement as their Provinces in France. I will therefore mention only one circumstance at Arras in Artois which was different from what I had seen in France. Of one hundred and thirty-nine prisoners in this Gaol, I saw two in the court-yard who had irons. But upon asking one of them the reason of it, he told me "it was for attempting an escape.”

IN the Austrian Netherlands I found the Prisons in general clean; and no sickness prevailing in any one of them: and yet few of the Prisons have a court-yard: in most of them every prisoner is confined to his room. In some places, as at Antwerp &c. the allowance to Criminals is scanty; a pound of bread a day, and a pound of butter a week: but the deficiency is fully made up by supplies from the Monasteries &c. Debtors very few: alimented by creditors.

Sect. IV. FLANDERS. 135

[Brussels.]

AT Brussels twenty-four Felons: daily allowance two pounds of bread (pain de munition) and some soup: on Sunday, except in Lent, a pound of meat. A Keeper of the House of Correction was lately committed to this Gaol for abuse of his trust. Debtors are sent to another Prison: the creditor is obliged to advance a month's aliment. In that Prison I saw an Englishmen who had his wife and two or three children with him; but they were not permitted to stay at night.

[Vilforde.]

VILFORDE. The House of Correction now building near this town for all the provinces of Austrian Brabant, is upon the largest scale of any structure of the kind that I have seen. It is situated upon the great canal leading to Brussels; and is almost surrounded by water. The ground plot, a plan of which I have by me, is rectangular, except a sweep before the court of the Governor's house. The longer sides are about two hundred and ten yards; the shorter about one hundred and sixty-seven. At the back of one of the longer sides, fronting the West, I counted eighty windows on a floor. There are the same number opposite, looking inwards towards the courts. Each of these belongs to a separate room or cell, near six feet and a half by five and a half, and eight feet high; and a long passage eight feet and a half wide runs through each floor, into which all the opposite rooms open. Two floors of this side are finished, making three hundred and twenty rooms; there

136 FOREIGN PRISONS.

are two more, as yet unfinished, of the same number of rooms. Each of the two shorter sides has one hundred and seventy-six rooms, of the same size as the others, and on as many floors. Part of these sides are finished; so that, including some rooms on each side the Governor's house, about five hundred are now ready of the nine hundred and ninety-two. On some vacant ground at the shorter sides more rooms will be built if wanted. Of so great importance is it wisely judged by these Provinces to keep every prisoner at night by himself, that this vast number of rooms is contrived that each may lodge one person only.

On each side the gate of the court before the Governor's house is a Porter's lodge. Prisoners will pass this way to their respective wards behind the House. Those committed for life will be quite separate from those who are for a limited term: and men totally so from women; not only in their Wards, Work-rooms, and Refectories; but also in two distinct Chapels. These Chapels are octagons of about thirty-five feet; and on each floor the prisoners will have a room looking into them. The work-rooms are numerous; about forty feet by twenty: some up stairs, others under ground for weaving fine linen: but no prisoners are to sleep under ground. Staircases all stone, six feet wide: some dark cells for confining the refractory. A Kitchen forty-seven feet by thirty-four: Make house, and Slaughter house large in proportion, and commodious. Convenient apartments for

Sect. IV. FLANDERS. 137

several Chaplains: and proper rooms for a military guard. No prisoners as yet: and two spacious Infirmaries designed, are not begun.

[Mechlin.]

AT Mechlin one of the best rooms in the Prison is for Debtors: but none in it. Three criminals up stairs: no dungeons. Allowance, two sixpenny loaves and a pound of butter weekly: on Sunday a pound of meat, and some soup: three pints of small beer daily. Straw, and two blankets. Firing from the 1st of November to the 1st of May. Clean linen every week from a charity. I will not describe the mode of Torture.

[Bruges.]

AT Bruges there is to the Prison a court-yard for Criminals, and another for Debtors: but the former are never let out. Each sort has a daily allowance in money, about three-pence halfpenny English: provisions rather cheaper than in London: a clean shirt every week. Debtors have the allowance from their Creditors; who also pay the Keeper a small fee at the entrance of the prisoner, and a penny a day during his confinement. No under-ground dungeons. Two things are remarkable in this Prison, and well worth imitating. One is the care they take of the Sick. There are two Medical Books, one for the City, the other for the Seigneuries or Lordships of Parishes, which are governed by different Magistrates, but the Prison is common to both. The Physician at every visit enters his prescription

138 FOREIGN PRISONS.

in the respective Book, which is carried to the Apothecary; who after copying the Recipe, sends the book back again; and it is kept in the room where the Magistrates meet to hold a Court of Judicature, inspect the Prison &c. I spent some hours in looking over them. The prescriptions are written with regularity for many years past. Bark and Cordials were almost constant ingredients in the Recipe. They are not troubled with infectious distempers; but perhaps the Physicians are somewhat apprehensive of them, and order those preventives with success. The Physician orders a Surgeon to attend when the case requires one: and at his order also the Keeper provides for the sick. Soup, white Bread &c. the Magistrates allowing for this Fourteen-pence a day, to continue till countermanded by the Physician. Some sick prisoners have been many weeks thus liberally provided for.

The other exemplary practice is their care of Legacies and Donations. In the Council-Chamber, under a picture representing visiting the sick, feeding the hungry, and releasing the prisoner, there is in a frame a printed List of all Charities given or bequeathed to the Prisoners from the year 1315 to 1734; with the names and intentions of the several Donors: and in another small frame is a memorial of the time at which each bequest is to be distributed.

[Ghent.]

AT Ghent in the Prison at the superb Maison de Ville

Sect. IV. FLANDERS. 139

each criminal has from the city about four-pence halfpenny English, a day: and provision being there about one third cheaper than in London, some of them save a little out of that allowance after paying for the weekly washing of their linen.

In the State Prison, governed by other Magistrates, criminals have four-pence a day. In each of those Prisons the Keeper has from the Magistrates two-pence a day for the custody of every prisoner. In the two Prisons, four debtors.

Here is a Prison belonging to the rich Monastery of Benedictines in the Abbey of St. Peter. There are now thirty-five of the fraternity: who have many Lordships, and part of the City in their jurisdiction. The Prison joins to the Abbot's Court-House. Three dreary dungeons down nineteen steps: a little window in each: no prisoners. I went down; but my noting the dimensions of the windows &c. so enraged the Keeper, that he would not indulge my curiosity any farther.

The House of Correction for the City of Ghent is not so commodiously built, nor kept so clean as some other Flemish Prisons: but there are very good Rules of Oeconomy, of which I have a copy. Every prisoner is examined at his first coming; and if he be not healthy, he is

140 FOREIGN PRISONS.

not put among those that are so. That the Keeper may not be tempted to oppress his prisoners, he is exempted from all Taxes. The prisoners have a set task of different sorts of work: the profits of extra-work their own. The Magistrates meet in the Prison once a week to inspect it; and to appoint the sort and quantity of provision for every day of the week ensuing. They order the Physician to see that the sick have broth, and other nourishment proper for them. The Keeper provides it and is paid by the Magistrates. I happened to go into the Prison while they were there, and saw them employed as above.

I beg leave here, on account of the humanity of its institution, to digress from my subject by taking notice of a Nunnery in this place. The Hospitable Mansion is not inhabited solely by Nuns; it is destined to the reception of men who are insane, and sick aged women. The insane have, when requisite, assistance from their own sex; and the tenderness with which both these and the poor women are treated by the sisters, gave me no little pleasure.

[La Maison de Force.]

There is at Ghent a new Prison building by the States of Austrian Flanders. It is a House of Correction for all those Provinces (as that at Vilforde for Austrian Brabant) and is called La Maison de Force. It is situated near a Canal. The plan is an Octagon: only four sides finished; in one of them were in 1775 one hundred and fifty-nine men criminals:

[Illustration.]

FLANDERS. 141

this year one hundred and ninety-one. Another of the sides is for women, of whom there were fifty-nine. In the middle of this court is a bason of running water, for washing all the Linen of the House.

On each of the four floors there is a corridor, or arcade, six feet nine inches wide, quite open to the air of the yard, which, however, is not attended with any inconvenience, even in winter. In the recess of every corridor, except the lowest, is a range of bed-rooms, six feet nine inches by four feet ten, and eight feet eight inches high: the doorway two feet. These are uniformly furnished with a bed-stead, six feet and a half by two and a half, a straw bed, a mattress, a pillow, a pair of sheets, two blankets in winter and one in summer. Each room has a little bench, and a shutter to the lattice window (in the door), which, when opened and turned down, serves for a table. In the wall is a little cupboard, two feet by one, and ten inches deep. All the rooms are vaulted to prevent fire from running from story to story. No person is on any pretence admitted into the bed-room of another. They have a clean shirt once a week, and clean sheets once a month. The women have not separate rooms. Some of theirs are ten feet and a half by nine and a half.

In order to the admission of a prisoner, previous notice must be given by the City or Province that sends him.

142 FOREIGN PRISONS.

When he comes, he is shaved and washed: a Surgeon examines him; and if healthy, he is cloathed with the uniform of the House, which is marked with the number of his room; to it he is conducted by one of the most orderly of the prisoners; who is appointed to that service, and who also acquaints him with the Rules of the House. Commitment from one year to twenty or more.

A bell is rung in the morning to summon the prisoners into the dining-room; in the summer at five; in winter the hour varies with the length of the days. Half an hour after the bell rings, their names are called over; and they go to Prayers in a Chapel. They are then allowed half an hour to breakfast. At noon they have two hours, for dinner; making their beds (which in fair weather they bring out to air); and for recreation. I was present during the whole time the men criminals were at dinner, and much admired the regularity, decency, and order, with which the whole was conduced. Every thing was done at a word given by a Director; no noise or confusion appeared; and this company of near one hundred and ninety stout criminals was governed with as much apparent ease as the most sober and well-disposed assembly in civil society. At night they have an hour for supper &c. The bell gives notice of all these successive hours: it is rung at a window over the gate-way by a Centinel, who there overlooks the whole yard; and, should there be any disturbance, is to give the alarm to a company who keep guard.

Sect. IV. FLANDERS. 143

On the ground-floors of the building are work-rooms. Those for the men are too small for the looms &c. The women's work-room is one hundred and seventeen feet long, twenty-six wide, and nine to the springing of the arch. In this many were spinning and combing wool; mending linen, &c. Others were washing in places proper for that purpose.

An exact account is kept of every circumstance relating to each man's work, in a Book that has fourteen columns. The 1st Column contains the Names of Prisoners.

2. The Sort of Stuff on which each Man is employed; as Shalloon, Cloth, Dimity &c.

3. The Number that is marked on the Piece.

4. The Day it was begun.

5. The Day it was finished.

6. Measure of the whole Piece.

7. Number of Working-Days, the Prisoner was upon it.

8. The Task due per Day.

9. Surplus Work upon the Piece beyond Talk.

10. Price of the Piece per Ell.

11. Observations, or Occasional Circumstances: such as Sick, Lame, difficult Work, first Piece &c.

12. Payment to Prisoners for Surplus Work.

13. Deficiency of Task.

14. Punishment for the Default.

This last column is written by the Magistrates themselves.

144 FOREIGN PRISONS.

I saw in it — often excuse — sometimes make up in next piece — sometimes to work alone — to bread and water — seldom to rasping logwood. The daily allowance is two pounds of bread; some soup of beans, pease &c. with wheat-bread in it; and except Friday and Lent half a pound of cold meat. Each prisoner has also the value of our farthing, for which he can buy near two pints of small beer; or somewhat else which the victualler of that Prison is allowed to sell, and deliver to them at a wicket in the wall. Spirituous liquors are expressly prohibited: and so is wine, unless it be ordered by a note from the Physician. It is not allowed to give any thing directly to the prisoners: but there is a box into which money may be put; and at stated times it is equally distributed among them. Cards, Dice, and all gaming are strictly forbidden: and there are excellent Rules for preventing all quarreling; for mending their morals; preserving their health; and making them for the future useful in Society. To transcribe all the Rules would to most readers be disagreeable. Such as wish to see them will find them, together with more particulars of this noble Institution, in two Edicts printed in folio at Ghent in 1773 and 75: the first in French and Low Dutch; the latter only French: and in a book in quarto written by Count Vilain XIV. and offered to the Government in 1775.

The title of it is Memoire sur les Moyens de corriger les Malfaiteurs et Faineans a leur propre Avantage et de les rendre Utiles a l'Etat. A Gaud &c.

Sect. IV. FLANDERS. 145

I said transcribing all the Rules at length, would be tedious; for this reason I have only given extracts from these, and from those made for other Foreign Prisons. I have compleat copies of them, and of others which I have not mentioned; some printed, others M.S. which I will readily show to any Gentleman who has leisure and inclination to study the subject.

WHEN I formerly made the tour of Europe, I seldom had occasion to envy Foreigners any thing I saw with respect to their Situation, their Religion, Manners or Government. In my late journeys to view their Prisons, I was sometimes put to the blush for my native country. The Reader will scarcely feel from my narration the same emotions of shame and regret as the comparison excited in me, on beholding the difference with my own eyes. But from the account I have given him of Foreign Prisons, he may judge whether a design of reforming our own be merely visionary — whether Idleness, Debauchery, Disease, and Famine be the necessary attendants of a Prison, or only connected with it in our ideas for want of more perfect knowledge, and more enlarged views. I hope too he will do me the justice to think that neither an indiscriminate admiration of every thing foreign, nor a fondness of censuring every thing at home, has influenced me to adopt the language of a Panegyrist in this part of my work, or that of a Complainant in the rest.

146 FOREIGN PRISONS.

Where I have commended I have mentioned my reasons for so doing; and I have dwelt perhaps more minutely upon the management of Foreign Prisons, because it was more agreeable to me to praise than to condemn. Another motive induced me to be very particular in my accounts of Foreign Houses of Correction, especially those of the freest States. It was to counteract a notion prevailing among us that compelling prisoners to work, especially in public, was inconsistent with the principles of English Liberty; at the same time that taking away the lives of such numbers, either by executions, or the diseases of our Prisons, seems to make little impression upon us. Of such force is custom and prejudice in silencing the voice of good sense and humanity!

I have only to add that, fully sensible of the imperfection which must attend the cursory survey of a traveller, it was my study to remedy that defect by a constant attention to the one object of my pursuit alone, during the whole of my two last journeys abroad.

SECTION V.

A PARTICULAR ACCOUNT OF ENGLISH PRISONS.

AS the Tables of which the present Section will chiefly consist, contain several terms which cannot be expected to be familiar to the generality of my Readers, I shall begin with an explanation of them.

IN the first page of every County, City, &c. the second article of the Gaoler or Keeper's emolument is Fees; by which are meant such only as are taken by him and his servants on the admission or discharge of a Prisoner. The sums set down under this head are from the best information I could procure in my repeated journeys; but they differ sometimes from those specified in the Tables of Fees where such are found.

The next article under Gaoler is Transports. The sum set down to this, is what (from the best intelligence I

148 ENGLISH PRISONS.

could gain) I found was allowed them for conveying convicts sentenced to transportation to the respective sea-ports; and for paying the Merchant who contracts what he was supposed to demand for their passage: although by the statutes 4th George I. and 8th of his present Majesty, it is enacted that "The person or persons so contracting — shall have a Property and Interest in the service of the said offenders for such Terms of years.”

Under Prisoners in the same page, the number which I found in the respective County-Gaol on my different visits is distinguished into Debtors and Felons The &c. is meant to include two kinds of Prisoners chiefly; viz. Fines and Petty Offenders. By Fines is understood such as are confined till they pay a sum of money, a Fine: — such as are obliged to find security for good behaviour: — and such as are committed for a limited term to mere confinement, or (which is much the same) to hard labour. Of these latter most have been previously whipped, or burnt in the hand. The Petty Offenders are such as are sent to Gaols instead of Bridewells, for reasons mentioned in a former Section. These also in some Gaols are called Fines. Besides these there are some times a few Deserters.

Wherever there were Tables of Fees I thought myself obliged to give exact and literal copies of them: I am not therefore answerable for the improprieties of expression or

Sect. V. ENGLISH PRISONS. 149

defects of form to be found in some of them. The articles and sums, I say, in these Tables are literally copied; but I have taken the liberty, in order to prevent tiresome and useless repetitions, to abridge the formalities of preamble and conclusion. For the same reason, I have used the same liberty, with regard to the Rules and Orders of the few Prisons that have such; and to the Lists of Benefactions and Legacies. Where no mention is made of Rules &c. it may be concluded that there are none hung up in that Prison. Where there is no Table of Fees I commonly note the defect*.

I have described no Prison but from my own examination at the several dates set down before the number of Prisoners. I entered every room, cell, and dungeon with a memorandum-book in my hand, in which I noted particulars upon the spot. My descriptions will to some readers appear too minute; but I chose rather to relate circumstances, than to characterize in general terms. By these, the Legislature will be better acquainted with the real state of Gaols; and Magistrates will be able to judge whether

* It should be observed that by the statute 32d George II. if any Gaoler, or Keeper, demand Fees not set down in a Table signed by the Justices, and afterwards confirmed by the Judge or Judges of Assize, and Justices, and hung up conspicuous in the Prison; such demand is illegal, and the Offender is liable to a penalty of fifty pounds to the person injured.

150 ENGLISH PRISONS.

the Prisons over which they preside, and to which they commit offenders, be fit for the purposes they are designed to answer. I might add, that a variety of descriptions may possibly suggest something useful in the plans of such Prisons as may hereafter be erected; since whatever may appear worth copying may be extracted from any.

I have here and there taken the liberty of pointing out what seemed to me, as I viewed a Prison, an obvious remedy of some defect that happened to strike me. But I did not examine with the accuracy of a Surveyor; and hope I shall not be thought to direct in the style of a Dictator.

NEWGATE.

[Illustration of Newgate.]

LONDON. 151

NEWGATE.

GAOLER, Richard Akerman.

Salary, £200.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 8: 10

Felons, 0: 18: 10

Misdemeanours or Fines, 0: 14: 10

Transports, 0: 14: 10

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance to

Debtors, } a penny loaf a day. (See Remarks.)

Felons, }

Garnish, Debtors, £0 5: 6

Felons &c. 0: 2: 6

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1775, March 5, - 33 - 190

1776, March 1, - 38 - 129

1776, May 17, - 46 - 212

1776, Dec. 26, - 33 - 152

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Villette.

Duty — Sunday twice; every day Prayers; once a month Sacrament.

Salary, £35, &c. (See Remarks.)

SURGEON, Mr. Olney.

Salary, £50, for all Prisoners.

[Remarks.]

THE Builders of Old Newgate seem to have regarded in their plan, nothing but the single article of keeping prisoners in safe custody. The rooms and cells were so close, as to be almost the constant

152 LONDON.

[Newgate.]

seats of disease, and sources of infection; to the destruction of multitudes, not only in the Prison, but abroad. The City had therefore very good reason for their resolution to build a new Gaol. The Plate will give a better idea of it than any description. I give the plan, rather to gratify the curiosity of my Readers, than as a model to be followed. Many inconveniences of the old Gaol are avoided in this new one: but it has some manifest errors. It is now too late to point out particulars. All I will say, is, that without more than ordinary care, the prisoners in it will be in great danger of the Gaol-Fever.

The Cells built in Old Newgate a few years since for condemned malefactors, are intended for the same use at present. I shall therefore give some account of them. There are upon each of the three floors five cells: all vaulted, near nine feet high to the crown. The cells on the ground-floor measure full nine feet by near six; the five on the first story are a little larger, on account of the set-off in the wall; and the five uppermost, still a little larger for the same reason. In the upper part of each cell, is a window double grated, near three feet by one and a half. The doors are four inches thick. The strong stone wall is lined all round each cell with planks, studded with broad-headed nails. In each cell is a barrack-bedstead. I was told by those who attended me, that criminals who had affected an air of boldness during their trial, and appeared quite unconcerned at the pronouncing sentence upon them, were struck with horror, and shed tears when brought to these darksome solitary abodes.

The New Chapel is plain and neat. Below are three or four pews for men felons &c. On each side is a gallery: that towards the women's ward is for them: in it is a pew for the Keeper, whose presence

LONDON. 153

may set a good example and be otherwise useful. The other gallery towards the debtors ward is for them. The stairs to each gallery are on the outside of the Chapel.

I went once to Prayers there. Mr. Villette read them distinctly, and with propriety; the few prisoners who were present, seemed attentive: but we were disturbed by the noise in the yard. Mr. Villette told me "that was always the case, even on Sundays.” Surely they who will not go to Chapel, who are by far the greater number, should not be suffered to hinder the edification of such as are better disposed.

The Chaplain (or Ordinary) besides his salary, has a House in Newgate-street, clear of Land-Tax; two Freedoms yearly, which commonly sell for twenty-five pounds each; Lady Barnadiston's Legacy, six pounds a year; an old Legacy paid by the Governors of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, ten pounds a year; the City generally presents him once in six months with another Freedom. He engages when chosen to hold no other living.

Debtors have every day from the Chamber of London sixteen stone of beef: Fines eight stone: and some years Felons eight stone. Debtors have several Legacies. I inquired for a list of them, and Mr. Akerman told me "The Table in Maitland's Survey, which he shewed me, was authentic.” The amount of it is £53 5: 8 a year. He said there were also a few more.

154 LONDON.

[Newgate.]

TABLE OF FEES.

[London ss.]

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of Newgate within the said City of London for any Prisoner or Prisoners committed or coming into Gaol or Chamber-Rent there or discharge from thence in any civil action settled and established the nineteenth day of December in the third year of the reign of his Majesty King George the Second Annoque Domini 1729 pursuant to an Act of Parliament lately made intituled An Act for the Relief of debtors with respect to the Imprisonment of their Persons.

£. S. D.

Every Prisoner on the master side shall pay to the Keeper for his entrance-fee — 0: 3: 0

Every Prisoner on the master side shall pay for chamber room use of bed bedding and sheets to the Keeper there being two in a bed and no more each per week — 0: 1: 3

Every Prisoner on the said master side who at his own desire shall have a bed to himself, shall pay to the Keeper for chamber room use of bed bedding and sheets per week — 0: 2: 6

Every Debtor shall pay to the Keeper for his discharging fee — 0: 6: 10

And to all the Turnkeys two shillings and no more — 0: 2: 0

No other Fee for the use of chamber bed bedding or sheets or upon the commitments or discharge of any Prisoner on any civil action.

Edwd Becher

Robt Alsop

Ino Barnard

Robt Raymond

 

R. Eyre

 

Thos Pengelly

LONDON. 155

Mr. Akerman shewed me another Table of Fees which was given him for his direction when he commenced Keeper. It is as follows:

Fees to be taken by the Keeper of Newgate.

£. S. D. 

For every Debtor's discharge — 0: 8: 10

For every Felon's discharge — 0: 18: 10

For every Misdemeanour — 0: 14: 10

Every Debtor's entrance on the Master's side — 0: 3: 0

Every Felon's entrance on the Master's side — 0: 10: 6

Every Person admitted into the Press-yard — 3: 3: 0

For every Transport's discharge — 0: 14: 10

For every Bailable Warrant — 3: 6: 8

156 LONDON.

HIS MAJESTY'S PRISON

THE FLEET, for debtors.

WARDEN, John Eyles, Esq.

Deputy Warden and Clerk of the Papers, Daniel Hopkins.

Salary,

Fees, £ 1: 6: 8 } on entrance, per account from the Prisoners.

0: 2: 0 Turnkey, } 

Licence, for Beer and Wine to John Cartwright, who holds of the Warden on lease the Tap &c. (See Remarks.)

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, 0: 2: 0

Number - In the House. - In the Rules.

1774, April 26, - 171 - 71

1776, April 2, - 241 - 78

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Horner.

Duty — Sunday twice; Wednesday Prayers.

Salary,

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

TO this Prison were committed formerly those who incurred the displeasure of the Star-Chamber. In the 16th of Charles I. when that Court was abolished, it became a Prison for Debtors; and for

LONDON. 157

[Fleet.]

persons charged with contempts of the Courts of Chancery, Exchequer, and Common Pleas.

In 1728 many abuses practised by the Warden were the subject of parliamentary inquiry.

The Prison was rebuilt a few years since. At the front is a narrow court-yard. At each end of the building, there is a small projection, or wing. There are four floors, they call them Galleries, besides the cellar-floor, called Bartholomew-Fair. Each gallery consists of a passage in the middle, the whole length of the Prison, i. e. sixty-six yards; and rooms on each side of it about fourteen feet and a half by twelve and a half, and nine and a half high. A chimney and window in every room. The passages are narrow (not seven feet wide) and darkish, having only a window at each end.

On the first floor, the Hall-Gallery, to which you ascend eight steps, are, a Chapel, a Tap-room, a Coffee-room (lately made out of two rooms for Debtors), a room for the Turnkey, another for the Watchman, and eighteen rooms for Prisoners.

Besides the Coffee-room and Tap-room, two of those eighteen rooms, and all the cellar-floor, except a lock-up room to confine the disorderly, and another room for the Turnkey, are held by the Tapster, John Cartwright, who bought the remainder of the lease at public auction in 1775. The cellar-floor is sixteen steps below the hall-gallery. It consists of the two rooms just now mentioned, the Tapster's kitchen, his four large beer and wine cellars, and fifteen rooms for Prisoners. These fifteen, and the two before-mentioned

158 LONDON.

[Fleet.]

on the hall-gallery, the Tapster lets to Prisoners for four to eight shillings a week*.

On the first Gallery (that next above the hall-gallery) are twenty-five rooms for Prisoners. On the second Gallery twenty-seven rooms. One of them, fronting the staircase, is their Committee-room. A room at one end is an Infirmary. At the other end in a large room over the Chapel is a dirty Billiard-table; kept by the Prisoner who sleeps in that room. On the highest story are twenty-seven rooms. Some of these upper rooms, viz. those in the wings, are larger than the rest; being over the Chapel, the Tap-room, &c.

All the rooms I have mentioned are for Master's-side Debtors. The weekly rent of those not held by the Tapster is one shilling and three-pence unfurnished. They fall to the Prisoners in succession, thus: when a room becomes vacant, the first Prisoner upon the list of such as have paid their entrance-fees, takes possession of it. When the Prison was built, the Warden gave each Prisoner his choice of a room according to his seniority as Prisoner. If all the rooms be occupied, a new comer must hire of some tenant a part of his room; or shift as he can. Prisoners are excluded from all right of succession to the rooms held by the Tapster, and let at the high rents aforesaid.

The apartments for Common-side Debtors are only part of the right wing of the Prison. Besides the cellar (which was intended

* An imposition of the same kind is noted in the Report of the Gaol-Committee 1728.

LONDON. 159

[Fleet.]

for their kitchen, but is occupied with lumber, and shut up) there are four floors. On each floor is a room about twenty-four or twenty-five feet square, with a fire-place; and on the sides seven closets or cabins to sleep in. Such of these Prisoners as swear in Court or before a Commissioner that they are not worth five pounds, and cannot subsist without charity, have the donations which are sent to the Prison, and the begging-box, and grate. Of them there were at my last visit sixteen.

I have in the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons 1728 a Table of some Charities: but I saw no such Table in the Prison.

There is plenty of water from the river and pumps: and a spacious yard behind the Prison.

I mentioned the billiard-table. They also play in the yard at skittles, missisippi, fives, tennis. &c. And not only the Prisoners: I saw among them several butchers and others from the market; who are admitted here as at another public house. The same may be seen in many other Prisons where the Gaoler keeps or lets the tap. Besides the inconvenience of this to Prisoners; the frequenting a Prison lessens the dread of being confined in one.

On Monday night there is a Wine-Club: on Thursday night a Beer-Club: each lasting usually till one or two in the morning. I need not say how much riot these occasion; and how the sober Prisoners are annoyed by them.

160 LONDON.

[Fleet.]

Seeing the Prison crowded with women and children, I procured an accurate list of them and found that on or about the 6th of April 1776, when there were on the Master's side 213 Prisoners, on the Common side 30, Total 243, their wives (including women of an appellation not so honourable) and children were 475.

I was surprized to see in this Prison a Table of Fees containing only those of the Clerks of the Papers and Inquiries: and that the date of it was 1727, i.e. before the Committee of the House of Commons made their inquiry. I did not doubt but another Table was settled after that inquiry and that it contained the Warden's Fees also. But upon asking the Clerk of the Papers for a later Table, I was referred to that which hung up. It is as follows.

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Clerk of the Papers and by the Clerk of the Inquiries of the Fleet Prison pursuant to the Resolution of the Honourable X X of the Court of Common Pleas in the Easter and Trinity Terms 13th GEORGE 1st 1727.

RESOLUTION

6th. That there is due and ought to be paid to the Clerk of the Papers for every discharge of every action - 0: 2: 6

And for the copy of every cause not exceeding three - 0: 1: 0

And for each and every cause exceeding three causes - 0: 0: 4

Besides the 1st a piece for each of the said first three causes

LONDON. 161

[Fleet.]

£. S. D.

7th. That there is due and ought to be paid to the Clerk of the Papers for his Certificate of the Prisoner's discharge delivered to the Prisoner himself without any regard to the number of causes he stood charged with - 0: 2: 6

And for his Certificate to the Warden of discharge - 0: 2: 6

8th. That there is due and ought to be paid to the Clerk of the Inquiries on the discharge of a Prisoner by the Creditor and not by Supersedeas - 0: 2: 6

14th. That there is a fee of 5sh 4d due to the Clerk of the Papers for the allowance of every Writ of Habeas Corpus and 4sh for the Return of the first cause and 2sh for every other cause and no more.

THERE is in the Prison a Table of Rules or Orders. They were made at very distant times, from the reign of Queen Elizabeth, to the date they bear; and some of them partly coincide with others: those which do so I have put together to avoid repetition, and have presumed to abridge the whole 

HILARY 3d GEORGE II. 1729.

1. 2. 3. WARDEN or Deputy to appoint Turnkeys &c. with Arms: to stop persons bringing Arms and watch if an escape be in agitation.

4. Warden to distribute charity money. He or his Agent to keep one key of the box; and the Prisoners another.

162 LONDON.

[Fleet.]

5. 6. 12. If a Master-side Debtor shall neglect for three months to pay his chamber-rent; the Warden may, not lock him up, but, remove him to the Common-side; delivering to him his goods by a witnessed inventory. After discharge, if legal dues be still unpaid, he may be detained in the Common-ward: the door of which is never to be shut but at night (summer at ten, winter at nine): and then a Watchman must attend to open it for those who must go to the yard &c.

7. Such as attempt to escape, or greatly misbehave, may be shut up in a dole room or dungeon.

N.B. It was reported to the four Judges whose names are here subscribed, and who made inquiry concerning it, to be "boarded wholesome and dry”

8. 18. Warden to repair the whole House, Chapel, Drains &c. and keep all clean. To take care that Divine Service be duly performed, and the Sacraments administred. Prisoners to attend.

9. Against clandestine Fleet-marriages.

10. Those who blaspheme, curse, swear, or are disorderly, to be set in the stocks.

11. 13. Warden or Deputy to dispose of the chambers, and tap: and see that good order be observed in the public rooms &c.

14. Warden to take effectual care that no Prisoner be carried to a Spunging-house; and that no garnish be demanded from a new comer.

15. Warden to cause a Table of Gifts and Bequests, written in a fair and legible hand, to be hung up in the Hall. And to see that no Prisoner be defrauded of his share. None of the servants to partake or distribute.

LONDON. 163

[Fleet.]

16. Every Prisoner not worth five pounds &c. (As before in Remarks.)

17. Two rooms to be an Infirmary for Common-side Debtors. No Prisoner obliged to sleep with one that is diseased.

19. Coroner's Inquest upon the dead: and corps to be delivered to the friends, free of cost.

20. Warden not to remove a Prisoner to the King's Bench by Habeas Corpus.

21. 22, 23, 24, 25, 26. Warden to keep books, and register commitments, courts from whence, declarations, discharges, writs of Habeas Corpus. Tipstaff and Judge's Clerk to keep each a separate book of Prisoners delivered up at a Judge's Chamber.

27. All those books, except the Tipstaff's, to be kept in the Public Office of the Clerk of the Papers; accessible to all persons for copying &c.

28. No Clerk, Officer, or Servant of any Judge to take a Fee on occasion of a petition or complaint, founded upon the foregoing Orders, or any misgovernment.

29. That the Warden and his Officers do treat the several Prisoners in his custody with all tenderness and humanity: and that such Prisoners do behave themselves toward the Warden with that submission and regard which the law requires.

R. EYRE

ROBT PRICE

ALEX. DENTON

J. FORTESCUE A

164 LONDON.

[Fleet.]

THERE is, moreover, a little Code of Laws, eighteen in number, enacted by the Master's-side Debtors, and printed by D. Jones 1774. It establishes a President, a Secretary, and a Committee, which is to be chosen every month, and to consist of three members from each Gallery. These are to meet in the Committee-room every Thursday: and at other times when summoned by the Cryer, at command of the President, or of a majority of their own number. They are to raise contributions by assessment: to hear complaints: determine disputes: levy fines; and seize goods for payment. Their Sense to be deemed the sense of the whole House. The President or Secretary to hold the cash; the Committee to dispose of it. Their Scavenger to wash the galleries once a week; to water and sweep them every morning before eight to sweep the yard twice every week; and to light the lamps all over the House. No person to throw out water &c. any where but at the sinks in the yard. The Cryer may take of a Stranger a penny for calling a Prisoner to him; and of a Complainant two-pence for summoning a Special Committee. For blasphemy, swearing, riot, drunkenness, &c. the Committee to fine at discretion: for damaging a lamp, fine a shilling. They are to take from a New Comer, on the first Sunday, besides the two shillings garnish to be spent in wine, one shilling and six-pence to be appropriated to the use of the House.

Common-side Prisoners to be confined to their own apartments, and not to associate with these law-makers, nor to use the same conveniences.

LONDON. 165

NEW LUDGATE,

IN BISHOPGATE-STREET.

[Remarks.]

THIS Prison for Debtors who are free of the City, for Clergymen, Proctors and Attorneys, was formerly a Bridewell to the London Work-house adjoining.

On the ground-door are, a long-room, a tap-room, and a kitchen. In each of them is a staircase; leading first to eleven rooms for Master-side Debtors — viz. over the long-room, a sizeable chamber, and a room on each of the two floors above: over the tap-room, four small rooms, which have iron bars at the windows, and a larger room above them: over the kitchen, a sizeable chamber, and two rooms above. The Common-side Debtors are in two large garrets, the Forest and Dock.

The Prison is out of repair. No regard has been paid to the Act, which enjoins white-washing &c. A small Court-yard, with a Cistern for river-water. No Infirmary. The Chapel is common to the Prison and Work-house.

The City allowance is ten stone of beef a week: to which has been added since the 9th of February 1776, a penny loaf a day for each Prisoner. The Lord Mayor and Sheriffs send annually coals:

LONDON. 166

[New Ludgate.]

and Messrs. Calvert and Co. send from the Peacock-brewhouse weekly a generous donation of two barrels of small beer. Keeper's salary, £70: Fees, see Table. He lives distant; but the Deputy is constant and careful in his attendance, and respected by the Prisoners.

1774, April 27, - Prisoners 29

1776, March 7, - 31

1776, May 15, - 29

1776, Dec. 26, - 13

A TABLE OF FEES

To be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty's Prison of Ludgate.

£. S. D.

Every Prisoner shall pay at his or her coming in — 0: 1: 0

Every Prisoner shall pay for chamber room, bed bedding-and sheets, in the best side called the Master-side, being two in a bed, each per week — 0: 1: 3

Every Prisoner on the second lodging called the Common-side, shall pay for use of chamber-rent, bed, bedding, and sheets, two in a bed and no more, each per night — 0: 0: 1½

Every Prisoner who at his own desire shall have a bed to himself in any of the bell rooms called the Master-side j shall pay for bed bedding and sheets per week — 0: 2: 6

Every Prisoner who at his own desire has a bed to himself in the second lodging or Common-side, shall pay for chamber room, bed, bedding, and sheets per night — 0: 0: 3

LONDON 167

[New Ludgate.]

£. S. D.

Every Prisoner in the meanest ward, who at his own desire hath a bed to himself shall pay for the use of bedding &c. per night - 0: 0: 2

Every Prisoner in the meanest ward, two in a bed and no more, for the use of bed bedding &c. per night - 0: 0: 1

If the Prisoners find their own bedding (which the Keeper shall in no wise hinder) then they shall pay for chamber-room if more beds than one in a room, each per week - 0: 0: 3

If the Prisoner hath a room to himself, and provide himself with bed and bedding, which the Keeper is in no sort to hinder him of, then he shall pay for chamber-room per week - 0: 0: 4

The Prisoners inability to find a couch and to pay per week - 0: 0: 1

The forementioned were signed Febr 23. 1729 by

Aldermen

Becher

Alsop

Barnard

Raymond

Eyre

Pengelly

To the Keepers for Hatch-Fee at discharge - 0: 2: 0

To the Turnkey for ditto - 0: 1: 0

The date shews that these Fees were adapted to the old Prison, and its sundry wards.

ORDERED

WHOSOEVER on the Sabbath-day shall be absent from Chapel either at morning or evening service which ever may happen,

168 LONDON.

[New Ludgate.]

unless sickness, lameness or some other reasonable excuse be made appear sufficiently satisfactory, shall pay a fine of Four-pence into the hands of the Steward for the time being, for every such omission: and in failure thereof not to be admitted to any share of the allowance or transient benefactions, which the following week may produce.

Signed

James Esdale.

N.B. Whoever is not in Chapel before the second Lesson is ended, is forfeited as above.

A LIST OF BENEFACTORS To the PRISON of LUDGATE.

£. S. D.

SIR Thomas Gresham - 10: 0: 0

Sir Roger Martin - 2: 0: 0

Sir John Peachy - 0: 5: 0

Sir Thomas Kneesworth 1: 0: 0

Mr. James Smith - 0: 3: 4

Mr. John Draper - 0: 13: 4

Sir William Horne - 0: 5 0

Mr. Robert Ferebrace - 0: 6: 8

Lady Eliz. Maurice - 1: 0: 0

Sir William Peacock or Seacock - 1 10: 0

Mr. Thomas Cottle a hind quarter of beef, and a peck of oatmeal value - 1: 0: 0

Lady Mary North in bread - 3: 0: 0

Mr. William Roaper - 1: 0: 0

 

Mr. Thomas Dawson - 0: 9: 0

Mrs. Cooke, Widow of David Cooke - 0: 5: 0

Mrs. Margaret Dane, 18 stone of beef and some bread value - 1: 0: 0

Mr. John Heydon Aldn - 3: 0: 0

Lady Mary Ramsey - 2: 10: 0

Mr. Peter Blundell - 4: 0: 0

Mr. John Bennet - 1: 0: 0

Mrs. Holligrave, Widow - 0: 5: O

Mr. Robert Rogers - 1: 0: 0

Carried ever £33: 12: 4

 

LONDON. 169

£. S. D.

Brought over - 35: 12: 4 

Mr. Hugh Offley 0: 5: 0

Mrs. Joan Sanbeck - 1: 0: 0

Mr. John Symmonds - 0: 4: 0

Mr. John Marsh - 0: 5: 0

Mr. John Wooler - 1: 0: 0

Mr. William Parker - 1: 10: 0

Mr. Thomas Chapman - 0: 6: 0

Mr. Richard Jacob - 2: 0: 0

Mr. James Hodgson - 0: 10: 0

Mr. John Kendrick - 1: 10: O

Lady Mary Carew - 2: 0: 0

Mr. John Jackson - 1: 0: 0

Sir Ralph Freeman - 5: 0: 0

Dr. Lancelot Andrews - 5: 0: 0

Sir Thomas Cullum - 3: 0: 0

George Humble, Esq. - 14: 0: 0

Mr. Merrydith - 1: 2: 0

Mr. John Corbett - 2: 10: 0

Lady Rich - 30: 0: 0

John Holby, Esq. - 22: 0: 0

Total - £129: 14: 4

Mrs. Margaret Symcott every eighth week: five shillings worth of penny loaves, i e. - 1: 12: 6

This is called Eleanor Gwynn's Bread.

Mr. Thomas Stretchley every third year £2. and £4 to discharge two Prisoners every 5th year

Mrs. Eliz. Misson the yearly produce of £200 3 per cent. Annuitys for meat bread and coals - 6: 0: 0

Chamber of London yearly - 3: 2: 6

Worshipfull Compy of Mercers the yearly interest of £45 14: 1 old S. S. annuities, about - 1: 7: 0

Total £141: 16: 4

The Sums are called in my Copy, Yearly &c. Gifts of the respective Donors. I understand it to mean Bequests for ever.

170 LONDON.

POULTRY COMPTER.

KEEPER, Christopher Hayes, who purchased of the City for life and has sometimes let it.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, - £0: 15: 8

Felons, - 0: 13: 4

Transports, taken from the Old Bailey by Mr. Akerman.

Licence, for Beer and Wine. Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, a penny loaf a day. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a penny loaf a day.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 4: 8. It is called Ward-dues for Candles &c.

Felons, 0: 1: 6

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, April 26, - 77 - 10

1776, March 12, - 72 - 6

1776, May 15, - 90 - 11

1776, Dec. 3, - 53 - 0

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Dr. Trusler.

Duty — Every other Sunday evening. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £30.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

FOR Master's-side Debtors there are about fifteen rooms between the inner and outer gates. For Common-side Debtors, six wards within the inner gate, two of them on the ground-floor, viz. the

LONDON. 171

[Poultry Compter.]

King's Ward, in which were twenty-four Debtors; and the Prince's Ward, nine Debtors. In each of these wards, some Prisoners (for want of more room) sleep on a broad shelf or cabin over those on the lower beds. Above those wards are the Middle Ward, in it were twenty Debtors; and the Women's Ward, two Debtors. Above them are the Upper Ward, eleven Debtors; and the Jews Ward*, four Jew Debtors. Near the middle ward, on the same floor, is a close darkish room for the sick. In each ward, a fire-place. The rooms are out of repair: and no regard has been paid to the late Act for white-washing &c. but the Debtors keep the floors very clean. The yard is small, but that also is clean: the water constantly running.

The Tap-room is in the Court-yard. Adjoining to it is the Felons Day-room, the Bell. Their Night-rooms, one for men, another for women, are up stairs. But the women's room was once occupied for a workshop by a Prisoner, a cooper, and the women slept in the Bell below. No straw or bedding.

On one side of the Court-yard is a Chapel; with a narrow gallery all round for Master's-side Debtors. A man who is not in orders preaches on Sunday mornings; and gives the Prisoners books, or a little money: they spoke of him respectfully. The Chapel, and indeed the whole of this Prison, is quite out of repair.

At the roof of the Prison, all round, are spacious leads, on which the Master's-side Debtors are sometimes allowed to walk: but then the Keeper is with them: for the leads communicate with the adjoining

* It were to be wished that in other Prisons, those people had the generous and just indulgence of being kept separate.

172 LONDON.

[Poultry Compter.]

houses, one of which affords a ready escape from so close a Prison in case of fire.

Besides the penny loaf a day, which is from the Chamber of London, there are some Legacies: and the Prisoners (the Debtors) have also from the Peacock-brewhouse (Messrs. Calvert's and Co.) a kind donation of two barrels of small beer a week.

In this Prison eight men had with them their wives and nineteen children. The other Prisoners, I learned, had forty-four wives and one hundred and forty-four children, not in the Gaol.

The Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors are not hung up.

The Keeper pays the City £30 a year, rent, which is refunded to him for the Fees of the poorest Prisoners.

POULTRY COMPTER viz.

A TABLE of FEES taken by the Warden, Gaoler, or Keeper of the Poultry Compter within the City of London for any Prisoner or Prisoners Commitment or coming into Gaol, or Chamber-Rent there, or Discharge from thence, in any civil action settled and established the 15th January, in the 3d year of the reign of King George II. and in the year of our Lord 1719 pursuant to an Act of Parliament lately made, entitled ”An Act for the Relief of Debtors with respect to the Imprisonment of their Persons.”

£. S. D.

Every Prisoner who at his own desire shall go into the best ward on the Master-side shall pay to the Keeper for his Entrance Fee — 0: 3: 0

To the Turnkeys for such entrance — 0: 1: 0

Every Prisoner in the best ward on the Master-side to pay to the Keeper for his Discharging Fee — 0: 6: 10

LONDON. 173

[Poultry Compter.]

£. S. D.

To the Turnkeys upon such discharge — 0: 1: 0

Every such Prisoner in the best ward on the Master-side, who at his own desire shall have a bed to himself to pays for chamber-room use of bed bedding and sheets, to pay to the Keeper per week — 0: 2: 6

If two in a bed, and no more — for chamber room, use of bed bedding and sheets to pay to the Keeper each per week — 0: 1: 3

In the second ward on the Master-side to the Keeper for their entrance fee to pay — 0: 3: 0

To the Keeper on their discharge — 0: 6: 10

To the Turnkeys on such discharge — 0: 2: 0

Every such Prisoner at his own desire shall have a bed to him or herself to pay for chamber, use of bed bedding and sheets to the Keeper per week — 0: 2: 4

If two in a bed and no more to pay for chamber room use of bed bedding and sheets, each per week — 0: 1: 2

In the third ward commonly called the fifteenpenny ward entrance nothing, when discharged to the Keeper — 0: 6: 0

To the Turnkeys on such discharge — 0: 2: 0

Every such Prisoner shall have at his own desire a bed to him, or herself to pay to the Keeper for chamber room for the use of bed bedding and sheets, per week — 0: 1: 3

If two in a bed and no more, to pay for chamber room use of bed bedding and sheets, each per week — 0: 0: 7½

In the fourth or common ward, for entrance and lodging nothing

When discharged to the Keeper — 0: 6: 0

To the Turnkey on such discharge — 0: 3: 0

174 LONDON.

WOOD-STREET COMPTER.

KEEPER, John Kerby.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, - £0: 15: 8

Felons, - 0: 11: 6

Transports, taken from the Old Bailey by Mr. Akerman.

Licence, for Beer and Wine. Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } a penny loaf a day. (See Remarks.)

Felons, }

Garnish, £0: 1: 2

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, March 1, - 91 - 3

1776, March 12, - 71 - 36

1776, May 10, - 69 - 3

1777, Jan. 10, - 85 - 25

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Naish.

Duty — Sunday (constant).

Salary, £30.

SURGEON, None. (See Remarks.)

[Remarks.]

THIS Prison, built, as appears by inscription on the front, in 1670, has only a small Court-yard or Passage for all Prisoners. Many apartments: yet but two rooms for Common-side Debtors: that for the men, which is their day-room, night-room, and kitchen, with a copper &c. is dark and dirty; about thirty-five feet by

LONDON. 175

[Wood-Street Compter.]

eighteen, and sixteen feet high; far too small for the number of Prisoners; many of whom sleep in twenty-three beds which are on three stories of galleries, or broad shelves. At one of my visits there were in this room thirty-nine Debtors; seven of them had their wives and children. The room swarms with bugs. The day and night-room for Women Debtors is more lightsome: in it were only two Prisoners. Beyond it is a room ruinous, and fit for no use.

For Men Felons there are two rooms: and two for Women: one of these is a dark cell. No bedding or straw. Those who choose a bed pay a shilling a night: or else ten shillings and six-pence floorage, and three shillings and six-pence a week.

Near those four rooms are twenty-three rooms for Master's-dde Debtors.

In the Court-yard is the Chapel: and under it the Tap-room, down sixteen steps.

All the rooms aforesaid are within the inner gate; between which and the outer gate (i. e. in the Keeper's house) are more rooms for Master's-side Debtors.

The Prison is greatly out of repair: the main wall on one side, shored and propped. No Infirmary.

The Keeper pays to the Chamber of London £30 a year rent, which is repaid him for Fees of the poorest Prisoners. He also pays Window-tax £5: 1: 0.

I learned from him that in the beginning of the year 1773 his Prisoners were sickly, and eleven died. Since that time the Governors of the General Dispensary have shewn a kind attention to these poor people; and ordered their Physician, Dr. Lettsom, to

176 LONDON.

[Wood-Street Compter.]

visit them. He is esteemed by the Prisoners: and at my last visits, all were well.

The allowance of a penny loaf is from the Chamber of London. Debtors (some of whom are from the Court of Conscience) have from the Peacock-brewhouse (Messrs. Calvert and Co.) a donation of two barrels of small beer a week: and from the Sheriffs thirty-two pounds of beef on Saturday. Mr. Taylor, formerly a baker, has for some years sent them weekly a large leg and shin of beef.

There are many Legacies for Common-side Debtors, who receive them quarterly. The annual amount is £59: 2: 11.

Some years since, there came once a fortnight to common-side debtors in this prison, nine stone of beef, and fourteen quartern loaves: and the like relief to other prisons also. The charitable hand was concealed; till, the donation failing on the death of the amiable princess Caroline, it was supposed that her highness had been the generous benefactress. And upon representing to the Lady who had been Almoner to the Princess, the distress of the Prisoners, she obtained from the King a Renewal of the Charity; which was continued during his Majesty's life.

A TABLE of the FEES to be paid by the Prisoners in Wood-street Compter.

£. S. D.

For every Debtor that hath a room on the Master-side, for his or her entrance or floorage — 0: 5: 0

For his or her rent per week provided the Keeper find bed, bedding and sheets — 0: 2: 6

LONDON. 177

[Wood-Street Compter.]

£. S. D.

If two in one room, to pay weekly each of them — 0: 1: 3

If Debtor or Debtors provide their own bed bedding, &c. to pay for one or two in one room, weekly for the room — 0: 1: 3

Exclusive of the Office Fees } Each Debtor on his or her discharge — 0: 8: 0

} If on the Master-Side — 0: 8: 10

For every Debtor in the ward called the fifteen penny ward — if the Keeper provide bed bedding and one sheet — weekly — 0: 1: 3

For every Debtor on the Keeper's-Side, on his or her entrance there, to pay — 0: 10: 8

For each room — to pay weekly — 0: 2: 6

All Persons in any of the Charity Wards to pay no entrance, or rent

For every Prisoner committed for felony, misdemeanour or assault on his or her discharge, (except by proclamation at a Gaol delivery, then nothing) — 0: 12: 8

For the copy of commitment - 0: 1: 6

178 LONDON.

BRIDEWELL

IN BLACK-FRYARS.

[Remarks.]

THIS building was formerly a Palace, near St. Bridget's (St. Bride's) Well; from whence it had the name; which, after it became a Prison, was applied to other Prisons of the same sort*. It was given to the City by King Edward VI. in 1552.

That part of Bridewell which relates to my subject has wards for men and women quite separate. — The men's ward on the ground-floor is a day-room in which they beat hemp; and, down a step, their night-room. One of the upper chambers is fitting up for an Infirmary. — The women's ward is a day-room on the ground-floor, in which they beat hemp; and a night-room over it. I was told that the chamber above this is to be fitted up for an Infirmary. The sick have, hitherto, been commonly sent to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. All the Prisoners are kept within doors.

The women's rooms are large, and have opposite windows, for fresh air. Their ward, as well as the men's, has plenty of water: and there is a Hand-Ventilator on the outside, with a tube to each room of the women's ward. This is of great service, when the rooms are crowded with Prisoners, and the weather is warm.

The Prisoners are employed by a Hemp-drester, who has the

* Johnson's Dictionary,

LONDON. 179

[Bridewell.]

profit of their labour, an apartment in the Prison, and a salary of £14. I generally found them at work: they are provided for, so as to be able to perform it. The hours of work are in winter from eight to four; in summer from six to six, deducting meal-times. The Steward is allowed eight-pence a day for the maintenance of each Prisoner; and contracts to supply them as follows — On Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday, a penny loaf, ten ounces of dressed beef without bone, broth, and three pints of ten shilling beer: on Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday, a penny loaf, four ounces of cheese or some butter, a pint of milk-pottage, and three pints of ten shilling beer.

The Porter or Keeper is John Brown. Salary £80; no Fees. To the women's ward there is a Matron, Sarah Lyon, Salary £60. She takes care of the sick, both men and women; and is allowed a shilling a day for those that are put on the sick diet.

In Bridewell is a Public Chapel: the Prisoners go thither on Sunday morning (except such as are, in a manner, destitute of apparel): the men and women separated from each other, and from the rest of the congregation.

On the walls of the Hall and Court-room are hung up many Tables of very considerable Gifts and Legacies to this Hospital, in common with others: sufficient, one would think, to have made this Prison more commodious, by providing several work-rooms, and lodging-rooms, for keeping the Prisoners more separate.

In winter they have some firing. The night-rooms are supplied with straw. No other Prison in London has any straw or other bedding.

180 LONDON.

[Bridewell.]

TO this Prison were committed,

In the year - 1772 - Prisoners 1709

1773 - 777

1774, - 808

1775, - 1084

I found there in 1776, March 13 - Prisoners - 20

May 1, - 7

Dec. 3, - 24

At my last visit the Infirmaries were finished.

THE Bridewell Boys are upon a quite different Foundation, and foreign to my subject.

LONDON. 181

NEW PRISON CLERKENWELL,

GAOLER, James Elmore.

Salary, £30. (See Remarks.)

Fees, - £0: 7: 0

Transports, the Expence.

Licence, for Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, a penny loaf a day.

Garnish, - £0: 1: 4.

Number of - Felons &c.

1774, April 22, - 87

1776, March 5, - 37

1776, May 10, - 83

1776, Nov. 13, - 58

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Richards.

Duty — Sunday twice; Tuesday and Thursday Prayers.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Gibbes.

Salary, £60, for this Prison and the Bridewell.

[Remarks.]

THIS PRISON, built in 1775, is much more commodious than the former of the same name. Over the gate-way are two rooms, called Night-Charges, for Prisoners brought in the night, to be examined by a Magistrate next day. In one of them are Keeper's

182 LONDON.

[New Prison Clerkenwell.]

beds. From that outer gate you pass on to the gate of the Men's Court-yard on the right hand, and of the Women's to the left. To each you descend seven steps. In the Men's Court is a large open shed, which is their day-room. The roof too low for the depth: it has a chimney. Their night-ward, into which they are not permitted to go in the day-time, that the air in it may be cool and fresh, is a house on the other side of the yard, divided into two parts. Each part has a room on the ground-floor, a chamber, and an upper room. In one part each of these rooms is thirty feet by thirty-one: in the other part, thirty by twenty: near ten feet high: well planked all over: no chimneys. For the purpose of transmitting air, every room has in front, to the yard, two windows; and backwards three, with iron bars, and shutters; but, very properly, no glass. Barrack-beds in every room; but in each of the two chambers and in one of the lower rooms are other beds for those who pay three shillings and six-pence a week: when these beds are occupied, no Prisoners sleep on the barrack-beds in those rooms. In this Court is a lock-up room for the unruly. All the stairs are stone.

On one side of the Women's Court is their day-room; with a fire-place. Their night-rooms are — one on the ground-floor ranging with the day-room, and called the Low Ward; twenty-one feet by seventeen, and ten feet high — a chamber over it of the same size — and a passage or gallery over the day-room: on the back of it are five cabins or cupboards, each ten feet by five feet eight inches, with a barrack-bed for two prisoners. These closets will be very unwholesome; having no air but from grates over the doors into the gallery. The two larger night-rooms have windows only in front.

LONDON. 183

[New Prison Clerkenwell.]

Iron bars and flutters: no glass. The windows of both the Men's and Women's Ward are (as they should be) too high for them to look out.

The ground-floors, and the Men's Court-yard, are paved. The Women's, they told me, is to be paved also.

There is a Pump in each Court; and the New-River water is laid in: but not directly from the Main, and constantly on, as it is at the neighbouring Prison.

A chapel, almost finished; which is to be common to this Prison and the Bridewell. Men of the two different prisons to be on opposite sides below; and women in opposite galleries. There is a room above it which lowers the ceiling. This circumstance, and the chapel not being large, will endanger its being offensive.

The Tap-Room is near the outer gate. Prisoners do not come into it; but take their liquor at a wicket made for that purpose in the wall, that separates it from them. No infirmary: no bedding or straw.

A matron has £5 salary out of the Gaoler's £30. In July 1775 the Justices thought fit to raise his fees from 5s. 6d. to 7s.

A generous Benefactor (a salesman in Smithfield) often sends the Prisoners beef and bread. They have occasionally other small donations.

In the gate-way is a board on which is painted as follows.

184 LONDON.

[New Prison Clerkenwell.]

MIDDLESEX.

A TABLE OF FEES

Taken by the Keeper of New-Prison Clerkenwell.

£. S. D.

For keeping and discharging every person committed by warrant of commitment — 0: 6: 0

For turning the key at every such person's discharge — 0: 1: 0

For going with any person before a justice — 0: 1: 0

For a copy of commitment — 0: 1: 6

Prisoners brought in by constables of the night, and carried before Justices of the Peace and discharged, to pay two shillings for his or her discharge — 0: 2: 0

No spirituous liquors allowed to be brought in here.

LONDON. 185

CLERKENWELL BRIDEWELL.

KEEPER, Edward Hall.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.)

Fees, - £0: 7: 0

Transports, taken from Court by Mr. Akerman,

Licence, for Beer and Wine. Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, a penny loaf a day.

Garnish, - £0: 1: 4

Number of - Prisoners

1774, April 22, - 87

1776, March 8, - 93

1776, May 10, - 113

1776, Nov. 13, - 136

1777, Jan. 10, 108 (See Remarks.)

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Richards.

Duty — Thursday.

Salary,

SURGEON, Mr. Gibbes.

Salary, (See New Prison.)

[Remarks.]

OVER the Gate, two new rooms for Night-Charges, as at the New Prison. In the Prison men and women have separate Courtyards and Wards. The men have in their Court-yard three sheds for

186 LONDON.

[Clerkenwell Bridewell.]

day rooms: one six foot by sixteen, the other two six by ten each; full eight foot high. Their night-rooms opposite on the ground-floor, one for Fines, and one for other Offenders, are about twenty feet by fourteen each; with barrack-beds. One of them was so crowded, that some Prisoners slept in hammocks hung to the ceiling. Over these night-rooms are chambers with beds for those who pay three shillings and six-pence a week. In another part of the yard is a Hemp-shop or Work-drop: through it you pass to six little Work-shops for faulty Apprentices; dsevon feet by three and a half each: fronting these are their six night-rooms, rather larger than the shops; all on the ground-door.

In the Women's Court are three sheds or day-rooms; same size as those of the men; with a hemp-shop or work-shop. Over this, and the men's work-shop, is a long gallery or passage; on the back of which are twelve dark unwholsome night-rooms for women; nine feet by seven each, and ten and a half high: in some of them are beds for those who pay.

The Prison is out of repair. It has not been so much as white-washed for years: but in November 1776 the rooms were clean, and but one person sick; a woman who lay on the door. No straw. No Infirmary. I saw but few at work: sometimes none at all. A Matron has £5 a year.

The Keeper pays Window-tax; and £2 a year for New-River water; which is directly from the Main, and always on. Besides this they have good water at a pump in each court-yard.

The Keeper had a Salary of £50; but in July 1775 Justices took off the Salary, and augmented the Fees from five shillings and

LONDON. 187

[Clerkenwell Bridewell.]

six-pence to seven shillings. At the same time, in lieu of Fees from Acquitted Prisoners, which were cancelled by the late Act, they paid the Keeper at the rate of £20 a year from the time when that Act took place.

To this Bridewell, among Criminals, are committed Debtors from the Court of Conscience: they are discharged after forty days. Of these, at my last visit, there were three.

Of the one hundred and eight in January last, above thirty were Fines, that is, Criminals committed for a term of years, to five or six. Some of these, and of the others, were sick. They complained to me of sore feet, which the Turnkey said were quite black. The sick were for the most part women of the poorest sort; not able to pay for beds. There were, in the whole, near as many women-prisoners as men.

Of late they have made the men and women change wards and courts; those in which the women were before being thought strongest.

[Middlesex.]

AT the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace — holden in and for the County of Middlesex at Hicks's Hall — (by Adjournment) — 13th of July — 15th year — of GEORGE III. &c.

188. LONDON.

[Clerkenwell Bridewell.]

A TABLE of FEES to be taken at the House of Correction at Clerkenwell.

£. S. D.

For keeping and discharging every Prisoner committed by Warrant, and turning the key at every such Prisoner's discharge — 0: 7: 0

For a Copy of every Commitment — 0: 1: 4

For going with any Prisoner before a Justice — 0: 1: 0

Prisoners brought in by Constables of the Night and carried before a Justice — 0: 4: 0

By the Court,

Butler.

LONDON. 189

WHITE CHAPEL PRISON,

FOR DEBTORS.

[Remarks.]

THIS is a Prison for the Liberty and Manor of Stepney; and Hackney. The former includes, by a printed List which I have, towns, parishes, villages, streets, lanes, &c. to the number of forty-six; and was granted by King Edward VI. to Lord Wentworth, and his Heirs for ever.

In it are confined those whose debts are above £2, and under £5. The Master's-side Prisoners have four sizeable chambers, fronting the road; i.e. two on each story. They pay two shillings and six-pence a week; and lie two in a bed; two beds in a room. The Common-side Debtors are in two long rooms in the Court-yard, near the Tap-room. Men in one room, women in the other: the Courtyard in common. They hang out a begging-box from a little closet in the front of the House; and attend it in turn. It brings them only a few pence a day: and of this pittance none partake but those who at Entrance have paid the Keeper two shillings and six-pence; and treated the Prisoners with half a gallon of beer. The last time I was there no more than three had purchased this privilege.

The Prison is out of repair. The Keeper, George Garred, is an Officer: he pays Rent £20 to the Lady of the Manor; and keeps the Tap: Window-tax above £3. Fees £0: 8: 1. No Table: but in November last I saw a paper hung up, on which was written as follows:

190 LONDON.

[Whitechapel.]

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Keeper of this Prison.

£. S. D.

For the discharge of every person upon any civil action, process or execution — 0: 8: 1

For every person who chooses to lay on the Master-side, for the first night — 0: 2: 0

For every person who chooses to lie on the Master-side after the first night to pay every week — 0: 2: 6

George Garred Keeper 10th August 1776.

At the same time I saw another paper intitled Rules and Orders to be observed in this Prison. It is dated Aug. 6. 1776. The first Rule is "That every person who comes into this Prison as a Prisoner, shall pay for his Garnish two shillings and ten-pence halfpenny.”

The Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors are hung up.

At my first visit there were on the Common-side two Prisoners in hammocks, sick and very poor. — No Chaplain. A compassionate Man, who is not a regular Clergyman, sometimes preaches to them on Sunday; and gives them some small relief.

Lady Townsend sends a Guinea twice a year, which her Servant distributes equally among the Prisoners.

As Debtors here are generally very poor, I was surprized to see once ten or twelve noisy men at skittles; but the Turnkey said they were only visitants. I found they were admitted here as at another public house. No Prisoners were at play with them.

1774, April 27, Prisoners 25

1776, May 7, - 23

1776, Nov. 13, - 20

1777, Jan. 8, - 27

LONDON. 191

TOWER HAMLETS GAOL,

IN WELL-CLOSE SQUARE.

[Remarks.]

THIS Prison is at a Public-house, kept by an honest Swede, who is Gaoler. There is a Court-room in the House for the Tower Hamlets. The Prison-yard is one hundred and sixteen feet by eighteen, latticed over head. At one end, are two large rooms; of which little use has been made since the last war; when French Prisoners were kept in them. The present Prison-rooms are towards the other end of the yard: on the ground-floor is a day-room or closet about five feet and a half by three and a half, with a chimney. Up stairs are three night-rooms. The Prison is out of repair, and not secure. Keeper no salary. Fees, £0: 9: 1. No Table. Allowance, a penny a day. No straw.

1774, April 29, Prisoner 1

1776, March 9, - 0

1776, May 17, - 1

St. CATHARINE'S PRISON,

FOR DEBTORS.

[Remarks.]

THIS Prison, rebuilt about seven years ago, is a small House of two stories; two rooms on a floor. In April 1774 there was a Keeper, but no Prisoners. I have since that called two or three times, and always found the House uninhabited.

192 WESTMINSTER.

THE SAVOY.

[Remarks.]

THIS Prison for Soldiers, has two rooms called the Guard Rooms; because in them are confined Offenders who are of the King's Guards. The remainder of the building near the gate is the Keeper's House. On the opposite side of the yard, is a large room down five steps, the Hall: the rooms over it useless. On the left-hand side of the yard is another hall, not so large: at each end of it is a room with barrack bedsteads and beds; both rooms very close and unhealthy. Over them are other barrack-rooms, somewhat more airy: one of them. No. 4, is tolerable, and has opposite windows. There is, besides, the Black Hole, the Condemn'd Hold, the Cock Pit, and several other parts of this irregular building, which I pass over.

March 15, 1776, there were 119 Prisoners; of whom 49 were Transports. I saw many sick and dying. The Gaol was so infected by them, that the Distemper has been caught there by many since: and if it be not thoroughly purified, it will destroy many more. — The whole is indeed much out of repair hardly any part of it secure.

May 25, Prisoners 37. Many of them sick of the Gaol-Distemper, in the rooms where I saw the sick and dying in March. — Keeper, Captain Jackson: Salary, £50; no Fees: he pays Land-tax, Window-tax, Water, &c.

WESTMINSTER. 193

TOTHILL-FIELDS BRIDEWELL.

KEEPER, George Smith.

Salary, £50, paying the Widow of the former Keeper £20.

Fees, 0: 5: 2.

Transports, taken by Mr. Akerman.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, a penny loaf, and a penny a day each.

Garnish, £0: 1: 4.

Number of Prisoners.

1774, April 22, - 38

1775, March 4, - 109

1776, March 6, - 86

1776, May 3, - 75

1777, Jan. 8, - 110

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Glover.

Salary, £20.

[Remarks.]

THIS Prison has — For men, two day-rooms and three night-rooms — For faulty apprentices, five small rooms — For women, a day-room, and four night-rooms. All the night-rooms have barrack-beds. They are constantly walked every day; and are quite wholesome. The Prisoners wash their hands and faces every morning before they come for their allowance. No straw. No Infirmary.

194 WESTMINSTER.

[Tothill-Fields Bridewell.]

A little room used as a Surgery. A Chapel, in which Mr. Smith reads a Chapter, and part of the Prayer-Book every morning.

The women should have another day-room: and one of the day-rooms for men should be enlarged. There would then be less quarreling among them: and Prisoners who are now idle might be employed. The Court-yards adjacent might also be enlarged. All the rooms for women and their court-yard, and the men's night-rooms would be more airy if the Garden Pales were set farther off. I know Mr. Smith would with pleasure see part of his Garden sacrificed to these Improvements. He pays Window-tax £2: 4: 0, and Water £2. Over the Gate is a paper with this inscription: "No person admitted into this Prison on a Sunday after nine o'clock in the morning until five in the evening.”

In my last visit, there were among the Felons, two Debtors from the Court of Conscience: one for £0: 17: 6, the other for £0: 14: 1.

FEES allowed for the Governor of Tothill-fields-Bridewell, as by Order of Court January Sessions 1772.

£. S. D.

For Commitment and Discharge of a Prisoner by Warrant — 0: 4: 2

For the Turnkey — 0: 1: 0

Copy of Commitment — 0: 1: 4

For a Night's Charge — 0: 1: 0

Signed in open Court by

James Fielding

George S. Bradshaw

George Ried

Aaron Lamb

WESTMINSTER. 195

WESTMINSTER GATE-HOUSE.

[Remarks.]

THIS Prison, the property of the Dean and Chapter, is over two gate-ways. It has three floors, five rooms on each; in which have been sometimes near a hundred Prisoners: but it is

now so ruinous, that none are sent to it. All are committed to Tothill-fields Bridewell, which, in consequence, is overcrowded; and besides (as was there noted) Debtors, even from the Court of Conscience, are confined at night, (as well as in the day-time) with Criminals: which is contrary to the statute of 22d and 23d Car. II.

I have from the very old Keeper the particulars of Rent, Fees &c. but as the Prison is now useless, I will not transcribe them.

N. B. Since writing the above the Gate-House is taken down.

196 SOUTHWARK.

THE KING'S BENCH PRISON,

FOR DEBTORS.

MARSHAL, Thomas Thomas, Esq.

Deputy Marshal, Thomas Marson, Esq.

Salary,

Fees, - See Table.

Licence, for Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0: 2: 0.

Number - In the House. - In the Rules.

1774, April 26, - 324 - 100

1776, Jan. 28, - 364 - 80

1776, May - (See Remarks.)

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Evans.

Duty — Sunday once; the Sacrament once a month.

Salary, £0: 2: 0 on every Commitment.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS PRISON is part Old Buildings, part New.

The Old Buildings are — A Coffee-room just within the Gate: — and a Street called King-street. On the right hand is the Tap-house; and four houses for Prisoners: each consisting of a ground-floor, and two

SOUTHWARK. 197

[King's Bench.]

floors of chambers; four rooms on each floor; near ten feet square, and seven high. On the left hand side of the street is the Chapel; and six houses for Prisoners; of equal depth with the former houses: but the back-rooms have not, as the former have, communication with the fore-rooms. At the hither end of the fore-rooms, on the ground-floor, is a common Kitchen, much too small. The Cook, a Prisoner, has the room over it. These houses also have ground-rooms, and two floors of chambers. All the rooms fronting King-street, and the whole of the houses on the other side the way, are for Master-side Debtors; who pay for each room unfurnished a shilling a week.

The back part of the left hand Row is the Common-side: the-doors in the back front. The first room on the ground-floor they call their Court-room. The two houses at the farther end have six rooms each, for Crown-Debtors and Fines; and are called Crown-Court. The rest of this range on all the three floors is for Common-side Debtors.

At the farther end of King-street, in a small Court inclosed from the rest of the yard, is a building called the State-house; consisting of ground-floors, and two floors of chambers; four sizeable rooms on each floor; total twelve. A Debtor who chooses to be here, pays the Marshal eight to ten guineas for his whole time; besides a shilling a week, like other Master-side Debtors.

All these old buildings are out of repair.

The New Buildings are — First, a house at the gate for the Turnkey. The chambers are very convenient; and let at present to a Prisoner who pays a very high rent. — But the principal new building is at the farther end of the yard. The two parts of it form a right

198 SOUTHWARK.

[King's Bench.]

angle. One part is four houses, with four ground rooms to each; and the same number of chambers on each of the three floors above: total sixty-four. The rooms are about thirteen feet by eleven, and about eight feet high. The other part, (the wing) is built as the Fleet Prison; but more airy and commodious. It has the same number of floors as the other part. On each floor is a passage seven feet and a half wide, and seventy-three and a half long: rooms on each side the passage, eleven on each floor, total forty-four; each room thirteen feet and a half by nine and a half, about eight feet high.

The Prison is well supplied with water. Among the late improvements, of 108 new rooms, and a spacious yard, it is pity they did not build an Infirmary. The Prisoners are numerous. At more than one of my visits (which I repeated to this as well as many other Prisons much oftener than the times when I took the numbers) some had the Small-Pox. It was so crowded this last summer, that a Prisoner paid five shillings a week for half a bed, and many lay in the Chapel. In May 1776 the number of Prisoners within the walls was 395; and by an accurate list which I procured, their wives (including a few only called so) were 279, children 725, total 1004: about two thirds of these were in the Prison.

This Prison is visited at Michaelmass term, as the Act* directs; yet at my first visit there was a Wine-Club, and a Beer-Club; and one can scarcely ever enter the walls without seeing parties at skittles, missisippi, portobello, tennis, fives &c.

The following Tables of Rules and Orders for the government of this Prison are hung up (as required by the Preamble) for common inspection. I presume to give an abridgment of them.

* 32d George II.

SOUTHWARK. 199

[King's Bench.]

RULES and ORDERS for the better Government &c,

Made and Signed the 25th of November 1729.

1. THE stocks to be kept up for punishment of blasphemers, swearers, riotous &c.

2. Against illegal methods of confinement. None to be confined in an unusual place or manner, unless for attempting to escape. And such may appeal to the Court, or a Judge.

3. Marshal not to remove any to the Fleet by writ of Habeas Corpus.

4. Marshal not to remove any one from the Common-side and it's benefits without three days notice: during which time, the Prisoner may appeal to a Judge.

5. Coroner's Inquest upon the dead.

6. Against Garnish and partial distribution of Dividends.

7. Prisoners to send out for necessaries; and to bring in their own bedding &c.

8. Table of Fees, These Rules, and a List of Charities to be hung up in a public room.

9. Marshal and Servants to behave with the utmost tenderness.

10. Turnkey always to attend at the door.

11. No Servants to partake of, or even distribute the Charity.

12. Chapel to be kept in repair. Chaplain duly to perform.

13. The abusive to the stocks.

14. Dining-room to be kept in repair for devotion, or conversation: with a fire. Two rooms for the sick.

15. Those who make oath before &c. that they have not £5 &c. to be admitted to the Charities, Offices in the Prison &c.

200 SOUTHWARK.

[King's Bench.]

16. No Person committed for any criminal matter to vote for Steward &c. or to partake of any charity but the Baskets.

17. Lodging in a cabin of any ward, gratis.

18. Any Prisoner may be chosen Assistant and enjoy the benefits of that station.

19. The Seal of the Common-side to be kept by the Master of King's Bench Office; and not put to any deed without the approbation of Marshal, Steward, and Assistants.

20. One supersedable action may be superseded with Common-side money: more than one, not without application to the Court, or a Judge. No Judge's Clerk to take a Fee on the occasion.

21. The sick to be taken care of by the Steward and Assistants: who are to be reimbursed out of the first County-money.

22. Debts contracted by the Steward and Assistants with the Marshal's, and Master's consent, for support of the poor, to be paid out of the next Dividend.

23. Steward and Assistants to have no pay for common business, or adjusting differences.

24. Prisoners entered after the 1st day of Easter-term, to have but one Quarter of the Midsummer Dividend.

25. All money brought in by the Basket-men, or brought in at Christmas, Easter and Whitsuntide, to be divided immediately after paying the Basket-men for their trouble.

26. If the Marshal advance money for a Supersedeas, he is to be reimbursed out of the next County-money.

27. Common-side Prisoners may elect an annual Steward; who is not to be deposed, but on application to the Court or a Judge. No Prisoner in the Rules may vote.

28. The Steward to enter in Books the Table of Fees, these Rules,

SOUTHWARK. 201

[King's Bench.]

and a list of the charities. All, together with his accounts, for inspection of the Prisoners.

29. A prisoner wronged by the Steward and Assistants, on applying to the Court or a Judge, shall be paid his damages out of the next Dividend of the Steward and Assistants: if he complain unjustly, he shall make satisfaction from his own next Dividend.

30. If the Steward or Assistants embezzle the money, Successors may call them to account, and stop their Dividends of the Grate-money &c. for reparation of the injury.

31. These Orders to be read publicly every third Monday.

32. Marshal, Servants, and Prisoners to observe these Rules under pain of the utmost punishment of Law.

33. No Clerk or Servant of a Judge to take any Fee on occasion of a Petition founded on these Orders.

R. RAYMOND

JA. REYNOLDS

E. PROBYN.

THE preceding Rules fill one side of a large sheet of paper, on which they are printed. Another sheet has what follows, viz.

FURTHER RULES and ORDERS for the Government &c. Made and Signed the 10th day of May 1759.

1. NO Person to bring any Weapon.

2. Those on the Master's-side who demand Garnish, to be turned to Common-side for a time, not longer than a Month. Those on

202 SOUTHWARK.

[King's Bench.]

the Common-side are for the like offence to be excluded, not longer than a fortnight, from all profits except share of the Baskets.

3. Doors of the great Garden to be shut at dark: doors of the Wards at nine.

4. The Chambers at disposal of the Marshal &c.

5. If a Master-side Prisoner neglect for a Month to pay his Chamber-Rent; he may be turned over to the Common-side till he pays. His goods to be delivered to him, by a witnessed inventory. If discharged by the Plaintiff, he may yet be detained for Fees, and a Month's Chamber-rent.

6. None to sell in the Prison Victuals or Drink without consent of Marshal. A prisoner thus offending may be turned over to the Common-side for a Month. Marshal to take care that those who sell keep good order &c.

7. Confirms the 14th Rule preceding i.e. The great Room for exercise and the two Rooms for the sick.

8. Prisoners turned to Common-side for offending, or non-payment, to have no profit but Share of the Baskets; to bear no office j nor vote for Officers.

9. These Rules to be fixed in the most public Places, for inspection.

Signed, MANSFIELD, T. DENNISON, M. FORSTER, E. WILMOT.

A further RULE and ORDER &c. made 19th May 1760.

THOSE who attempt or assist an escape — who sell or promote the sale of Victuals or Liquors without leave of the Marshal — who assault another — who blaspheme the Name of God, swear or make a riot, may be sent By the Marshal to any one of the following Prisons in Southwark viz The County-Gaol for Surry, the Bridewell for that

SOUTHWARK. 203

[King's Bench.]

County, or to the Marshalsea: and there confined for the first Offence not exceeding one Month; for a second Offence not exceeding three Months. This Rule to be hung up.

Signed, MANSFIELD, T. DENNISON, M. FORSTER, E. WILMOT.

On the same Sheet is

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Marshal of the King's Bench Prison, in the County of Surry, for any Prisoner or Prisoner's Commitment, or coming in Gaol, or Chamber-Rent there, or discharge from thence in any civil action. Settled and established the 16th. Day of June in the 33d Year of the Reign of his Majesty King GEORGE the Second, and in the Year of our Lord 1760, pursuant to an Act for the Relief of Debtors with respect to the Imprisonment of their Persons, viz.

£. S. D.

First, To the Marshal for every Prisoner committed on any civil action — 0: 4: 8

2d. To the Turnkey on the Master's-side — 0: 1: 6

3d. To the Marshal on the discharge of every such Prisoner — 0: 7: 4

4th. To the Deputy Marshal upon the discharge of one or more actions, executions, or other charge, and no further fee though there be never so many actions — 0: 4: 0

5th. To the Clerk of the Papers for the first; action upon the discharge — 0: 3: 0

6th. To the Clerk of the Papers for every action, execution, or other charge to be paid on the discharge — 0: 0: 4

7th. To the Deputy Marshal upon a commitment of a Prisoner in court, or at a Judge's chambers, in any civil action, if carried to the King's Bench Prison — 0: 1: 0

204 SOUTHWARK.

[King's Bench.]

£. S. D.

8th. To the Clerk of the Papers for the same — 0: 1: 0

9th. To the said Deputy Marshal for a surrender in discharge of bail, be there never so many actions — 0: 1: 0

10th. To the Clerk of the Papers for each action upon such surrender — 0: 0: 6

11th. To each of the four Tipstaffs, 2s. 6d. for each Prisoner's Commitment by the Court, and carried to the King's Bench Prison, in the whole — 0: 10: 0

12th. To the Tipstaff that carries any Prisoner committed at a Judge's chambers to the said Prison — 0: 6: 0

13th. To the Marshal for the use of chamber, bed, bedding and sheets for each Prisoner, if provided by the Gaoler at the Prisoner's request, for the first night, in the Common-side of the said Prison — 0: 0: 6

14th. For the like use every night the Prisoner remains in} custody after the first — — 0: 0: 1

15th. And if two lie in one bed, 1d each — 0: 0: 2

16th. For the like use of every Prisoner that goes on the Master's-side, for the first night — 0: 0: 6

17th. For the like use every night after the first — 0: 0: 3

18th. And if two lie in a bed, 2d each — 0: 0: 4

19th, And if the Prisoner finds his own bed, bedding and sheets (which the Marshal is in no sort to hinder him of) then he shall pay for chamber-rent to the Marshal, per week — 0: 1: 0

No other Fee for the use of chamber, bed, bedding and sheets, or upon the commitment or discharge of any Prisoner on any civil action.

IT

Thomas Howard,

Anthony Thomas Abdy,

William Hammond.

Mansfield,

T. Parker.

SOUTHWARK. 205

MARSHALSEA PRISON.

DEPUTY MARSHAL; Thomas Marson, Esq.

Substitute, Thomas Phillips.

Salary,

Fees, £0: 10: 10

Licence, for Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0: 3: 6. It is called Ward-dues for Coals &c.

Number

1774, March 16, Prisoners 167

1775, March 6, - 175

1776, March 12, - 194

1776, May 13, - 234

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Cockane.

Duty — Sunday

Salary, 1s. from each Prisoner on discharge. See Table of Fees.

SURGEONS, Messrs. Stapleton and Walshman.

Salary, 1s. from each Prisoner on discharge. See Table of Fees.

[Remarks.]

TO this Prison of the Court of the Marshalsea, and of the King's Palace-Court of Westminster, are brought Debtors arrested for the lowest sums, any where within twelve miles of the Palace, except in the city of London: and also persons committed for piracy.

The Deputy Marshal, under whose particular custody this Prison is, has his appointment from the Knight Marshal of the King's household

206 SOUTHWARK.

[Marshalsea.]

for the time being. The great abuses practised by this Officer were reported to Parliament by the Gaol Committee in 1729.

This Prison is an old irregular building (rather several buildings) in a spacious yard. There are, in the whole, near sixty rooms; and yet only six of them now left for Common-side Debtors. Of the other rooms, — Five are let to a man who is not a prisoner: in one of them he keeps a chandler's shop; in two he lives with his family: the other two he lets to Prisoners. Four rooms, the Oaks, are for women. They are too few for the number; and the more modest women complain of the bad company, in which they are confined. There are above forty rooms for men on the Master's-side, in which are about sixty beds; yet many Prisoners have no beds nor any place to sleep in but the Chapel, and the Tap-room.

The Prison is too small and greatly out of repair. Little regard is shewn to the late Act for white-washing and cleaning the rooms. No Infirmary. The yard is well supplied with water. In it the Prisoners play at rackets, missisippi &c; and in a little back court, the Park, at skittles.

The Tap is let to a Prisoner in the Rules of the King's Bench Prison: this Prison being just within those Rules. I was credibly informed, that one sunday in the summer 1775, about 600 pots of beer were brought in from a public house in the neighbourhood, (Ashmore's) the Prisoners not then liking the Tapster's beer.

In March 1775, when the number of Prisoners was 175; there were with them in this incommodious Prison wives and children 46.

Mr. Allnutt who was many years since a prisoner here; had, during his confinement, a large estate bequeathed to him. He learned sympathy by his sufferings: and left £100 a year to release poor Debtors from hence. Many are cleared by it every year.

SOUTHWARK. 207

[Marshalsea.]

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of the Marshalsea Prison — on any Civil Action — settled — the 17th day of May 1765 Pursuant to an Act for relief of Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

To the Knight Marshal upon the discharge of every Prisoner charged with one or more actions — 0: 1: 8

To the Keeper for his care and safe custody of every Prisoner upon the discharge of such Prisoner on the first action — 0: 4: 8

To the Keeper upon the discharge of such Prisoner charged with one or more actions — 0: 3: 8

To the Surgeon or Apothecary on the discharge of every Prisoner charged with one or more actions — 0: 1: 0

To the Chaplain on the like discharge — 0: 1: 0

To the Turnkey upon the discharge of every Prisoner on the first action — 0: 1: 6

To the Turnkey upon the discharge of such Prisoner charged with one or more actions after the first — 0: 1: 0

To the Clerk for entering the discharge of a Prisoner on one or more actions — 0: 1: 0

To the Keeper for the use of bed, bedding and sheets for every Prisoner if found by the Gaoler at the Prisoner's request, for the first night on the Master-side of the said Prison — 0: 0: 6

And every night after the first night — 0: 0: 3

And if two lie in a bed 2d. each — 0: 0: 4

NO other Fees for the use of chamber, bed, bedding, or upon the discharge or commitment of any Prisoner in any Civil Action.

W. Richardson

Elliot Bishop

Leond. Howard,

Mansfield

C. Pratt

T. Parker.

208 SOUTHWARK.

BOROUGH COMPTER.

GAOLER, Jeremiah Beavis.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, - £0: 7: 0

Felons, - 0: 11: 4

Transports, - 0: 10: 6 from the Contractor.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } a penny a day each. (See Remarks.)

Felons, }

Garnish, £0: 2: 8 Master's-side.

0: 1: 4 Common-side.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, May 4, - 37 - 4

1776, March 11, - 10 - 3

1776, May 2, - 18 - 2

1776, Nov. 13, - 15 - 1

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS Prison, in Tooley-street, for the Borough of Southwark, which contains four parishes and a part of a fifth, has, for Master's-side Debtors — seven rooms. — For Common-side Debtors, a Room on the ground door, in which Felons &c. are with them night and day; a long room up stairs, the Rookery; and a room over it, useless, because not secure. — The Women are in the Stone Kitchen, now divided

SOUTHWARK. 209

[Borough Compter.]

into two rooms. Three of the Common-side rooms have barrack beds. Among the Debtors are many poor creatures from the Court of Conscience who lie there till their debts are paid. — There is a small court-yard; and a Chapel, but no Chaplain is appointed.

The whole Prison is much out of repair, and ruinous. No Infirmary. No bedding or straw. The Keeper, an officer, pays Window-tax £2: 15: 0 and Land-tax £1: 10: 0. He is put in by the High Bailiff, whose office is in the disposal of the Court of Aldermen. — An inscription over the Gate dated 1716 calls it the Borough Court: but the Courts are now held at St. Margaret's Hill.

The Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors are hung up.

Debtors have sixty penny loaves, once in eight weeks, from a Legacy of Eleanor Gwynn. No other Bequest.

[Southwark.]

AT the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace of our Sovereign Lord the King holden for the Town and Borough of Southwark at the Court-House on St. Margaret's Hill — on Friday the 8th Day of January in the 21st Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord GEORGE the Second before Sir Robert Ladbroke Knt. Mayor — John Stracey Esqr. Recorder — and others, &c. &c.

It being represented to this Court that the Fees of the Gaoler or Keeper of the Borough-Compter in regard to the Prisoners charged therein with any criminal matter remain yet unsettled, for want whereof divers impositions may accrue to the poor Prisoners therein,

210 SOUTHWARK.

[Borough Compter.]

For settling and establishing the same It is ordered that the Keeper or Gaoler of the said Prison shall and may take of every Prisoner so charged as aforesaid the following Fees and no more.

That is to say

£. S. D.

For the admission of every Prisoner for Felony Trespass Assault or other Misdemeanours — 0: 11: 4

For every night's lodging — 0: 0: 6

To the Turnkey for the dismission of every such Prisoner — 0: 0: 6

For every Prisoner brought by a Peace Officer for safe custody untill hearing can be had before a Magistrate 0: 2: 0

By the Court

Man.

N. B. Two other Prisons in Southwark, viz. The New Gaol in the Borough, and the Bridewell in St. George's Fields, belong to the County of Surry.

Home Circuit. HERTFORDSHIRE. 211

COUNTY GAOL at HERTFORD.

GAOLER, Cornelius Willson.

Salary, none. £39: 6: 10 to supply the Felons with Bread, as below.

Fees, Debtors, ) 0 : 15 : 4.

Fees, Felons, ) 0 : 15 : 4.

Transports, £1: 1: 0 each to London.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Allowance, Felons, a pound of bread a day farmed by the Gaoler.

Garnish, £0: 4: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Dec. 9, - 3 - 19

1774, Dec. 14, - 2 - 14

1776, Feb. 14, - 16 - 16

1776, Nov. 22, - 6 - 12

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Scott. Now Rev. Mr. Moore.

Duty — Sunday; and one other day not fixed.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Cutler.

Salary, £10.

[Remarks.]

THIS Gaol is in the middle of the town. In front are two small day-rooms, for Felons, in which they are always locked up: no fire-place. — Their dungeons or night-rooms are, one down eighteen

212 HERTFORDSHIRE. Home Circuit.

steps, the other nineteen. Over their day-rooms, is a large lumber-room; and adjoining to it a lodging-room for Women-felons. Backward is a small Court-yard for Debtors, and Women-felons. On each side of it are two rooms on the ground-floor, and two chambers for Debtors. No Chapel. No Infirmary.

In the interval of two of my visits the Gaol-Fever prevailed, and carried off seven or eight Prisoners, and two Turnkeys. The Felons were on that occasion removed to the Bridewell. At my last visit four were sick.

This Gaol could not have been made healthy and convenient. There is a new one building just out of the town. It has no dungeon; and is more spacious and convenient than the old one.

[Hertfordshire, to wit.]

AT the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace of our Sovereign — holden at — Hertford on Monday — the 12th day of January in the first year of — our Sovereign Lord George III. by the grace of God — and in the year of our Lord 1761 before Sir Richard Chase Knt Ralph Freeman Doctor in Divinity, Richd Warren, James Gordon, Wm Janssen and Wm Plumer the younger, Esqrs, and others, &c.

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Gaoler — settled — pursuant to an Act — made in the 32d year of — K. George II.

£. S. D.

For the chamber-rent, bed and bedding of each Debtor per night provided that no more than two be put into one bed nor more than two beds in one room — 0: 0: 4

Home Circuit. HERTFORDSHIRE. 213

£. S. D.

For the chamber-rent, bed and bedding of each Prisoner upon criminal process per week provided that no more than two be put into one bed; nor more than two beds in the same room — 0: 3: 6

For the Turnkey's Fees into Gaol — 0: 1: 0

For the Turnkey's Fees out of Gaol — 0: 1: 0

For the Gaoler's Fees upon each Prisoner discharged — 0: 13: 4

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

HERTFORD. This is also the Town Gaol. Two small rooms to the street, the Compter: one behind them, the Middle Ward and one beyond that, the Lower Ward. There is also a dungeon for men down seven steps: a yard, and pump; but Prisoners are always locked up within doors. I saw none at work. The County Gaoler is Keeper, and has £24 a year to supply each Prisoner daily with a pound of bread. Fees £0 : 4 : 6.

1774, Dec. 14, Prisoners 4

1776, Feb. 14, 7

1776, Nov. 22, 4

HITCHIN. A room for men; and-over it two rooms for women, who go up to them by a ladder. No chimney in any of the rooms: no straw: no yard: no water. Keeper's Salary £24: No Fees.

1776, Feb. 14, Prisoners 2.

214 HERTFORDSHIRE. Home Circuit.

BERKHAMSTED. A work-room for men, and another for women. A dungeon down nine steps, earth-floor, very damp, no window. — No straw: no court-yard: no water. Keeper's Salary £20: no Fees: he has the profit of the Prisoners work. Allowance a pound of bread a day.

1776, Nov. 2. No Prisoners.

At St. ALBAN'S are,

THE BOROUGH GAOL. Debtors have the use of the Town Hall in the day-time: their lodging-room joins to it. Felons have two day-rooms, and two close offensive night-rooms. Their allowance a pound of bread a day. No straw: no court: no water. The Keeper's Salary £3: Fees £0: 13: 4, no Table. Licence for Beer. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up.

1776, March 1, Prisoners, none.

1776, Nov. 3, Debtors 2. Felons &c. 2.

LIBERTY GAOL, for twenty-two Parishes, is the property of Lord Salisbury. For Debtors, two spacious day-rooms, and three lodging-rooms. — For Felons, three strong rooms. No court-yard: no water. Keeper, same as of the Borough Gaol: Salary £16: Fees £0: 13: 4, no Table.

1776, March 1, No Prisoners.

1776, Nov. 3, Debtor 1.

Home Circuit. HERTFORDSHIRE 215

THE BRIDEWELL for the Liberty, and for the Borough, joins to the Liberty Gaol. One large work-room; and two lodging-rooms: all up stairs, and airy. No court: no water: no allowance: no straw. Prisoners have their earnings. Keeper's Salary for the Liberty £28; for the Borough £2: no Fees.

1776, March 1, Prisoners 2.

1776, Nov. 2, - None.

216 ESSEX. Home Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at CHELMSFORD.

GAOLER, Susanna Taylor.

Salary, none.

Fees. Debtors, } £0 : 15 : 4.

Felons, }

Transports, to London or Gravesend, £1 : 5 : 0 for each, if not more than seven: for each above seven £1 : 1 : 0.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } a pound and half of bread and a quart of small beer. (See Remarks.)

Felons, }

Garnish, Debtors, £0 : 4 : 6.

Felons, 0 : 3 : 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 4, - 30 - 30

1774, Dec. 6, - 13 - 31

1775, Oct. 19, - 19 - 14

1776, Nov. 20, - 11 - 7

CHAPLAIN

Duty — Sunday, Monday, Wednesday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Griffinhooft.

Salary, £25, for Felons, and the Bridewell Prisoners.

Home Circuit. ESSEX. 217

CHELMSFORD.

[Remarks.]

A CLOSE Prison, frequently infected with the Gaol-Distemper. Inquiring in October 1775, for the Head-Turnkey, I was told he died of it.

In the Tap-room there hung a Paper on which, among other things, was written ”Prisoners to pay Garnish or run the Gauntlet.”

Debtors have a bushel of coals a day from about 12th November to Lady Day: and £5: 0: 0 a year by a legacy of Elizabeth Herris from Lands in Brentwood, paid by the Rector or Minister of the parish of Chelmsford on the 24th of December. By a Memorial hung up in the Tap-room it appears the Bequest was acknowledged by the Testatrix 14th June 1746. — It was generous in the Justices to grant Debtors the same allowance as Felons; and very judicious to fix that allowance to a certain weight.

It gave me pain to be informed, that there had been no Divine Service for above a year past, except to condemned Criminals.

There is a new Gaol, which exceeds the old one in strength &c. almost as much as in splendor. The County, to their honour, have spared no cost. The Magistrates cannot but know the plan. The Prison is nearly finished. It can therefore be of no service to offer any remarks upon this stately fabrick.

218 ESSEX. Home Circuit.

TABLE OF FEES.

Essex.

AT General Quarter Sessions &c. — a Table of Fees settled — to be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol — pursuant to an Act — made in the second year of — K. George II. viz.

£. S. D.

For the Chamber Rent bed and bedding of each Debtor-provided that no more than two be put into one bed, nor more than two beds in the same room — 0: 0: 4

For the Chamber Rent bed and bedding of each Prisoner. upon criminal process per week provided that no more than two be put into one bed nor more than two beds in one room — 0: 3: 6

For the Turnkey's Fee into Gaol — 0: 1: 0

For the Turnkey's Fee out of Gaol — 0: 1: 0

For the Gaoler's Fee upon each 's discharge — 0: 13: 4

Reviewed and confirmed by us the Justices of Assize this 19th Day of July 1729

R: EYRE

LAW: CARTER.

Tho Bramston

Tho Walford

John Cheveley.

Signed by us Justices of Peace of and for the said County this 19th day of July Anno Dom. 1729.

Robt Abdy

Henry Maynard

Benj Moyer.

Home Circuit. ESSEX. 219

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

CHELMSFORD. Built 1766. On the ground-floor a large work-room, a kitchen, and a lodging-room for men: over them rooms of the same size for women: two rooms for the sick. Court-yard small, and not secure: Prisoners always kept within doors, and the rooms offensive, although the water is laid in Mr. Ford (the Keeper) told me at one of my visits that many had been ill of the Gaol-Fever, brought from the County Gaol. His Salary £30: Under Keeper's £16: no Fees. Prisoners allowance three-pence a day; for which they have a pound and half of bread, and a quart of small beer; and three halfpence a day further allowance to each sick Prisoner. Coals and straw £5 a year each.

1774, Dec. 6, Prisoners 18,

1775, Oct. 19, - 15,

1776, Nov. 20, - 21.

COLCHESTER. The Castle was formerly the County Gaol. That part of it which is now the Bridewell, has — first, the room for women, with a fire-place: on one side a room for men, with a window: on another side two rooms for men, at a light angle with the former: a window in the farthermost. The partitions are iron grated for light and air, from the window

220 ESSEX. Home Circuit.

[Bridewells.]

at each end of the right angle. — Court-yard little used by Prisoners. No water: no employment: allowance threepence a day: straw £2 a year. Keeper's Salary £30: no fees.

1774, Feb. 14, - Prisoner 1,

1776, Nov. 19, - 3.

At COLCHESTER is also the

TOWN GAOL and BRIDEWELL. A room for Debtors. A strong ward for men: another for women. Court-yard not secure: no water: no straw. Allowance to Criminals three-pence a day. Keeper's Salary £8: Fees £0: 2: 6. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

Debtors. - Felons &c.

1776, Nov. 19, - 2, - 2.

NEWPORT. Built in 1775. The front is elegant, yet plain: in it are the Keeper's apartments; and a room for the Justices. Behind is the men's court; in the middle of which is a pump. On the farther side, a large work-room on the ground-floor, and a smaller work-room over it: so that too many need not work together: a fire-place in each of them. There is a lodging-room even with the upper work-room. On the left side of the court are two lodging-rooms on the ground-floor, and two above. In all these lodging-rooms are boarded bed-steads. The Keeper has a view of this court from two of his back windows. — Women have a room on the ground-floor, and one over it. No fire-place. These, though they join to

Home Circuit. ESSEX. 221

[Bridewells.]

the last-mentioned rooms for men, have no communication with them: you go to them through one of the Keeper's rooms: the court-yard quite separate; and the windows toward that. — No allowance: Prisoners have what they earn. Straw £2 a year. Firing in winter two guineas. Keeper's Salary £25: no Fees. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

1776, Dec. 6, Prisoners 3.

HALSTED. Men and women have a separate work-room, and a separate lodging-room. There is a room for the sick. All out of repair. A court-yard which men use one part of the day, women another. No water. Keeper's Salary £22: no Fees. Allowance a pound and half of bread, and a quart of small beer, a day.

1776, Nov. 19, Prisoners 4.

BARKING. A room for men, the Fore-Gaol: fifteen feet by ten and a half; seven feet high; two windows to the street. Another room, the Back-Gaol, for women; thirteen feet four inches by eleven feet, eight feet high: one window about two feet square. They are planked all over: no chimneys: and both rooms are made offensive by sewers in them. Courtyard not secure: Prisoners have no use of it; nor any access to the pump. Allowance three-pence a day. Keeper's Salary £28: no Fees. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

1776, Nov. 28, Prisoner one.

222 KENT. Home Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at MAIDSTONE.

GAOLER, Philip De'tillin.

Salary, £60, instead of the Tap.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 12: 4.

Felons, 0: 15: 4.

Transports, - 0: 15: 0 each, and the Fees.

Licence, none. See Salary.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (see Remarks.)

Felons, a loaf once in two days (weight 2lb, 4oz. Feb. 1776) and every day a quart of small beer. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 3: 0.

Felons, 0: 1: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, April 13, - 21 - 31,

1775, July 25, - 17 - 26,

1776, Feb. 19, - 22 - 38.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Hudson.

Duty — Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary, £30; lately augmented to £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Waller.

Salary, £50, for the Gaol and Bridewell.

Home Circuit. KENT. 223

MAIDSTONE.

[Remarks.]

THE Rooms in the Felons Wards are sizeable; but the air is obstructed by broad wooden bars at the windows instead of iron ones. There are three court-yards: one for Debtors; one for Men-felons; and one for Women-felons. The two last are much too small; but may be commodiously enlarged, by adding to them the adjacent court of the Old Bridewell, which will soon be disused. Then also a Chapel might be built; and service no longer performed, as it now is, upon the stairs.

Felons are allowed yearly ten chaldron of coals: they have barrack-beds*, and hop-bagging withdraw; but no coverlids. This County has for years past been so considerate as to pay the Fees of poor Prisoners acquitted: and to Transports cast at Assizes, who are entitled to the King's allowance of two shillings and six-pence a week, they continue the allowance which they had before trial. They also pay the Gaoler's Fees for those Convicts. The Felons said they wished for more bread; and would, if that were increased, be content with less beer.

The Baker who serves the Felons sells thirteen loaves to the dozen; and Debtors have amongst them every thirteenth loaf.

There is an Alarm-Bell; and a Sail-Ventilator.

On examining two sick Prisoners, I found they had no irons; and the Surgeon said the Gaoler was always ready to take them off when, he requested it.

* These are low stages of boards; raised from the floor, and sloping from the wall towards the middle of the room,

224 KENT. Home Circuit.

TABLE OF FEES.

Kent, to wit.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler — at Maidstone — settled — at the General Quarter Sessions — holden — on Thursday the 12th day of July in the 24th year of — George II — and in the year — 1750 pursuant to the direction of the Statute in that behalf provided.

£. S. D.

For the discharge from the said Gaol of every Prisoner committed for Treason, Felony or any offence against his Majesty's peace to the Gaoler or Keeper — 0 13: 4

To Turnkey on commitment of every such Prisoner — 0: 1: 0

To him more on the discharge of every such Prisoner — 0: 1: 0

On the commitment or coming into Gaol of every Prisoner in a civil action, to the said Gaoler or Keeper — 0: 3: 0

On the discharge of every such Prisoner to the said Gaoler or Keeper — *0: 7: 10

And to the Turnkey — 0: 1: 6

For the use of bed bedding and sheets for each of the said last mentioned Prisoners on the Master's-side of the said Prison for the first night to the said Gaoler or Keeper — 0: 0: 6

And for every night after the first — 0: 0: 3

And if two such Prisoners lye together in one bed then — 0: 0: 2

For every such Prisoner as shall chuse to be on the Master's-side for the use of the bed, bedding and sheets the first night — 0: 0: 6

For every night after the first — 0: 0: 3

But if two such Prisoners lye together then two-pence each — 0: 0: 4

* Those figures 0: 7: 10 are written upon a rasure.

Home Circuit. KENT. 225

£. S. D.

If any such Prisoner through poverty can only provide a couch, then to the said Gaoler or Keeper for Chamber Rent per week — 0: 0: 1.

July 12th 1750 Seen and allowed by us

Wm. Turner

Herbt. Palmer

P. Boteler

Jas.Calder

Ed. Austen

W. Champness.

A True Copy.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

MAIDSTONE. A new Prison: separate wards, areas, workshops, and infirmaries for men and women: opposite windows to transmit fresh air. Keeper's Salary £20. No Prisoners here as yet. In the old Bridewell,

1776, Feb. 19, Prisoners 2.

CANTERBURY. Men and women separate. The latter have the back court in which their ward is. The men have no court-yard but they have a hall or kitchen to the street; and three wards or night-rooms to the yard. Out of the Keeper's garden or yard might be taken a court-yard for the men. There is no water within reach of the men: yet I always found the Prison remarkably clean. County allowance, two pennyworth of bread a day. No employment. Last Lady-Day (or April) Sessions, the Justices abolished Fees £0: 13: 4, and raised the Salary from £25 to £40. Licence for Beer.

1774, April 13, Prisoners 8,

1776, Feb. 17, - 13,

1776, May 25, - 6.

226 KENT. Home Circuit.

At CANTERBURY is also the

CITY GAOL, over the West-gate. One large day-room for men and women: and in each of the two Towers, a small night-room. No court-yard; and Prisoners are seldom permitted to walk on the leads. Allowance three pennyworth of bread a day. Keeper's Salary £5. Fees, Debtors £0: 6: 8, Felons £0: 13: 4: no Table. He keeps a public house adjoining, in which is a room or two for Master side Debtors.

Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, April 13, - 3 - 6,

1776, Feb. 17, - 3 - 2.

DARTFORD. This County Bridewell, built in 1720, consists of two rooms: one for men, twenty-one feet by seventeen and a half: one for women, fourteen feet square: both ten feet high. No chimneys: offensive sewers; and the rooms dirty: no water: no straw: mats, but quite worn out. No yard though the Keeper has a garden. His Salary £20: Fees £0: 3: 6: no Table. Allowance to those committed on suspicion of Felony, two-pence a day. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

The Keeper told me, they had about two years ago, a bad Fever; which himself and family, and every fresh Prisoner caught. Two died of it. The Prisoners are now well, and at work, upon a Manufacture of Flax-dressing and weaving Sacks.

Window-tax £1: 11: 6 paid by the County.

1776, April 24, Prisoners 6.

Home Circuit. KENT. 227

THERE ARE ALSO IN THIS COUNTY,

ROCHESTER CITY GAOL, under the Court-Room. One day-room to the street; and two inner or night-rooms: not clean. In the Keeper's house is a room for Debtors; and another in which Women-felons were kept when the Assizes were held here. No Court-yard: no water accessible to Prisoners. Allowance two-pence a day. Keeper a Sergeant: no Salary: Fees £0: 6: 0: no Table.

Debtor. Felons.

1774, April 14, - 1 - None.

1776, May 25, - 0 - 0.

DOVER CASTLE, for Debtors in the Cinque-Ports, i. e. Hastings, Dover, Hyth, Romney and Sandwich.

The Earl of Holderness is Bodar. Three rooms: no yard: no water. Entrance Fee £1: 6: 8. Keeper is Bailiff for the Cinque-Ports. Salary £30. His Prison dirty: his apology for it was that "he had been absent some weeks on his business as an Officer.”

1776, Feb. 17, Prisoners 4.

DOVER TOWN GAOL. One room of it is the Bridewell. The Gaol is two rooms on the ground-floor, and two above. No fire-places. All close and offensive. The court-yard not secure. Allowance four-pence a day . Keeper, no salary; but a Chaldron of Coals: Fees £0: 8: 2: no Table.

Debtors. Felons &c.

1775; July 25, - 1 - 2,

1776, Feb. 17, - 3 - 4,

1776, May 25, - 2 - 3.

228 SUSSEX. Home Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at HORSHAM.

GAOLER, Charles Cooper.

Salary, £120 of late; instead of the Beer-Tap.

Fees, Debtors, } £1: 4: 10.

Felons, }

Transports, - 2: 2: 0 each.

Licence, for Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two pennyworth of bread a day (weight 18 ounces, Sep. 1774).

Garnish, £0: 6: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Dec. 17, - 11 - 7,

1774, Sept. 29, - 5 - 13,

1776, Feb. 22, - 13 - 8.

CHAPLAIN, None. But the Clergyman who attends condemned Criminals has £5 a year.

SURGEON, lately dead.

Salary, £5 for Felons.

[Remarks.]

THE Rooms are too small, except the Free-ward for Debtors. No straw: no yard; and yet ground enough for one behind the Gaol. Transports convicted at Quarter Sessions, have, as those condemned at Assize, the King's allowance of two shillings and six-pence

Home Circuit. SUSSEX. 229

pence a week. Lent Assize at East-Grinstead; where there is no Prison: Summer Assize, at Lewes and Horsham alternately.

There is a new Gaol building. The Duke of Richmond, in concurrence with the other Gentlemen of the County, has interested himself much in this affair: the Situation is judiciously chosen; and the Plan is such as appears to me particularly well suited for the purpose.

TABLE OF FEES.

[Sussex.]

A List of Fees taken by the Gaoler of the said County.

£. S. D.

Upon the discharge of every Debtor — 1: 2: 4

The Sheriff's Fee thereupon — 0: 11: 8

Turnkey thereupon — 0: 2: 6

For every peck of charcoal — 0: 0: 3

For every fagot — 0: 0: 2½

For every quart of small beer — 0: 0: ½

For lodgings in the Gaoler's beds by the week — 0: 2: 0

Upon the discharge of every Felon, to the Gaoler — 1: 2: 4

Allowed and settled at the General Quarter Sessions held at Petworth the 3d day of October 1737 By us

John Butler

R. Mill

J. Jewkes

Wm Gratwicke.

230 SUSSEX. Home Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

HORSHAM. Only one room; about ten feet and a half by ix and a half, not six and a half high. In it the Prisoners are always locked up. Allowance two pennyworth of bread a day: no employment. Keeper, a Widow, whose Husband died of the Gaol-Fever: Salary £10: Fees £0: 3: 4: no Table.

1774, Sept. 29, Prisoners, none.

1776, Feb. 22, - none.

LEWES. Here men and women have separate apartments, courts, &c. Keeper's Salary £30. Fees £0: 6: 3: no Table. The produce of the Prisoners work for three years past, was not twenty shillings a year; although there were in the respective years committed Prisoners 45 — 85 — 65,

1776, Feb. 21, Prisoners 5.

PETWORTH. This Bridewell has two rooms: one seventeen feet by ten, full six feet high; the other eighteen by nine, six feet high: too small for the general number of Prisoners. No chimney: no yard: no water: no employment. Allowance a penny loaf a day. This I once found to weigh seven ounces and a half. Keeper's Salary lately augmented from £12 to £20. Fees £0: 6: 8: no Table.

The Keeper told me (in September 1774) that "all his

Home Circuit. SUSSEX. 231

"Prisoners were, upon discharge, much weakened by the close confinement, and small allowance.”

Thomas Draper and William Godfrey were committed the 6th of January 1776; the former died the 11th, the other the 26th of the same month. William Cox, committed the 13th of January, died the 23d. None of them had the Gaol-Fever. I do not affirm that these men were famished to death: it was extreme cold weather. However, since that time, the allowance of bread is doubled. For this the Prisoners are indebted to the kind attention of the Duke of Richmond.

1774, Sept. 28, Prisoners 4,

1776, Feb. 23, - 8.

CHICHESTER CITY GAOL,

Over the-East-gate. Has two or three rooms; and a court-yard, but no water. Allowance to Felons &c. two-pence a day. Gaoler, a Sergeant at Mace: Salary £5: Fees, Debtors £0: 6: 8: no Table.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Sept. 28, 1 - 0,

1776, Feb. 25, 2 - 1.

232 Home Circuit. SURRY.

COUNTY GAOL in SOUTHWARK.

GAOLER, Benjamin Hell.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 11: 4.

Felons, 0: 15: 4.

Transports, - (See Remarks.)

Licence, for Beer and Wine. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } three halfpennyworth of bread a day (weight 17 ounces, Dec. 1776). Legacies. (See Remarks.)

Felons, S}

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 4: 6.

Felons, 0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 9, - 30 - 60

1776, March 4, - 19 - 59

1776, Dec. 25, - 18 - 15

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Dyer.

Duty — Sunday.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Messrs. Burt and Co.

Salary, £20 for this Gaol, and the Bridewell in St. George's Fields; and £5 for Travelling Charges to report at the Quarter Sessions, the State of the Prisoners.

Home Circuit. SURRY. 233

SOUTHWARK.

[Remarks.]

THE NEW GAOL, besides the Gaoler's House, and the Tap-room has for — Master's-side Debtors a parlour, and four other sizeable rooms; and for Common-side Debtors, four good rooms. Mr. Hall takes care to prevent these being crowded with the wives and children of the Debtors. For these Prisoners, there is a court-yard: into which Felons are not admitted; except a few, whom the Gaoler has reasons for indulging with that distinction.

The ward for Men-felons has six rooms on three floors: in these they sleep. There is a yard belonging to it. — The ward for Women-felons has two lower rooms, two above; and a court-yard belonging to it. In the two upper rooms, are put Malefactors of either sex condemned to die.

I have here noted nineteen rooms: yet they are not sufficient for the number of Prisoners. Mr. Hall is sometimes obliged to put Men-felons into some rooms of the Women's ward.

In so close a Prison situated in a populous neighbourhood, I did not wonder to see in March 1776 several Felons sick on the floors. No bedding nor straw: no Infirmary: no Chapel: Divine Service is performed in the Parlour; which is too small for the purpose; about sixteen feet square. The Act for preserving the health of Prisoners is on a painted board. The Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors are hung up.

If the County do not build a new Gaol, more roomy and airy, and in a better situation, it would at least be adviseable to add to

234 SURRY. Home Circuit.

this an Infirmary; which, with a Chapel under it, they may build on the vacant ground beyond the Women's ward.

Transports have not the King's allowance of two shillings and six-pence a week. For these Convicts a Merchant contracts with the County to take them at the Gaol: the Gaoler sends them to the ship, attended by his servants; and receives from the Merchant £0: 10: 6 for each Prisoner so conducted.

Lent Assize is at Kingston: Summer Assize at Guildford and Croydon alternately. At this last town there is no Prison.

There is hung up in the Gaol a printed List of sixteen Legacies and Donations. The dates of the first six are 1555, — 71, — 76, — 84, — 97, — 98. Three are in the next century, viz. 1609, — 38, — 56. The other seven are not dated: and one of them noted on the List, has not been received since 1726. There are also other articles which seem to need inspection. Two of the Charities are for Debtors expressly: the others are not so distinguished; but Debtors have them all. In the title of the paper it is said, "The Gaol was formerly called the White Lion Prison.” The common Seal of the Prison is a Lion rampant.

There is another Legacy bequeathed by Eleanor Gwynn, not, I think, in the List; from which are sent to this Prison once in eight weeks, sixty-four penny loaves. Common-side Debtors have this as well as the preceding Gifts.

Home Circuit. SURRY. 235

[Surrey, to wit.]

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Gaoler — of the common Gaol or Prison in Southwark — for any Prisoner committed — Chamber Rent there or Discharge — pursuant to the Statute — made — 12th — of the reign of our Sovereign Lord George III &c. and in the year of our Lord 1772.

£. S. D.

For the discharge from the said Gaol of every Prisoner committed for Treason, or Felony or any offence against his Majesty's peace, to the Gaoler or Keeper — 0: 13: 4

To the Turnkey on every commitment of such Prisoner — 0: 1: 0

To the Turnkey on the discharge of every such Prisoner — 0: 1: 0

On the commitment or coming into Gaol of every Prisoner in a Civil Action, to the said Gaoler or Keeper — 0: 3: 0

On the discharge of every such Prisoner, to the said Gaoler or Keeper — 0: 6: 10

And to the Turnkey — 0: 1: 6

For the use of bed bedding and sheets for each of the said mentioned Prisoners on the Master side of the said Prison, for the first night, to the said Gaoler or Keeper — 0: 0: 6

And for every night after the first — 0: 0: 2

But if two such Prisoners lye together in one bed, then 1 one penny halfpenny each — 0: 0: 3

To the Clerk of the Papers on every discharge of any Prisoner in a Civil Action — 0: 1: 0

For every such Prisoner as shall chuse to be on the Master side for the use of bed and bedding and sheets the first night — 0: 0: 6

For every night after the first — 0: 0: 3

But if two such Prisoners lye together in one bed, then two-pence each — 0: 0: 4

236 SURRY. Home Circuit.

£. S. D.

If any such Prisoner through poverty can only provide a couch, then to the said Gaoler or Keeper for chamber rent per week —— 0: 0: 1

Seen and allowed By us

A. Onslow

Wm Joliffe

Haymond.

N. Herdidge

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

St. GEORGE'S FIELDS. Built 1772. Separate wards and court-yards for men and women. In the men's ward, two rooms, and a workshop, which is about twenty feet square, below; and three rooms above: in one of these are beds at two shillings and six-pence a week. The women's ward has, below, one room, and a workshop, which is about twenty feet square; and three rooms above: in one of them beds at two shillings and six-pence a week. There is a separate room for faulty apprentices. All the rooms are planked. Window-shutters, and iron bars: no glass. There is no Infirmary. In March 1776 I saw several sick on the floors: the County allows no bedding nor straw. In April only one sick, on a bed which he paid for. In December a woman sick on the floor. The rooms are dirty: in two or three of them were fowls. Prisoners allowance three halfpence a day in bread (weight Dec. 1776, 17 ounces). No firing. I did not fee any at work. Keeper a Sheriff's Officer: Salary £25: Licence for Beer.

Home Circuit. SURRY. 237

The Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors, and the Act for preferring the health of Prisoners, are both hung up.

1776, March 14, Prisoners 25,

1776, April 30, - 24,

1776, Dec. 25, - 29.

Of the twenty-nine Prisoners at the last date, were, four women sentenced for ten years, one woman for three years, three men for three years, four men for two years, three men for one year.

In the men's court is a board, on which is painted as follows:

FEES to be taken by the Keeper of this Prison.

£. S. D.

On every Prisoner for Ward Dues — 0: 0: 2

On the discharge of every Prisoner committed — 0: 4: 2

Prisoners brought in by a Justice's Warrant and discharged — 0: 2: 6

NO Garnish to be taken from one Prisoner to another by Order of the Keeper.

N. B. This Prohibition is disregarded.

KINGSTON upon Thames. This Bridewell, built in 1775, has a house for the Keeper; and separate wards (quite distinct buildings) for men and women: with separate courts, work-shops, pumps, &c. Each ward has two lower rooms; three steps above the ground; and two chambers. The men's rooms are near seventeen feet by fourteen, and full nine high: the women's, about fifteen feet square, and nine high. Every room planked all round: a chimney in each; and two windows, with shutters, and iron bars; no glass. — The men's

238 SURRY. Home Circuit.

[Bridewells.]

court-yard fifty-eight feet by fifty: the women's, forty-five by thirty-five. Prisoners pay a shilling entrance for the use of them. There is also a room built quite separate for faulty apprentices; about eight feet by eleven, and full eight high; it has a fire-place.

It is pity that to a Prison in other respects so commodious, the Gentlemen did not add an infirmary. Using any of the rooms for that purpose, will not prevent the communication of Small-Pox &c.

County allowance to Prisoners a three halfpenny loaf a day (weight 14 to 15 ounces). No bedding. They were at work. The Keeper has the profit of it; a Salary of £25; and Fees £0: 3: 4: no Table. — Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

One of the Prisoners who was committed for bastardy, and not finding sureties, had been sent back hither, from the preceding Quarter Sessions at Ryegate; where there is no Prison. I had heard of the hardships suffered by Prisoners when conveyed for trial to such towns; and inquired of this man, what was his situation at Ryegate. He said that "he and fifteen others were confined there two or three days in a very small room; and almost suffocated.” The Keeper who was present confirmed the fact.

Quarter sessions are held Lady-Day at Ryegate, Mid-summer at Guildford, Michaelmas at Kingston, Christmas at St. Margaret's Hill.

1776, April 26, Prisoners 4.

Home Circuit. SURRY. 239

At KINGSTON there is also the

TOWN GAOL. It contains two lower rooms, and three chambers; the cielings very low. A court-yard; not secure. The rooms are dirty; and at last Assize were full of Prisoners. Gaoler keeps a public house — No Salary. — Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

1776, April 26, Prisoners, none.

In the Town Hall there is a table of gaoler's fees, and various other fees. It is dated 10th Decemr. 1603; and confirmed by the High Steward of the Town, the King's Attorney General Steward of the Court, the two Bailiffs, the Recorder &c.

£. S. D.

For every one arrested wanting sureties and sent to Gaol — 0: 2: 0

For every one sent to ward upon commandement or arrested for a trifle or being very poor not above — 0: 0: 8

For the Fee of the Irons of every one committed for Felony or suspicion of Felony or for any other heinous crime — 0: 2: 0

I am tempted to transcribe many more articles of this curious ancient Table: I cannot omit the two or three following.

£. S. D.

For arresting any Freeman of this Town Inhabitant within the Watch — 0: 0: 6

For the Attorney's Fee upon evidence delivering to a Jury, when there is no other Counsell — 0: 2: 6

Every Counseller's Fee in this Court — 0: 6: 8

240 SURRY. Home Circuit.

[Bridewells.]

GUILDFORD BRIDEWELL has four rooms, besides the Infirmary (lately a stable), and the condemned room. Yet when the Assize is held here, and Prisoners are brought from Southwark, it is much crowded. A court-yard, for the use of which every Prisoner pays Entrance-money one shilling. No sewer. Two rooms have in the roof an iron-grated lattice, about five feet by four, and an open turret above; very useful for freshening those rooms. Allowance a threepenny loaf every other day (weight Feb. 1776, two pounds). No bedding nor straw. — I did not see any at work. — Keeper's Salary £25: Fees £0: 3: 4: no Table. The Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors are hung up.

1773, Dec. 17, Prisoners 6.

1776, Feb. 24, - 6.

Norfolk Circuit. BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. 241

COUNTY GAOL at AYLESBURY.

GAOLER, Thomas Smith.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, £0: 15: 10.

Felons, 0: 18: 4.

Transports, - (See Remarks.)

License, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 8: 0.

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. Felons

1773, Nov. 27, - 6 - 17,

1774, Nov. 12, - 4 - 8,

1776, Jan. 3, - 10 - 10.

1776, Nov. 2, 7 - 13,

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Hopkins.

Duty — Sunday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Ludgate.

Salary, £20 for Debtors, Felons, and the Bridewell.

[Remarks.]

ONE Court-yard. A hall for Debtors; and sundry rooms for the Master's-side: but no free ward. In the Felon's day-room is an oven for purifying the cloaths. A separate room, or two for Women-

242 BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. Norfolk Circuit.

Felons. Two condemned Rooms. In the interval of my first and second visit six or seven died of the Gaol-Distemper. At my last visits, after the appointing Mr. Ludgate, all the Prisoners were well. No Infirmary. No Chapel: Divine Service is performed in the Shire-hall, which joins to the Prison. No Table of Fees. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

Mr. Smith contracts to supply Debtors and Felons with a pound of bread a day, and two hot dinners a week; and to convey Transports to London; for £70 a year.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at AYLESBURY.

The two work rooms, and the lodging rooms, are small: one of the latter only 5½ feet by 4, and 6 feet high. A court in front only 8 feet wide, lately enclosed from the spacious Court-yard of the Keeper behind the County Gaol. Mr. Smith (the County Gaoler) is Keeper; salary £30. Fie puts in a Deputy, who serves for living rent free. Prisoners allowance one pound of bread a day.

1774, Nov. 12, - Prisoners 2.

1776, Jan. 3, - 3.

1776, Nov. 2, - 1.

Norfolk Circuit. BEDFORDSHIRE. 243

COUNTY GAOL at BEDFORD.

GAOLER, Thomas Howard.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 17: 4

Felons, }

Transports, If only one £6: if two, £5 each: all above two, £4. each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, two quartern-loaves a week each.

Felons, two halfpeck-loaves a week each.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 5: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, - 5 to 10, - 6 to 9,

1776, Feb. 12, - 8, - 5.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Lloyd.

Duty — Sunday and Thursday.

Salary, £10.

SURGEON, Mr. Gadsby.

Salary, £12 for the Gaol and Bridewell.

[Remarks.]

IN this Prison there is a day-room for Debtors, which is used as a Chapel, and three or four lodging-rooms: for Felons, two day-rooms, one for men, the other for women, without fire-places: two dungeons, down eleven steps, and often

244. BEDFORDSHIRE. Norfolk Circuit.

very damp. The straw, for which the County allows the Gaoler £5 a year, is not on the floors, but on frames or bedsteads. On application, the Justices allow in winter coals both to Felons and Debtors. The court-yard is common to both, and small. No apartments for the Gaoler.

Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors are not hung up. When I was Sheriff, I was culpably ignorant of that Act. No Infirmary. About twenty years ago the Gaol-Fever was in this Prison: some died there, and many in the town; among whom was Mr. Daniel the Surgeon, who attended the Prisoners. His Successor, Mr. Gadfly, judiciously changed the medicines from Sudorifics (generally used before) to Bark and Cordials: and a Sail-Ventilator being soon after put up, the Gaol has been free from the Fever almost ever since.

FEES on a printed paper, signed by the late Gaoler, as follows:

ALL Persons that come to this place, either by warrant, commitment, or verbally; must pay before discharg'd, fifteen shillings and four pence, to the Gaoler, and two shillings to the Turnkey.

T. Richardson.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BEDFORD,

Consists of three rooms on the ground-floor: no fire-place: a small court-yard: no water accessible to the Prisoners. — Keeper's Salary £30: no Fees.

1776, Feb. 13, Prisoners 3.

Norfolk Circuit. HUNTINGDONSHIRE. 245

COUNTY GAOL at HUNTINGDON.

GAOLER, Henry Blane, now Robert Nunn.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 12: 6.

Felons, 0: 15: 10.

Transports, If only one £12; if more, £9 each: he paying the Clerk of Assize a guinea for each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, four halfquartern-loaves a week.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. Felons

1773, Nov. 5, - 7 - 4,

1774, Jan. 29, - 7 - 3,

1775, Nov. 9, - 4 - 5,

1776, Sep. 27, - 3 - 6.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Brock. Now no Chaplain. (See Remarks.)

SURGEON, Mr. Hunt.

Salary, £5: 5: 0.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is also the county bridewell and town gaol.

For Debtors, a day-room or kitchen; and over it a large lodging-room. Near it is a day-room for Felons: and down nine steps a

246 HUNTINGDONSHIRE. Norfolk Circuit.

dungeon for Men-felons; in which is a small condemned room. In another place, down seven steps, is a dungeon for Women-felons: the floor of it level with the court-yard: in which is the Bridewell. This has two rooms below for men; and two above for women. The Prison is too small: but I always found the whole of it remarkably clean. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. No Infirmary. Mr. Nunn's Salary for the Bridewell is £24: 16: 0, for the Town Gaol £3. — Straw £4: 16: 0 a year.

I was sorry to hear at my last visit that Mr. Brock, the late Chaplain, who officiated very constantly twice a week, and had a Salary of £20, was dismissed. He would have continued his attendance, without the Salary; but an order was made expressly forbidding it.

TABLE OF FEES.

[Huntingdonshire.]

A Table of the ancient accustomed Fees demanded taken and received time immemorial by the Gaoler for the time being of his Majesty's Gaol in the Town of Huntingdon and for the County of Huntingdon as well for Civil Prisoners as Criminal Prisoners.

£. S. D.

For the Dismission Fee for each Debtor to the Keeper — 0: 10: 0

For the like to the Turnkey — 0: 2: 6

For Debtors bed per week — 0: 2: 4

For bed per week if two Debtors lye together — 0: 3: 6

Norfolk Circuit. Huntingdonshire. 247

As to Criminal Prisoners,

£. S. D.

For the Dismission Fee of each Criminal Prisoner discharged out of custody, either by the Magistrates, or by the Courts of Assize or Sessions — 0: 13: 14

For the like to the Turnkey — 0: 2: 6

For bed per week each Fine Trespass or Felon — 0: 3: 6

For bed per week if two lye together — 0: 4: 8

Robert Nunn

Keeper of the County Gaol of Huntingdonshire

Oct. 14. 1774.

There is a rasure, which cancels the name of the former Gaoler Henry Blane, and the date when he signed.

248 CAMBRIDGESHIRE. Norfolk Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL, CAMBRIDGE CASTLE.

GAOLER, Simeon Saunders.

Salary, £12: 14: 0.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 14: 8.

Felons, 0: 10: 8.

Transports, £6: 6: 0 each: he paying the Clerk of Assize £1: 1: 0 for each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, two-pence a day.

Garnish, £0: 1: 0

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 4, - 8 - 2,

1774, Dec. 13, - 6 - 4,

1776, Feb. 9, - 8 - 6,

1776, Sep. 27, 10 - 0.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Prince.

Salary, none; he makes a Bill.

[Remarks.]

THE PRISON is the Gate of the old Castle. Below are two strong rooms; one for Men-felons, the other for Women. You go up twenty-two stone steps outside to the Debtors apartments. On the first floor is a room for the Turnkey; a large kitchen; and

Norfolk Circuit. CAMBRIDGESHIRE. 249

two or three other rooms. Above them are three rooms and a condemned room. All the rooms are sizeable, but not very secure: a Prisoner escaped lately. — Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up, by a written Order of Thomas Cockran, Esq. Sheriff. — Straw twenty shillings a year. — The Castle-yard is spacious, but not safe; and Prisoners have not the use of it. In it is the Gallows.

Debtors have some small relief from a Legacy, paid by St. John's and Sidney Colleges: and twenty shillings a year, deducting Land-tax, from an Estate at Croxton in this County. No Memorial of either in the Prison.

[Cambridgeshire.]

THE General Quarter Sessions of the Peace — held at the Shire Hall in Cambridge — the 19th — of April in the 5th year — of Geo III — 1765 Before Edward Leeds Hale Wortham and Wm Howell Even Esqrs Justices &c.

A TABLE OF FEES

Settled — pursuant to a late Act — passed in the act — of George II Intituled, An Act for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors &c. — to be hung up publickly in the Prison of the Castle of Cambridge.

£. S. D.

To the Gaoler for the Commitment Fee to be paid at the time of Commitment, only — 0: 5: 4

To the Gaoler for the discharge of every Prisoner to be paid at the time of his discharge, only — 0: 5: 4

To the Sheriff for the discharge of every Prisoner to be paid on such discharge — 0: 2: 0

To be paid for the weekly rent of an entire chamber, with one bed only, and clean linnen — 0: 2: 0

250 CAMBRIDGESHIRE. Norfolk Circuit.

£. S. D.

And in case more Prisoners are put into a room, so that there is occasion for more beds in the same chamber, Then there shall be paid for the use of the chamber, and of every bed and linnen and cloaths belonging to it the sun of —— 0: 1: 6

Edwd Leeds

Hale Wortham

Wm H Ewen.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at CAMBRIDGE

Is in the Castle-yard; and joins to the Gaoler's house. It has a large work room (in which was a quantity of hemp) and a dark room adjoining. Above, is a room with three cages or lodging rooms. Mr. Saunders the County Gaoler is Keeper: Salary £2.

1774, Dec. 13, Prisoners 4,

1776, Feb. 9, - 6,

1776, Sep. 27, - 1.

There are also at CAMBRIDGE the

TOWN GAOL.

Below is a room for criminals, the Hole; about twenty-one feet by seven. The Prisoner, whom I saw there last, was a miserable object: he had been confined several weeks: no allowance.

Above are several rooms for Debtors and one for Criminals, the Cage. No Court-yard: no water accessible to Prisoners. Gaoler no

Norfolk Circuit. Cambridgeshire. 251

Salary: Commitment Fee £0: 6: 8, per Table dated 17th Jan. 1765. Licence for Beer.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Dec. 13, - 2 - 3,

1776, Feb. 9, - 2 - 0,

1776, Sep. 28, - 1 - 1.

TOWN BRIDEWELL.

[Cambridge.]

On the ground-floor, one room for men, twenty-one feet by six: and two lodging-rooms for women; each nine feet by five. In these bridge. are lately put bedsteads for straw or coverlids: so that Prisoners do not now sleep on the ground. — Above is a large work-room for women: no fire-place.

There is a small court-yard; of no use to the Prisoners, because not secure. No water: no sewer. The whole Prison out of repair.

College, or Vice-Chancellor Prisoners, have four-pence on Sunday, to prevent the necessity of their working on that day as formerly. Those of them that are ill are properly attended, and have three-pence a day. No allowance of bread for Town Prisoners.

Keeper's Salary £30: no Fees. Straw £ 1: 1: o a year.

The Bridewell stands in the back yard of the Keeper's house; which was bought and endowed for the encouragement of wool-combers and spinners of this town. The basis of the Institution was a Legacy of the famous Carrier Thomas Hobson. To answer the intention, the Keeper appointed is a Clothier: he employs not only several hands upon the Foundation of the Charity, but many others; among them his Prisoners.

1774, Dec. 13, Prisoners 3,

1776, Sep. 28, - 7.

252 CAMBRIDGESHIRE. Norfolk Circuit.

ELY GAOL.

GAOLER, John Allday.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 15: 3,

Felons, 0: 13: 4.

Transports, £5 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } none.

Felons, }

Garnish, £0: 1: 4

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Jan. 30, - 6 - 0,

1774, Dec. 13, 1 - 2,

1776, Feb. 9, 11 - 3,

1776, Sep. 28, 7 - 1.

CHAPLAIN, None,

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, the property of the Bishop, who is Lord of the Franchise of the Isle of Ely, was in part rebuilt by the late Bishop about ten years ago; upon complaint of the cruel method* which, for want of a safe Gaol, the Keeper took to secure his Prisoners.

* This was by chaining them down on their backs upon a floor, across which were several iron bars; with an iron collar with spikes about their necks, and a heavy iron bar over their legs. An excellent Magistrate, James Collyer, Esq. presented an account of the case, accompanied with a drawing; to the King; with which his Majesty was much affected, and gave immediate orders for a proper inquiry and redress.

Norfolk Circuit. CAMBRIDGESHIRE. 253

For Master's-side Debtors three rooms up stairs: a room on the same floor for condemned Felons. Below stairs is the Felons day-room; and their cell or night-room, with a window about a foot square. There is a court-yard for Felons, with an offensive sewer. No water. — For Debtors a court-yard with a pump; but no free ward. No Infirmary. No straw. Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. Keeper a Sheriff's Officer for the Isle, and for the County of Cambridge. No Table of Fees.

Assize in this Isle, of late, twice a year, viz. Lent at Ely, Summer at Wisbeach.

BRIDEWELLS.

ELY. One room below for men; and two above for women. The yard not secure; and Prisoners always locked up within doors. In February 1776, a woman sick: no Apothecary. — No allowance; but twenty shillings a year for straw. — Keeper's Salary £10.

1774, Dec. 13, Prisoners 2,

1776, Feb. 9, - 3,

1776, Sep. 28, - 1.

WISBEACH. Two or three rooms. No court-yard. No water. Allowance a penny a day; and straw twenty shillings a year. Keeper's Salary £16: no Fees. — This Prison might be improved on the Keeper's Garden.

1776, Feb. 3, Prisoners 2.

254 NORFOLK. Norfolk Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL, NORWICH CASTLE.

GAOLER, George Gynne.

Salary, none: he pays the Under Sheriff £31: 10: 0 per annum.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 7: 8,

Felons, 0: 13: 4.

Transports, £5: 15: 6 each.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } a two-penny loaf each per day (weight in Dec. 1774, 20 ounces), and every week in common a stone of cheese; in winter twelve bushels of coals, in summer six bushels.

Felons, }

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 5: 0.

Felons, 0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 1, - 30 - 14,

1774, Dec. 10, - 16 - 15,

1776, Feb. 5, - 29 - 16,

1776, Nov. 17, - 18 - 32.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Willins.

Duty — Friday.

Salary, £30.

SURGEON, Mr. Palgrave.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

Norfolk Circuit. NORFOLK. 255

NORWICH CASTLE

[Remarks.]

IS SITUATED on the summit of a hill. That part which is called the Upper Gaol has ten rooms for Master's-side Debtors; and Leads for them to walk on. — The Low Gaol has several rooms for Debtors, Felons &c. — A small area in the middle of the Gaol, in which are lately made some improvements; such as a pump, a convenient bath, and some rooms over it. There is a dungeon down a ladder of eight steps, for Men-felons; in which is often an inch or two of water: and a small room for Women-felons; which keeps them always separate from the men, except when delicacy would most of all require it. There are two airy rooms for the sick: so distinct from the rest of the Prison, that there is no danger of spreading any infection from thence. The Gaoler is humane, and respected by his Prisoners. These, Felons as well as Debtors, sell at the grates of their separate day-rooms, laces, purses, nets &c. of their own making.

A nurse or Matron to attend the sick; and provide for them, when the Surgeon orders it, broth, gruel, milk-pottage and extra-firing. — She orders the straw, which is not farmed, but paid for per load by the County. — It is also her business to see that the Prisoners be duly served with their allowance of bread, which is remarkably good. At Lent Assize Prisoners are moved from hence to Thetford; and put into a dungeon which is described in that place.

Mrs. Frances Kempe formerly bequeathed certain Charities to the Poor of Norwich and Heyden; and a Stipend for preaching three Sermons a year. For Payment, she bound an estate in Heyden left her by her father John Mingay, Esq. — Among the Charities were some to Prisoners in this Castle, and in the City Gaol. These have for many

256 NORFOLK. Norfolk Circuit.

years past received nothing; although the Legacies are paid to the other Objects.

TABLE OF FEES.

Norfolk.

A Table of the Rates Fees and Allowances to be — taken by every Gaoler or Keeper of any Gaol or Prison within the said County — settled — at the General Quarter Session — holden by Adjournment at the Cattle of Norwich — 31 July — 3d of George II — 1729 — in pursuance — of a late Act — for Relief of Debtors &c.

That is to say

£. S. D.

For the commitment or coming into Gaol of any Prisoner for Debt — 0: 5: 0

For chamber rent where the Gaoler finds bedding and linnen, and a Prisoner hath a bed to him or herself, per week — 0: 2: 0

Where there are two in a bed not exceeding per week — 0: 1: 6

Where there are three in a bed not exceeding per week each Prisoner — 0: 0: 6

For the Discharge of those in Execution — 0: 5: 4

For the Discharge of those upon Outlawry — 0: 5: 4

For the Discharge of those upon Common Process — 0: 2: 8

WE his Majesty's Justices of the Peace — have hereunto set our hands — the day and year above written

31 July 1729

Confirmed by us

James Reynolds

Wm Branthwayte

R. Bacon

Miles Branthwayte

Wi Bacon

Edmd Bacon

Tom. Turner

Miles Branthwayte

Norfolk Circuit. NORFOLK. 257

NORWICH CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Benjamin Fakenham.

Salary, none: he pays the Under-Sheriff £40 a year.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 6: 8,

Felons, 0: 13: 4.

Transports, £5: 5: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } a two- penny loaf each, lately reduced to a penny loaf.

Felons, }

Garnish, £0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 1, - 52 - 7,

1774, Dec. 10, - 17 - 5,

1776, Feb. 5, - 31 - 17,

1776, Nov. 17, - 11 - 10.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Buckle.

Duty — Prayers, once a fortnight; Sermon one Tuesday in a month.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Matchett.

Salary, £S: 5: 0 for Debtors and Felons.

[Remarks.]

ONLY one court-yard. Many rooms for Master's-side Debtors. One room for Common-side Debtors, who are Freemen. There is no room for those who are not free, but the Felons day-room; which

258 Norfolk Circuit. NORFOLK.

[Norwich.]

is under the other, and down thirteen steps. The Felons' dungeons,

or night-rooms, are down eleven steps: one of them quite dark; the other almost so. The Women's dungeon down ten steps, has a fire-place: but at my two last visits they had another night-room, about ten feet and a half by five and a half, and but five feet high. Straw only £1: 1: 0 a year. — The Keeper's liable adjoining to the last room, would make the women a good separate day-room.

Many alterations are lately made for the better. The court is now paved: and some old sheds, that were in it, are taken down. Three night-rooms or cells for Felons, about three feet below the ground, eight feet square, planked all over. A bath: and over it two rooms for Debtors. Over them two airy rooms for the sick; each twenty-two feet by sixteen, near twelve feet high.

Gaol-delivery once a year.

TABLE OF FEES.

City of Norwich and County of the same City.

AT the General Quarter Session — holden at the Guild Hall — 5th October in 33d year — of George II — and — adjourned to the 16th — of the same October — before Nockold Tompson Esq. Mayor — Edward Bacon Esq. Recorder — Robert Marsh Esq. &c. &c. — Justices of — the Peace — It is Ordered by this Court in pursuance of an Act — for Relief of Debtors — That the several Fees — hereunder written, and no other or greater sums — shall be — taken by any Gaoler or Keeper of any — Prison within the — City of Norwich —

(That is to say)

Norfolk Circuit. NORFOLK. 259

£. S. D.

For the commitment or coming into Gaol of any Prisoner for debt — 0: 3: 4

For chamber rent where the Gaoler finds bedding and linnen where a Prisoner has a bed to himself or herself, by the week — 0: 1: 0

Where there are two in a bed not exceeding by the week each — 0: 0: 9

Where there are three in a bed not exceeding by the week each — 0: 0: 8

For the discharge of those in Execution — 0: 5: 4

For the discharge of those upon Outlawry — 0: 5: 4

For the discharge of those upon Common Process — 0: 3: 4

We his Majesty's Justices of the Peace — for the said City of Norwich have hereunto — set our hands —

Confirmed and allowed at the Assize and general Gaol Delivery of our Lord the King held in and for the City of Norwich and County of the same City The twenty ninth day of July One Thousand Seven Hundred and Sixty By us

T: PARKER

T: DENISON.

Nockold Tompson Mayor

Ed. Bacon

John Nuthall

J. Spurrell

Peter Colombine

Jerem Ives.

260 NORFOLK. Norfolk Circuit.

NORWICH CITY BRIDEWELL.

Apartments convenient, and kept clean. A yard and pump.

1774, Dec. 10, Prisoners 3,

1776, Feb. 5, - 5.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

SWAFFHAM. Small court-yard. No water. Offensive sewers. A large garden or field for the Keeper. Prisoners always locked up: one lunatic. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up.

1774, Dec. 11, Prisoners 7,

1776, Feb. 3, - 5.

WYMUNDHAM. A large day-room: with three closets on one side of it, for night-rooms; about six feet by four. A Prisoner complained to me of being obliged to lie in one of these closets, with two boys who had a cutaneous disorder. There is another room for women, and a dark dungeon down eight steps with the stocks in it. No Prisoners sleep there. Neither the rooms nor the spacious yard secure. Prisoners in this Bridewell are not only confined within doors, but always in irons. Keeper's Salary £16: no Fees. Allowance to those

Norfolk Circuit. NORFOLK. 261

suspected of Felony, four-pence a day. Straw ten shillings a year. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

1776, Nov. 17, Prisoners 5.

THETFORD TOWN GAOL

Is also the Town Bridewell. The ground-floor for the Keeper.

On the first story, are four rooms for Debtors; and two for Delinquents. For Felons a Dungeon down a ladder of ten steps; eighteen feet by nine and a half, and nine feet high: a window about eighteen inches by twelve: another window about two feet square, lately opened into the passage.

At Assize once a year from sixteen to twenty Prisoners brought hither from Norwich Castle are confined in this dungeon, men and women together, four or five nights. Court-yard not secure. No water. Keeper no Salary. No Fees: only the House to live in.

1774, Dec. 9, - Prisoner 1,

1776, Nov. 18, - None.

YARMOUTH

TOWN GAOL. Besides the Gaoler's house, in which are rooms for Master's-side Debtors, there are for Felons, a day-room, and court-yard, both too close; and two lodging-rooms for such as pay for them: two dungeons or night-rooms down a ladder of ten steps, one for men, the other for women. Allowance a penny loaf a day (weight in Feb. 1776, 13 ounces): four chaldron of coals a year. They send out a begging-basket three times a week. — Gaoler's Salary £15: Fees £0: 6: 8:

262 NORFOLK. Norfolk Circuit.

no Table. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

1776, Feb. 6, Debtors 6, Felons &c. 14.

YARMOUTH

TOWN BRIDEWELL. In the Work-house Yard. Four rooms; a fire-place in one of them. No water. Court of Conscience Debtors confined here, and discharged in three months.

1776, Feb. 6, Prisoners, none.

LYNN Regis

TOWN GAOL. The rooms are convenient, and kept clean. Straw and two coverlids; court-yard small. Gaoler's Salary £11: Fees, Debtors £0: 3: 4, Felons £0: 5: 0, per Table signed by the Mayor dated 1729.

1774, Dec. 11. Debtor 1.

Norfolk Circuit, SUFFOLK. 263

COUNTY GAOL at IPSWICH.

GAOLER, Rowland Baker, now John Ripshaw.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 10: 8.

Felons, }

Transports, £6: 6: 0 each; he paying Clerk of Assize £1: 1: 0 for each.

License, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, two-pence a day in bread (weight in Dec. 1774, 18½ ounces).

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 6.

Felons, 0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 3, - 22 - 14,

1774, Dec. 7, - 15 - 5,

1776, Feb. 7, - 29 - 17,

1776, Nov. 18, - 15 - 6.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Brome.

Duty — Sunday and Friday. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £50.

SURGEON

Salary, £40 for Debtors and Felons,

264 SUFFOLK. Norfolk Circuit.

IPSWICH.

[Remarks.]

THIS is also the town gaol: yet only one court-yard. — For Debtors, a kitchen, or day-room; and several chambers: one of these is lately made a free ward. — For Felons a day-room: and for the men a strong night-room; with beds excellently contrived for cleanliness and health. Each Prisoner has a crib-bedstead, ten or twelve inches high; the head raised a few inches; strong feet, low Tides. These keep as distinct as possible Prisoners who sleep in the same room; and are easily moved when the ward is to be washed. The County allows to each crib a straw bed, and a blanket. — The women have no separate day-room: and their ward, or night-room, has no fire-place. — One of the two drinking-rooms is called the Garnish-room. — Two rooms for the sick; not distinct enough from the rest. It is not without reluctance that I add, the sick in February 1776 complained to me of being neglected by the Surgeon. At my last visit, none sick. — Debtors sell at the front grate garters, purses &c. of their own making.

A neat Chapel lately built. Mr. Brome, the Chaplain, does not content himself with the regular and punctual performance of his stated Duty; He is a Friend to the Prisoners on all occasions.

Assize always at Bury: no allowance for conveying Prisoners thither. Keeper a Sheriff's Officer.

Debtors have on Sunday from a Legacy of Mr. John Pemberton, each one pound and a half of beef for broth, a penny loaf and a pint of ale. From another Legacy the Town supplies them with five chaldron of coals yearly. No Memorial in the Gaol.

Norfolk Circuit. SUFFOLK. 265

TABLE OF FEES.

Suffolk, to wit.

AT the General Quarter Sessions — holden by Adjournment at Bury St. Edmunds — 21st — July — 1729, A Table of Fees settled by the Justices of the said Division — pursuant to a late Act — for the Relief of Debtors &c. at the Assize for the County of Suffolk — at Bury St. Edmunds the 24th — of July 1729.

£. S. D.

To the Gaoler for the Commitment Fee and discharge every Prisoner — 0: 12: 8

Out of which is to be paid to the Sheriff — 0: 2: 0

To the Officer — 0: 2: 0

For the rent of every chamber weekly — 0: 2: 6

Jasper Cullum

Jermyn Davers

G. Golding

M. Shelton.

I have reviewed this Table of Fees and do think proper to moderate and reduce the same to * shillings and eight pence by disallowing the two shillings to be paid to the Officer and deducting six pence per week out of the Chamber Rent

THO. PENGELLY.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

IPSWICH. On the ground-floor is a workshop; and a night-room for men: up stairs a night-room for women. None of them, nor the court-yard secure. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. Keeper's Salary £17. No Fees.

* Erased.

266 SUFFOLK. Norfolk. Circuit.

[BRIDEWELLS.]

Prisoners, no allowance: and but half the produce of their labour.

1774, Dec. 8, Prisoners 1,

1776, Feb. 7, - 3,

1776, Nov. 18, - 2.

WOODBRIGE. Two dirty rooms. No chimney in that of the women. No straw: no water. Yard small and not safe: may be enlarged out of the Keeper's Garden. His Salary £15. Prisoners allowance two-pence a day: I saw none at work. When they work they have half the profit. No firing. One sick in bed. — Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

1776, Feb. 7, Prisoners 9.

BECCLES. A room on the ground-floor; and a dungeon seven steps under ground. Keeper's Salary £11: 10: 0. Fees £0: 6: 8: No table. Allowance a twopenny loaf a day. Thirty shillings a year for straw. £5 a year for coals. When Prisoners work they have half the profit.

1776, Feb. 6, Prisoners 3.

LAVENHAM. A work-room below: a chamber for men, another for women: none of them secure. Prisoners always kept within doors, and a padlock on each. A court-yard: no water. Keeper's Salary £ 15: 14: 8. No Fees. The Prisoners were spinning.

1776, Nov. 185 Prisoners 2 Men.

CLARE. A work-room. Two lodging-rooms with boarded bed-steads. No chimnies. Windows close glazed; and the workroom

Norfolk Circuit. SUFFOLK. 267

room made offensive by a closet in it. Court-yard not secure; and Prisoners have no access to the well of fine water. The Prison walls are clay; and the whole of it is out of repair: the Prisoner, a Woman, at work, in irons. No allowance. Keeper a Manufacturer: Salary £13: 5: 4: no Fees. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

1776, Dec. 6, Prisoner 1.

BURY St. EDMUND'S GAOL.

This Prison for the Franchise or Liberty of Bury St. Edmund's, is the property of Sir Charles Davers. The court-yard is spacious, but not secure: none have the use of it without paying a shilling a week. On one side of it are several rooms for Debtors: one of them is a work-room: those who work in it pay a shilling a week. — On the other side, is a large Dungeon down three steps; which is the day and night-room for Felons: the men are chained to staples fixed in the barrack bedsteads. No straw. There is another dungeon down a step or two; seldom used. The late Gaoler told me that in the winter 1773 five died of the Small-Pox. No Apothecary then; but one is appointed since. No Infirmary. — A Chaplain; and Prayers twice a week. — Keeper, no Salary: Fees, Debtors £0: 8: 8, Felons £0: 6: 8: no Table: Licence for Beer and Wine. — Allowance, Debtors none. Felons three-halfpennyworth of bread a day; and from the 5th of November to the Saturday before Lady-day, Felons have two bushels of coals a week, and Debtors four: both from a Legacy of which no Memorial in the Gaol. — In a Description of Bury printed 1771, there is an account of several ancient Donations and Bequests to Prisoners. Whether they be now totally sunk, or the coals be from some of them, I cannot say.

268 SUFFOLK. Norfolk Circuit.

At Assize, twice a year, Prisoners of both sexes brought from Ipswich are confined four or five nights in the Dungeon here described.

Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Dec. 9, - 10 - 15,

1776, Feb. 8, - 11 - 18,

1776, Nov. 18, - 5 - 6.

BURY BRIDEWELL.

This, it is said, was in former times a Jewish Synagogue. It has a large work-room: a room for men, and another for women: all up stairs. No court-yard: no water. Keeper's Salary £6: and four-pence for each Prisoner's straw: Fees £0: 1: 0.

1774, Dec. 9, Prisoners 2,

1776, Feb. 8, - 1,

1776, Nov. 18, - 1.

SUDBURY BOROUGH-GAOL

Has for Debtors a day-room with a fire-place; and two little rooms for them to lodge in, about seven feet by five each. — A room for Men-felons with a fire-place and a loom: — another for women; this also has a fire-place. A court-yard, not secure; and the water not accessible to Prisoners. They have no allowance. Keeper, no Salary: Fees £0: 4: 0: no Table. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

1776, Dec. 6, No Prisoners.

Midland Circuit. WARWICKSHIRE. 269

COUNTY GAOL at WARWICK.

GAOLER, William Roe Junr.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 14: 6,

Felons, 0: 13: 4.

Transports, £8: 0: 0 each, he paying Clerk of Assize £1: 1: 0 for each.

Licence to Turnkey for Beer. Gaoler brews it.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a Loaf of 3lb. every other day.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 3: 4.

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 22, - 23 - 9,

1774, Nov. 10, - 13 - 13,

1776, Jan. 6, - 24 - 33,

1776, Oct. 30, - 22 - 7.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Mussan.

Duty — Sunday and Friday.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Weale.

Salary, £20 for Gaol and Bridewell.

270 WARWICKSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

WARWICK.

[Remarks.]

ONE Court-yard for Debtors, and Men-felons. Women-felons have quite separate Court, day-room, and two night-rooms. They used to be loaded with irons; now they have none. Men-felons have a day-room: their night-room is in an octagonal Dungeon about twenty-one feet diameter, down thirty-one steps; close, damp, and offensive. Two cells, in another dungeon for the condemned. Prisoners are tried in the county cloathing. I saw twelve suits for men and six for women.*

Debtors common day-room is the Hall, which is also used as a Chapel. For Master's-side, ten or twelve rooms, some of them in the Rooks Nest, where also is the free ward.

No Infirmary. The late Gaoler Mr. Roe (uncle to the present) died in 1772 of the Gaol-Distemper; and so did some of his Prisoners. No water then, but now plenty. — The Felons allowance of bread is judiciously fixed by weight, not variable with the price.

Debtors have in common from a Legacy thirty shillings a year: and from another Legacy eight three-penny loaves at the beginning, and as many at the end, of every month. No memorial of either Legacy hung up in the Gaol.

This Prison might be improved on the adjacent ground belonging to the county.

* See a better practice at Reading in Berkshire.

Midland Circuit. WARWICKSHIRE. 271

A TABLE OF DEBTORS FEES,

As settled — by his Majesty's Justices of the Peace — at the General Quarter Sessions — held at Warwick — the 10th day of July 1759 according to the directions of an Act — for the Relief of Debtors &c.

Every Prisoner that lies on the Keeper's side if he has a bed to himself, pays by the week — 0: 2: 6

Those Prisoners on the Keeper's side and have a bed between two, pay each by the week — 0: 1: 6

For entering every action against each Prisoner — 0: 3: 0

For discharging every action against each Prisoner — 0: 10: 6

To the Under-Sheriff for every discharge — 0: 4: 0

For receiving and entering every declaration — 0: 1: 0

For a copy of each Warrant against each Prisoner — 0: 1: 0

For every Certificate of the cause of a Prisoner's being detained in Prison in order for being discharged — 0: 3: 0

We the Judges of Assize for the County of Warwick have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above Table of Fees. Given under our Hands this 24th day of August 1759

T. PARKER

JA HEWITT

F STRATFORD

M WISE

W HUDDESFORD

J BIRD

C BEAN

A true Copy.

272 WARWICKSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

IN this Gaol is hung up the following

ORDER.

Warwickshire, to wit.

AT — General Quarter Sessions — 12th January — .13th of George III — and in the year 1773 before Joseph Davie Clerk, John Ingram, Samuel Aylworth Esqrs.

Ordered and it is the opinion of this Court — that the Gaol be always kept close shut up and no persons admitted therein, or permitted to continue there after nine in the evening between Michael-mass and Lady-day, and ten in the evening between Lady-day and Michaelmass, except in cases of real necessity or business.

J T Hewitt Clerk of the Peace.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WARWICK.

This Prison, the only County Bridewell, is too small. — For men, a work-room and two lodging-rooms. — For women, two rooms in a little separate court. — No water. The handle of the pump is outside of the wall. — The whole Prison close and offensive: might be enlarged on the ground adjacent. Allowance one pound and a half of bread a day: no employment. Keeper's Salary £30: Fees £0: 4: 8: no Table. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up. Mr. Mussan (Chaplain to the County Gaol) reads Prayers here once a week.

Committed in the year 1772, Prisoners 85; in 1773, 111; in1774, 123.

1774, Nov. 10, Prisoners 1,

1776, Jan. 6, Prisoners 5,

1776, Oct. 30, Prisoners 12.

Midland Circuit. WARWICKSHIRE. 273

COVENTRY CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Basil Goode.

Salary, £12. This year, taken off.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 15: 4.

Felons, }

Transports, £8 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a pennyworth of bread

Garnish, £0: 3: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 20, - 9 - 7,

1776, Jan. 7, - 16 - 10,

1776, Oct. 30, - 7 - 5.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Harper.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, built two years ago, is in a close part of the City. I was shewn a fine spot which some Gentlemen very judiciously preferred. It has eight lodging-rooms for Master's-side Debtors; and one free ward. Women-felons sleep in their day-room. The Men have a day-room. To their Dungeons you go

274 WARWICKSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

down twelve steps to a passage only four feet wide: the four dungeons are about nine feet by six: at the upper corner of each, a little window. All are dirty, offensive and unhealthy: we went down with torches. Only one court-yard for all Prisoners. No straw. No Infirmary. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

COVENTRY CITY BRIDEWELL.

Two rooms for men; two for women; all close and offensive. No court-yard: no water accessible to Prisoners: no sewers: no employment. Keeper's Salary £5. Fees one shilling.

The old Town-Hall adjoining, and now useless, might be added to this Prison.

1776, Jan. 7, Prisoners 6.

1776, Oct. 30, Prisoners 3.

BIRMINGHAM TOWN GAOL.

The gaol for this large populous town is called the Dungeon. The court-yard is only about twenty-four feet square. Keeper's house in front; and under it two cells down eight steps: the straw is on bedsteads. On the right hand of the court two small night-rooms for women; and some rooms over them: — on the left hand is the Gaoler's stable, and one small day-room for men and women; no

Midland Circuit. WARWICKSHIRE. 275

window: — above is a free ward for Court of Conscience Debtors, who are cleared in forty days: this is a sizeable room, but has only one window eighteen inches square. Over it is another room, or two.

In this small court-yard, besides the litter from the liable, I saw a stagnant puddle near the sink, for the Gaoler's ducks. Gaoler's poultry is a very common nuisance; but in so scanty a court it is intolerable. — The whole Prison is very offensive. — At some particular times here are great numbers confined. Once in the winter 1775 there were above 150, who by the care of the Magistrates had a supply of proper food, broth &c. — Licence for Beer: Fees £0: 2: 0: no Table. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

Debtors. - Offenders.

1774, Nov. 10, - 7 - 2,

1776, Sep. 11, - 7 - 5.

276 LEICESTERSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at LEICESTER.

GAOLER, Samuel Jordan.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 15: 4.

Felons, }

Transports, If only one £8; if more than one £7 each.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } a four-penny loaf every other day (weight once 2lb. 8 oz. once 3lb. 5 oz.).

Felons }

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 4: 0,

Felons, 0: 3: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons

1773, Nov. 16, - 16 - 3,

1774, April 4, - 16 - 11,

1775, Jan. 3, - 15 - 7,

1775, Nov. 11, - 17 - 2,

1776, Oct. 29, - 17 - 5.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Pigot.

Duty — Sunday.

Salary, £30.

SURGEON, Mr. Mason.

Salary, £15 for Debtors and Felons.

Midland Circuit. Leicestershire. 277

LEICESTER.

[Remarks.]

FOR Master's-side Debtors eight or nine rooms. Day-room common. The free ward the Cellar is a long dungeon*, which is down seven steps and damp; two windows; the largest about a foot square. Felons day and night rooms are dungeons from five to seven steps under ground. They sleep on thick mats; which, if coverlids were added, would be better than straw. The whole close and offensive. Court-yard small. No Chapel. Two rooms lately built for an Infirmary: but the situation of the Gaol is so confined, that it cannot be made convenient or healthy. In 1774 three Debtors and a Felon died of the Small-Pox. Of that disease I was informed few ever recover in this Gaol.

Clauses of the Act against the use of Spirituous Liquors painted on the same board as the Table of Fees.

In this County they make an annual collection by a kind of Voluntary Brief. The Gentlemen of the Grand-Jury recommend it to the Clergy: most of whom promote the collection in their respective parishes. The thanks of the Grand Jury to forty-eight Clergymen by name, were inserted in the Leicester Journal of Feb. 16th 1775; for the satisfaction of those Gentlemen and other Contributors. There is a table of the sum received from each parish; and a List of Debtors

* This seems to be the low moist Dungeon that was complained of by a debtor in this Gaol, in his Letter 13th Nov. 1690 sent to Moses Pitt, a Prisoner in the Fleet; who printed it, with other Letters from Prisoners, in his Cry of the Oppressed 1691. By this and one or two more of the Letters in that little Tract, it appears that some inconveniences which I observed in Gaols, and have set down in my Remarks, are of long standing.

278 LEICESTERSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

cloathed or discharged; and an account of the expenditure of the remainder in feeding and warming all the Prisoners in the inclement season. The collections in 1774 amounted to £74. The accounts are kept, and the application of the money is chiefly directed by John Simpson, Esq. of Leicester. I wish every County would imitate this exemplary benevolence: and I wish every County that does so, a Steward equally faithful and assiduous.

Leicestershire.

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Keeper of this Gaol.

£. S. D.

For lodging of every Prisoner per week — 0: 2: 4

For Gaol-Fees for discharge of every Prisoner — 0: 13: 4

For the Turnkey — 0: 2: 0

A Room of every Prisoner who finds his own bed per week — 0: 1: 0

A Room, called the Cellar, for debtors if they find their own bed — 0: 0: 0

For the Copy of every Warrant or Commitment — 0: 1: 0

For signing the Certificate in order to obtain a Supersedeas — 0: 1: 0

Thomas a Becket Session. July 10. 1759.

We whose names are hereunto subscribed his Majesty's Justices of the Peace in and for the County of Leicester do hereby allow of the above Fees being taken.

We the Judges of Assize for the County of Leicester have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above Table of Fees. Given under our Hands this 17th day of August 1759

Wm. Wrighte

Ch. Hutchinson

John Danvers

W. Cant

The above is a Copy of the Original.

Midland Circuit. LEICESTERSHIRE. 279

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

LEICESTER. Two rooms below for men: two above for women; one of these not used, because not secure. No chimneys. Court-yard not safe for Prisoners to be allowed the use of it. The Prison is kept clean. Keeper's Salary £21: he pays Window-tax £0: 14: 0. No allowance. I saw none at work.

1775, Jan. 3, Prisoners 3,

1776, Oct. 29, Prisoners 2.

MELTON-MOWBRAY. Two rooms about eleven feet by nine. The loft above is a malt chamber, let by the Keeper for 10s. 6d. a year. Salary £4. He pays twenty-five shillings a year for the cottage he now lives in. The County is building him a little dwelling of two rooms. — No court-yard nor any room for one. No water.

1776, Sep. 25, Prisoners none.

HINKLEY. This Prison has a work-room; a lodging-room for men; another for women; both of them small. Mats upon bed-steads. Keeper's Salary £4: 4: 0. Fees £0: 2: 6: no Table. He is also master of the Work-house adjoining; in which the poor looked healthy, were cheerful, clean, and at work.

1776, Oct. 30, No Prisoners.

280 LEICESTERSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

LEICESTER BOROUGH and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Henry Coulson, now Samuel Jordan.

Salary, none: he pays rent £3.

Fees.

Transports, £10 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors } two-pence a day each in bread.

Felons, }

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 4: 6.

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, April 4, - 5 - 5,

1775, Jan. 3, - 1 - 2,

1775, Nov. 11, - 1 - 0,

1776, Oct. 29, - 1 - 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Maule.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

Midland Circuit. LEICESTERSHIRE. 281

LEICESTER TOWN GAOL.

[Remarks.]

A COMMON Day-room or Kitchen: two rooms above for such as pay. Down five steps a Dungeon for Men-felons; another for Women; another for Common-side Debtors. This Town Gaol has a Court-yard with plenty of water. No Table of Fees. Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

TOWN BRIDEWELL.

Joins to the Town Gaol. Two small rooms for men, and two for women. Keeper's Salary £1 : 13 : 4.

1776, Oct. 29, No Prisoners.

282 DERBYSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at DERBY.

GAOLER, Blyth Simpson.

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, } £0 : 17 : 4.

Felons, } £0 : 17 : 4.

Transports, £5: 17: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } per week, each two ninepenny loaves; and in common two Cwt. of coals.

Felons, }

Garnish, £0 : 3 : 6, and £0 : 1 : 2 for coals &c.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 18, - 4 - 3,

1774, April 2, - 8 - 10,

1775, Nov. 13, - 12 - 8,

1776, Oct. 29, - 10 - 7.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Seal, now the Rev. Mr. Henry.

Duty — Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.

Salary, £30.

SURGEON, Mr. Harrison.

Salary, £30 for Debtors, Felons, and the Bridewell. Three guineas for Travelling Charges to Quarter Sessions, to report the Rate of the health of the Prisoners.

Midland Circuit. DERBYSHIRE. 283

DERBY.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, built about eighteen years ago, is in an airy healthy situation. — The Debtors Court-yard and Ward very properly separate from those for Felons, but not from the Bridewell. The Debtors floors are tarras, not easily washed. The windows in general too small. — The Bridewell, in the Debtors court, has a large workroom, a lodging-room for men, and two for women. Mr. Simpson is Keeper: Salary £40, deducing £14 for the former Keeper. — In the Felons Court there is for men a day-room, and down three steps a dungeon: for women a day-room, and two small night-rooms; the latter are too close. — A neat Chapel, and near it a new Bath: Prisoners wash in it before Assize and Quarter Sessions: a Copper just by to warm the water in winter. — Over those are two rooms for an Infirmary. — There is also a new room or parlour at the Keeper's house with windows to the Felons court: this circumstance keeps them quiet and orderly. The County allows eight guineas a year for Straw.

Mr. Simpson observed to me very judiciously, that "Licences in Gaols occasion much disorder.”

A person goes round the County about Christmas to Gentlemen's houses, and begs for the Debtors. He carries a book, in which the Giver enters his name, and donation. The whole amount generally about £14.

284 DERBYSHIRE. Midland Circuit,

TABLE OF FEES.

Derbyshire, to wit.

AT the General Quarter Sessions — held at Bakewell — on Tuesday the first week after the translation of St. Thomas the Martyr (to wit) the 10th — July — 4th year of — George III. — 1764, before the Rev. Sir John Every, Bart. the Rev. John Simpson, Clerk, Philip Cell, John Twigg, Henry Thornhill, and Joseph Briggs, Esquires, Justices &c.

Leonard Fosbrooke, Esq. Sheriff.

It is ordered — that the following — Fees — be taken by the Keeper — and no other.

£. S. D.

For the lodging of every Prisoner in his house per week - 0 : 2 : 6

For the discharge of each Prisoner out of custody - 0 : 13 : 4

To the Turnkey - 0 : 2 : 0

For the copy of every Warrant - 0 : 1 : 0

For signing a Certificate, in order to obtain a Supersedeas - 0 : 2 : 0

For registering each declaration - 0 : 1 : 0

For attending with every Prisoner in order to give bail or be otherwise discharged - 0 : 2 : 0

And it is further ordered, that the Clerk of the Peace do cause this Order to be printed, and the Keeper of the Gaol for the time being do observe the same upon pain of being prosecuted according to law.

By the Court, Heathcote Clerk of the Peace

We the Judges of Assize for the County of Derby have reviewed and do hereby confirm the above written Table of Fees. Given under our hands at the Assizes holden at Derby the 11th day of August 1764.

T. PARKER

E. CLIVE.

Midland Circuit. DERBYSHIRE. 285

DERBY TOWN GAOL

Is also the Bridewell. Two rooms for Debtors; one for Felons; three for Petty Offenders. Prisoners always locked up: the narrow court or passage, only thirty-four feet by seven, not being secure, is of little use but for the Keeper's fowls. The whole dirty and offensive. Gaoler has a garden behind the Prison. No Salary as Gaoler: as Keeper of Bridewell £5. Fees, Debtors 6s. 8d. Felons 3s. 6d. No Table. Garnish 3s. 6d. on a paper in the Debtors kitchen. Allowance to Felons one shilling and six-pence weekly in bread. Licence for Beer.

1776, Oct. 29, Debtors 2, Felons &c. 2.

Another County Bridewell at

CHESTERFIELD. This House, given, as I was informed, to the County for a Bridewell, was built in 1614. For men, a room or cellar under the Keeper's house; down eight steps; but level with the ground behind it: provision generally put through a hole in the floor. A room for women up stairs. No court-yard: no water: no straw. Nothing allowed by the County for Conveyance to Quarter Sessions. Keeper's Salary £20. No fees: no allowance: no employment.

1776, Jan. 10, Prisoners 2;

1776, Oct. 28, Prisoners 1.

286 DERBYSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

CHESTERFIELD GAOL,

For the Hundred of Scarsdale, is the property of the Duke of Portland; to whom, or to his Steward, the Gaoler pays £18 : 12 : 0 a year. — Only one room with a cellar under it; to which the Prisoners occasionally descend through a hole in the floor. The cellar had not been cleaned for many months. The Prison-door had not been opened for several weeks, when I was there first. There were four Prisoners, who told me they were almost starved: one of them said, with tears in his eyes, "he had not eaten a morsel that day;” it was afternoon. Their meagre sickly countenances confirmed what they said. They had borrowed a book of Dr. Manton's; one of them was reading it to the rest. Each of them had a wife; and they had in the whole thirteen children, cast on their respective parishes. Two had their groats from the Creditors; and out of that pittance they relieved the other two. No allowance: no straw: no firing: water a halfpenny for about three gallons, put in (as other things are) at the window. — Gaoler lives distant.

1776, Jan. 10, Debtors 4,

1776, Oct. 28, Debtors 1.

Midland Circuit. NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. 287

COUNTY GAOL at NOTTINGHAM.

GAOLER, Richard Bonington.

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, } £0 : 14 : 8

Felons, }

Transports, £7 : 17 : 6 each.

Licence for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, of late three-halfpennyworth of bread a day.

Felons, three-halfpennyworth of bread and a halfpenny in money every day (weight of threepenny Loaf in Jan. 1775, 1 lb. 14½ oz.).

Garnish, lately prohibited.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 17, - 4 - 12,

1774, April 3, - 12 - 2,

1775, Jan. 4, - 10 - 1,

1775, Nov. 12, - 4 - 11,

1776, Sep. 25, - 4 - 10.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Anderson.

Duty — Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Betteson.

Salary, £20 for Debtors and Felons.

288 NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

NOTTINGHAM.

[Remarks.]

THE GAOL is on the side of a hill. For Master's side Debtors three rooms. Down about twenty-five steps, are three rooms for Criminals who can pay. Down twelve steps more are deep dungeons, cut in the sandy rock, very damp: only one of them is used; it is twenty-one feet by thirteen, and seven feet high: the straw on barrack-beds.

For Bathing here is (not, as in most other County Gaols, an inconvenient and almost useless Tub — but) a large and very commodious Bath, supplied with river water; and a Copper just by, to warm it when necessary. This Bath is a late improvement; and so is the Infirmary, near it, which has two rooms. The Act for preserving the Health of Prisoners is neatly painted over the Keeper's door.

The Justices have allowed the Gaoler to supply the sick with better nourishment &c. to the amount of seven shillings a week. Gentlemen so remarkably considerate and humane will, I hope, abolish the unwholesome Dungeon.

No Chapel. Service is performed in a parlour, which is too small.

Transports condemned at Assizes have, with the King's allowance of two shillings and six-pence a week, the County-bread.

Here (as at Derby) a man goes round the County about Christmas, and begs at Gentlemen's houses for the Debtors. He carries a book, and Gentlemen write in it their names and donations. Amount, the two last years £62. Charge of collecting £18.

Midland Circuit. NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. 289

Prisoners are tried in cloaths provided for that purpose by the County.

In the account lately sent up to London of Transports in this Gaol, was one William Berks. This man obtained his Majesty's pardon. Mr. Francis Waters, Clerk of Assize, in his letter sent with the pardon, charges

State Office Fees - £1 : 7 : 6,

My Fees - 1 : 7 : 8.

For these and the Gaol Fees the pardoned Criminal was detained at my last visit.

TABLE OF FEES.

Nottinghamshire.

AT the Quarter Sessions held at the Shire-Hall 14th January 1760.

£. S. D.

For lodging and board of each Prisoner per week - 0: 7: 0

For each Prisoner when he hath a room and bed of the Gaoler and diets himself, by the week — 0: 2: 0

For each Prisoner when he finds his own bed and diet per week 0: 0: 6

For the discharge of each Prisoner — 0: 13: 4

And to the Turnkey for the same — 0: 1: 4

The Gaoler is to take notice if he takes more than the above Sums he is liable to forfeit to the party aggrieved for each offence the sum of fifty pounds exclusive of the penalties inflicted by former Acts.

290 NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

We direct the Deputy Clerk of the Peace betwixt now and the next Sessions to put Copies of this Table in the respective Courts within this County where the General Quarter Sessions are held, and also in some conspicuous open place within the said Gaol in order that the same may be inspected as occasions may require to be resorted to at all seasonable times in the day time without paying any thing for the same

M. Musters

W. Bilbie 

H. Sherbrooke

J White

Wm. Kirke

Geo. Mason.

Having reviewed the above Table of Fees I do hereby confirm the same. Witness my hand the 26th day of March 1760

H. BATHURST.

John Hurst Deputy Clerk of the Peace.

[Nottinghamshire.]

A Table of the several Gifts Legacies and Bequests — for the benefit — of poor Prisoners in the common Gaol of this County as settled by us his Majesty's Justices of the Peace — this 18th day of Jan. 1760. Pursuant to the late Act of Parliament and according to the belt information we can get, as follows.

By John Sherwin Esq. of Nottingham, the yearly Sum of Four Pounds, paid quarterly out of an Estate at Bramscote, in this County, purchased by Mr. Sherwin's Father of some of the Defendants of Henry Handley Esq. who left this Charity.

Midland Circuit. NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. 291

By Abel Smith Esq. of Nottingham, pursuant to the directions of the Will of Mr. Abel Callings deceased, four shillings monthly for Coals for the Prisoners.

We are informed that forty shillings a year, was formerly left by some of the family of — Hutchinson Esquire. But that the Prisoners have not received the same these twenty years past.

We do not know of any other Gifts, Legacies, or Bequests, except the General Collection made in the County for the Prisoners every Christmas.

We order this Table to be transmitted to the Deputy Clerk of the Peace for this County, to be entered among the Rolls of the Sessions, and Copies thereof to be made and hung up by him in the respective Courts, where the General Quarter Sessions are held — there to remain and be inspected. — And also to cause another Copy — to be transmitted to the Keeper of the said Gaol to be forthwith hung up by him there, in some public place, and in a conspicuous manner, — so as the Prisoners may have free resort thereto, at all seasonable times in the day time, without paying any thing for the same.

M. Musters

W. Bilbie

H. Sherbrooke

A. C. Stanhope

J. White

Wm. Kirke

Geo. Mason.

A true Copy examined with the Original by me

John Hurst.

292 NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

Remarks.

NOTTINGHAM TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Richard Bonington, the County Gaoler.

Salary, £8.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 8: 0 if under £10.

0: 14: 8 if from any Court in London.

Felons, 0: 14: 8.

Transports, £7: 17: 6 each.

Licence, see County Gaol.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, three-halfpence in bread, a day.

Garnish, lately prohibited.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 17, - 5 - 2,

1775, Jan. 4, - 3 - 0,

1775, Nov. 12, - 5 - 2,

1776, Sep. 25. - 0 - 0.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None stated. The Mayor orders one when wanted.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL has been lately repaired and much improved. Three rooms on the ground-floor, two chambers, and two garrets: a back-court well supplied with water. Debtors have from a Legacy

Midland Circuit. NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. 293

one shilling a week for coals. Collected in the Town for Prisoners the last two years £8.

NOTTINGHAM TOWN BRIDEWELL.

Two rooms: no fire-place: a dungeon down nine steps. No court-yard, although there is ground before and behind the house. No sewer. Water in a kitchen, where there is a bed for Prisoners who can pay two-pence a night. Keeper's Salary £8.

1776, Sep. 25, Prisoners none.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SOUTHWELL.

This is also used as a Prison for those Manors in this County which belong to the Archbishop of York.

In front is a room on the ground-floor, in which were two men: one of them sentenced for three years, the other for seven: — and a dungeon about fourteen feet square, down ten steps. The date on this part is 1656. — In the back-court is a new building with two rooms on the ground-floor, and two above: one of the latter is an Infirmary. No pump in this court: no sewer: Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. — Apothecary Mr. Richardson; he makes a bill. — Allowance three-halfpennyworth of bread. A threepenny loaf weighed 1lb. 5¼oz. at my first visit; at my last 2 lb. — No employment. — Keeper's Salary £45: Fees 3s. 6d. no Table.

He informed me that a few years ago, seven died here of the Gaol-Fever within two years.

1775, Jan. 4, Prisoners 9,

1776, Sep. 24, - 13.

294 NOTTINGHAMSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

NEWARK UPON Trent TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms; the largest, up stairs, twelve feet by eleven. No court-yard: no water: no sewer. Keeper lives at a little distance: no Salary: Fees four shillings: no Table. Allowance three-halfpence a day: no straw. Among the various Improvements that are making in this Town, I hope the Corporation will think of a better Prison.

1776, Sep. 23, Prisoners 2.

BASFORD PRISON, for debtors.

This is his Majesty's Gaol or Prison of the Court of Record of his Honour of Peverel and additional Limits of the same in the Counties of Nottingham and Derby. One room with three beds. The Keeper said he had another little room for Women-prisoners; but that, having now none of that sex, he made use of it for his servants. The House is his Freehold. Fees 13s. 4d. by a Court-roll. — The Debts from forty shillings to fifty pounds.

1776, Sep. 24, Prisoners 3.

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE. 295

COUNTY GAOL, LINCOLN CASTLE.

GAOLER, Isaac Wood.

Salary, none. But £154 a year to supply Prisoners as below; and to pay Land-tax &c. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 14: 4.

Felons, }

Transports, £8: 8: 0 for each: and 13s. 4d. see Table of Fees.

He pays the Clerk of Assize a guinea for each.

Licence for Beer: which the Gaoler brews. He lets the Tap.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, if certified as in Remarks, same as Felons.

Felons, each weekly 81b. bread, and 2d. for beef: in common yearly £2, for coals: £2, straw: and £2, oatmeal.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Jan. 27, - 22 - 11,

1774, Oct. 29, - 14 - 9,

1776, Jan. 31, - 23 - 18,

1776, Sep. 23, - 12 - 3-

CHAPLAINS, Rev. Mr. Simpson; and Dr. Waldgrave by his Curate the Rev. Mr. Welling.

Duty — Mr. Simpson Wednesday and Friday; Mr. Welling Sunday.

Salary, Mr. Simpson £5 &c. see Remarks; Dr. Waldgrave about £35 per Legacy of Rebecca Hussey.

SURGEON, Mr. Parnall.

Salary, £20.

296 LINCOLNSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

LINCOLN CASTLE

[Remarks.]

BELONGS to the Duchy of Lancaster. The County pays ten shillings a year. The Gaoler, per contract, to keep it in repair. — A spacious Area of six or seven acres. On the ground-floor are the Gaoler's apartments, the Tap-room &c.

For Master's-side Debtors, six sizeable rooms on the first story; and as many garrets. The floors of both stories are tarras, and cannot be kept clean: the passages only six feet wide, with windows close glazed.

The free ward for Debtors is only a room at the end of the building, down two steps. It is paved with small stones, and is a thoroughfare to sundry places. First, by a trap-door in the said pavement you go down ten steps to two vaulted dungeons for Criminals, eight feet high; one, the Pit, fourteen feet by twenty-one, window two feet by fourteen inches; the other, within it, the Condemned Cell, fourteen feet by eight; window about nine inches by eighteen: a little short straw on the floors: both dungeons dirty and offensive. — You also pass through it to the Women-felons ward which joins to it and is eleven feet by eight: — and to the Felons small court-yard, and their sizeable day-room, fifteen feet by nineteen: no water: no sewer: — and to a room for the closer confinement of Debtors who do not behave well.

There are two rooms with beds for Felons who can pay for them. To these you go another way.

No Chapel: Service is performed in the Shire-Hall. No Infirmary. — The whole Prison is out of repair. — Perhaps because the County designs to build a new one.

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE. 297

Mr. Wood, besides the fore-mentioned articles of his contract, is to furnish his Prisoners with pails, and other utensils, to amount of £3 a year; and to pay yearly to Prisoners in the King's Bench and Marshalsea, two guineas; all out of his £154.

In order to a Debtor's being admitted to County Allowance, it is required that he produce a Certificate of his poverty signed by the Minister, Churchwardens and Overseers of his Parish.

Mr. Simpson's Salary £5 is from a Legacy of Thomas Hazledine; and for attending condemned Criminals he has five guineas from the Sheriff.

Rebecca Hussey by her Will, proved in London 10th May 1715, bequeathed the Interest of £1000 to release poor Debtors from this Castle but no Debtors have received the benefit for many years past. — Thomas Hazledine left to the Prisoners £3 a year payable from the Rent of a House in Lincoln. — There is not in the Gaol any Memorial of Bequests.

On a Tomb-stone in the Cathedral, is an Inscription, noting that Clement Wood interred there, was thirty-three years Gaoler of the Castle, and of the City Gaol.

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of the Gaol for the County of Lincoln — and rules for government — settled pursuant to a late Act for Relief of Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

Every Prisoner shall pay to the Gaoler at his first coming into Gaol six shillings and eight-pence — 0: 6: 8

298 LINCOLNSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

£. S. D.

Every Prisoner that will lodge in any chamber in the house shall pay to the Gaoler for his bed weekly — 0: 1: 3

If he will have the whole bed to himself, to pay weekly — 0: 2: 6

But if two or more Debtors lie in the same bed then to be paid amongst them weekly — 0: 2: 6

And that the four chambers on the first floor shall be held and kept for such only as board in the house.

Every Prisoner for Debt to pay but one Fee to the Gaoler for his discharge out of the Prison though he stands committed in several actions, and the Fee to be no more than six shillings and eight-pence — 0: 6: 8

To the Turnkey on the said discharge, one shilling — 0: 1: 0

Every Felon to pay to the Gaoler upon his Discharge out of Prison thirteen shillings and four-pence — 0: 13: 4

To the Turnkey on the said discharge, one shilling — 0: 1: 0

The Gaoler having the care of the Felons condemned for Transportation, sometimes three months, sometimes six months, and often longer, to be paid for each Felon by the Treasurer out of the County-money when he is taken out of Gaol thirteen shillings and four-pence — 0: 13: 4

Every Prisoner committed from the Bar, by the Judge of Assize or Sessions to pay to the Gaoler for his Discharge thirteen shillings and four-pence — 0: 13: 4

Every Prisoner that will eat at the first table to pay five shillings a week to the Gaoler for his lodging and diet having three meals a day — 0: 5: 0

If he eats at the second table then he shall pay but four shillings a week for his diet and lodging — 0: 4: 0

Every Debtor that lies in the common Grate may provide himself with a bed, bedding and sheets and pursuant to the Act have necessaries of life from any place — between six in the morning and six at night from Lady-day to Michaelmas — between eight and four from Michaelmas to Lady-day — no more than one quart of Ale a day — brought in to one Prisoner, to prevent disturbance &c.

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE. 299

Every Debtor — whom two Justices — adjudge necessitous* — and every Felon shall have 8 lb. weight of wholesome household bread, and †1lb. weight of beef delivered to them weekly.

Every Debtor shall quietly — go to his chamber, between Lady-day and Michaelmas at nine in the evening — and between Michaelmas and Lady-day at eight and no later; whosoever shall refuse — shall on proof be deprived of his beef and bread by a Justice for a time at discretion.

If any Gaoler, Turnkey or other Officer, or any Prisoner — require any — money from a new-come Prisoner — either for garnish money, chamber-money — cards — seeing Lusey Tower — or any other account whatsoever. Shall — if a Prisoner lose his allowance for a time at the discretion of a Justice — if the Gaoler &c. be punished as an extortioner according to Law.

If the Gaoler or any of his sub-officers shall at any time from hence think it safe to take off any Felon's Irons, if a common Felon he shall pay the sum of two shillings and six-pence a week and no more — If a Gentleman or better sort of Criminal then he shall take the sum of five shillings per week and no more‡.

Any person removed by Habeas Corpus to pay the same Fees as other Prisoners when discharged.

A Prisoner making water — so as to annoy — or washing hands in the bucket — to lose his allowance for a time &c.

We his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the division of Lindsey in the County of Lincoln. Assembled — at Spilsby have examined the above Table of Fees with the Rules and Orders — and do allow and confirm the same — the 12th day of April 1768

Ric Wright

W Marshall

Ed Wills

Wm. Massingberd

H: Best.

* See Remarks preceding.

† Instead of this they have two-pence.

‡ This Order being somewhat singular I have transcribed it verbatim.

300 LINCOLNSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

We his Majesty's Justices — for the division of Kesteven — assembled — at Sleaford — do allow and confirm the same — 13th April 1768

John Thorald

Robt.Burne 

Ded Jones

Leo: Brown.

We his Majesty's Justices — for the Division of Holland — assembled — at Boston — do allow and confirm the same — 14th July 1768

Ri Falkner

H. B. Pacey

Ri Fydell

J Linton Junr.

J Calthorp.

We the Judges of Assize for the County of Lincoln have reviewed the above Table of Fees with the Rules and Orders therein contained, and do hereby confirm the same. Witness our hands this 25th day of July 1768

T. PARKER

E. CLIVE.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

GAINSBOROUGH. Three rooms: a small yard: no water: no straw: no allowance: no work. Conveyance to Quarter Sessions at Keeper's expence. His Salary £30. No Fees. — Might be improved on the Keeper's garden.

1776, Jan. 30, Prisoners 3.

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE. 310

FOKINGHAM. Damp rooms: no chimney: small yard: no pump: no sewer. Yet the Keeper said a woman with a child at her breast was sent hither for a year and a day: the child died. Conveyance to Quarter Sessions at Keeper's expence.

1774, Oct. 28, Prisoners 4.

SPALDING. This Prison, lately built, has several sizeable airy rooms thirteen feet by ten: chimneys in some of them. A work-room twenty-eight feet by nine and three-quarters. The under-rooms vaulted, twelve feet and a half by nine and a half. No yard: no water accessible to Prisoners. When they work they have three-fourths of the profit; Turnkey, the remainder. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up: — as also is the late Act for preserving the Health of Prisoners; neatly painted on a small board. — Keeper's Salary £38: Fees 5s. no Table. — He told me that in the last six years he had 236 Prisoners.

1776, Feb. 2, Prisoners 4.

STAMFORD TOWN GAOL.

The Gate which was the old Prison and Town-Hall is taken down. The only room now made use of is in the Gaoler's house, which joined to the gate. — There is a new Prison building behind the new Town-Hall. The part of it that is finished has — two cells, about twelve feet by eight: the window in each only two feet by four inches and a half; — and a Bridewell-room sixteen feet by eight feet three inches: the window here also too small, two feet by one foot eight inches.

302 LINCOLNSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

Allowance to Felons two-pence a day. Salary as Gaoler £4: as Keeper £3: 6: 8: Fees, see Table; which, though not signed, I transcribe for the singularity of an article or two.

Debtors. - Felons &c.

1776, Feb. 10, - 0 - 1.

1776, Sep. 26, - 0 - 2.

[The Town or Borough of Stamford in the County of Lincoln.]

A TABLE of FEES settled &c. — at the Quarter Sessions held by Adjournment 28th August 1729 &c.

£. S. D.

For every Arrest upon Bail — 0: 10: 0

For waiting for Bail one shilling per hour

Bail Fees to the Gaol — 0: 6: 0

For diet each day, if not find themselves — 0: 1: 0

For lodging each night, if not find themselves — 0: 0: 4

If they find themselves bedding, then for cleaning the room each week — 0: 1: 0

For Felons &c. that lie on the Common-side,

For Gaoler's Fees for the Gaol — 0: 10: 0

To the Smith ironing and taking off — 0: 2: 0

Lodging for each night — 0: 0: 2

To the person who executes sentence of pillory, burning in the hand, or whipping — 0: 1: O

To the Keeper of the House of Correction for every person that is committed for the first night — 0: 0: 6

Every day that person continues in custody for attendance — 0: 0: 1

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE. 303

LINCOLN CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Francis Toyn.

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 6: 8.

Felons, }

Transports, £10 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, one shilling a week.

Garnish, one shilling.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Jan. 27, - 3 - 2,

1776, Jan. 31, - 0 - 1,

1776, Sep. 23, - 0 - 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, near the Gate, has one large room for Men-debtors, one smaller for Women, both up stairs: in each a fire-place. The rooms for Criminals are two dungeons down three steps; with bedfteads; that they may not deep on the damp earth-floor. In one

304 LINCOLNSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

of them is a cage for closer confinement when necessary. These Prisoners are sometimes taken into the Keeper's house. No courtyard: no water accessible to Prisoners. No straw.

[City of Lincoln and County of the same City,]

A Table of — rates and fees — settled by the Justices — at a General Quarter Sessions — held at the Guild-Hall — within the first whole week next after the Translation of St. Thomas the Martyr to wit, on the 14th day of July in the 33d — of George II — 1759 pursuant to — an Act for Relief of Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

Every Debtor that lies in a bed belonging to the Keeper is to pay one shilling weekly and no more — 0: 1: 0

Any Debtor that finds a bed and places it in the Common a Room is to pay nothing for his lodging — 0: 0: 0

Every Prisoner for Debt is to pay one Fee to the Keeper for his Discharge out of Prison though he stands committed in several Actions and that Fee no more than six shillings and eight-pence — 0: 6: 8

Every Felon is to pay to the Gaoler for his Discharge out of Prison six shillings and eight-pence and no more — 0: 6: 8

If not continued in Prison above a week then to pay only-three shillings and four-pence — 0: 3: 4

Every Prisoner that will eat with the Gaoler is to pay for his lodging and diet weekly four shillings and six-pence having three meals a day — 0: 4: 6

Midland Circuit. LINCOLNSHIRE. 305

£. S. D.

Every Prisoner committed from the Bar by the Judge of Assize or Sessions is to pay the Gaoler for his Discharge three shillings and four pence and no more — 0: 3: 4

Rob. Obbinson Mayor

Jno. Hooton

Robt. Thickston

Jno. Davies

Ger. Gibson

Ewd. Fowlir

John Wilson

Edwd. Letherland

Robt. Drewry

John Brown

Broxm. Brown

We the Judges of Assize for the City of Lincoln and County of the same City have reviewed this Table of Fees and do hereby confirm the same, Given under our Hands this 9th day of August 1759

T PARKER

JA HEWITT

Examined by Josp. Peart

Clerk of the Peace

306 RUTLANDSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at OAKHAM.

GAOLER, William Lumley, now Henry Lumley.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 14: 10.

Felons, }

Transports, £10 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } two sixpenny loaves a week.

Felons, }

Garnish, one shilling.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Jan. 23, - 0 - 0,

1775, Nov. 10, - 1 - 2,

1776, Sep. 26, - 0 - 0.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Bullivant.

Salary, £5: 5: 0.

Midland Circuit. RUTLANDSHIRE, 307 

OAKHAM.

[Remarks.]

THIS is also the county Bridewell and the Town Gaol; yet I found it twice empty. On the ground-floor is a day-room or kitchen for Debtors: — a day-room, and two small night-rooms for Felons; one of which being very small and quite close, the Gaoler has made apertures in the door, one at top, the other at bottom: — and a large work-room. 

Up stairs are two rooms strongly planked with oak: in each of them are two beds. 

The Felons court-yard is lately parted off with strong wooden palisades; which intercepting the pump, the Justices have been so considerate as to put down another pump in the Felons court. They have also ordered the Gaoler to provide some cloathing for the most destitute Prisoners. His Salary as Keeper of the Bridewell is £20. No Table of Fees. 

The present Gaoler's Father, Grandfather and Great Grandfather held the same office. 

308 NORTHAMPTONSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at NORTHAMPTON.

GAOLER, John Scofield.

Salary, none: he pays the County £40 a year.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 15: 4.

Felons, }

Transports, If two £7 each; if more £6: 16: 6 each.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two-pennyworth of bread a day (weight Jan. 1775, 1 lb. 1½oz.).

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 6: 0,

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 15, - 9 - 8,

1774, April 5, - 6 - 4,

1775, Jan. 2, - 8 - 7,

1776, Jan. 5, - 7 - 12.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Miller.

Duty — Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Kerr, } Salary, none. They make a Bill.

APOTHECARY, Mr. Breton. }

Midland Circuit. NORTHAMPTONSHIRE. 309

NORTHAMPTON.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is also the County Bridewell; but Petty Offenders are kept separate from Felons. Mr. Scofield has a Salary of £36: 10: 0 as Keeper. Two court-yards; but that for Felons is too close. No straw. The County have lately built seven commodious rooms, for one Felon each: yet there is still a dungeon eleven steps under ground, which might have been disused if they had doubled the number of the new rooms. There is ground enough in the Keeper's yard or garden.

The Chapel is the upper room in the Gaoler's house. — It is painful for Prisoners loaded with irons to go up and down the stairs.

No Table of Fees.

NORTHAMPTON TOWN GAOL.

No yard: no water — So the Prisoners told me at the large grate, where I could see the room; into which, for that reason, I happened not to go. — I mention this circumstance because it occurred no where else.

1776, Jan. 5, Prisoners 2.

DAVENTRY GAOL.

Close rooms. No yard: no water.

1776, Jan. 5, No Prisoners.

310 NORTHAMPTONSHIRE. Midland Circuit.

PETERBOROUGH GAOL,

For the Liberty called the Soke, which contains thirty-two towns, is the property of Lord Exeter. It is now also the Prison of the Dean and Chapter of the Cathedral Church of the Borough of St. Peter otherwise Peterborough.

Two rooms for Debtors, and down three steps a room called the Gaol; in which is the condemned room: the Court having power of life and death. A Malefactor was executed here about two years ago. No allowance. Keeper's Salary £12: Fees 7s. 8d. the Table neither signed nor dated. He pays Window-tax £1: 5: 6.

1774, Oct. 28, Debtors 2,

1776, Sep. 26, Debtors 3, Deserter 1.

PETERBOROUGH BRIDEWELL,

For the Soke, as above, has on the ground-floor a large workshop, and a room lately divided into a part for men, and another for women. — Up stairs, two rooms or hemp-warehouses: the Keeper a hemp-dresser. A very small court-yard; not secure: Prisoners always within doors. No water. Keeper's Salary £8: Fees 3s. 6d. no Table.

1774, Oct. 28, Prisoner 1,

1776, Sep. 26, - 1.

Oxford Circuit. BERKSHIRE. 311

COUNTY GAOL at READING.

GAOLER, The Widow Wiseman, now John Hill.

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 16: 10,

Felons, 0: 14: 4.

Transports, £2: 1: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, three-pence a day each.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 5: 6,

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Dec. 11, - 11 - 11,

1774, July 29, - 10 - 6,

1776, Jan. 1, - 9 - 15.

1776, Nov. 1, - 3 - 8.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Webster.

Duty — Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary, £31: 10: 0.

SURGEON, Mr. Tylleard.

Salary, £10 for Gaol and Bridewell.

[Remarks.]

DEBTORS and Felons have their court-yards separated by iron rails. — The former have a kitchen: and for the Master's-side many

312 BERKSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

[Reading.]

rooms; but no free ward. — Felons have a day-room for men and women. The night-room for men is a large dungeon down four steps: the Prisoners broke out lately. A separate night-room for women. — The Turnkey has now a lodging-room, over the Felons dungeon, with an alarm bell: so that an escape will be more difficult. There is lately fitted up a small room for an Infirmary; and another room or two: but no provision made for separating Men-felons at night; nor for Common-side Debtors. There is a room used for the Gaoler's poultry. — Transports have not the King's allowance of two shillings and six-pence a week. No Table of Fees. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. No straw.

About six years ago a Gentleman sent to this Gaol for the Prisoners thirty-six rugs or coverlids: moil of them now worn out.

When Felons come to this Prison, they are stripped and washed; and then they put on cloaths provided by the County. The men have a Russia-drab coat and breeches, a flannel waistcoat, two check shirts, and two pair of yarn hose. The women, a linsey woolsey gown and petticoat, a flannel petticoat, two dowlass shifts, two pair of yarn hose. Their own cloaths are ticketed and hung up till the Quarter Sessions or Assizes; when they put them on again to appear in on trial. Afterwards the County-cloaths are washed, mended, and purified in an oven, for the use of future Criminals. The cloathing aforesaid for twenty men and five women cost only £26: 6: 8.

The following Verses are written over the Debtor's grate to the street:

Oh Ye whose hours exempt from Sorrow flow,

Behold the feat of Pain and Want and Woe:

Think, while your hands th' entreated alms extend.

That what to Us ye give to God ye lend.

Oxford Circuit. BERKSHIRE. 313

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

READING. This is also the Town Bridewell. It was formerly a Church, and is a spacious room, with four small cabins on one side for night-rooms. No court-yard: no water: allowance three-pence a day. Keeper's Salary £18 from the County; £2 from the Town: Fees 4s. 4d. no Table: Licence for Beer: half the profit of the Prisoners work: £1 a year to find them straw.

1776, Jan. 1, Prisoners 6,

1776, Nov. 1, - 6.

At READING is also the

TOWN GAOL or Compter. Three rooms in a public house (the Reading Arms) belonging to the town. The eldest Sergeant has generally the refusal of it. No court-yard: no water. Felons allowance three pence a day. Keeper no Salary: Fees 4s. 4d. no Table.

1776, Nov. 1, Debtors 2.

314 BERKSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

ABINGDON. A day-room; and two dark offensive night-rooms; that for men eight feet square: the women's nine by seven and half; no chimney: no yard; no water. The Petty Offenders were in irons. One lately died of the Small-pox. Allowance three-pence a day. Keeper's Salary, £18: Fees 4s. 4d. No table. Half the profit of the Prisoners' work.

1776, Jan. 2, Prisoners 3.

WINDSOR CASTLE, for debtors.

I need not observe that his Majesty is Proprietor. The Duke of Montague is Constable; he appoints a Janitor with a salary: the Janitor appoints a Deputy, who for a house rent-free, and certain perquisites, does the duty. The Prison out of repair.

1776, March 1, Prisoners 2.

WINDSOR TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms: no chimney: no yard: no water. Keeper a Sergeant at Mace; no Salary; Fees 6s. 8d. Notable. Allowance threepence a day.

1776, March 1, Prisoners 3.

WALLINGFORD TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms: one of them is called the Bailiff's Ward. Under them is a large Dungeon, filled with market-benches, stalls &c.

1776, Nov. 1, Deserter 1.

Oxford Circuit. OXFORDSHIRE. 315

COUNTY GAOL, OXFORD CASTLE.

GAOLER, Solomon Wisdom,

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 9: 2,

Felons, 0: 15: 10.

Transports, He makes a Bill of the Expence.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, 16d. each per week in bread.

Garnish, lately cancelled.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 26, - 14 - 13,

1774, July 4, - 11 - 17,

1776, Jan. 2, - 13 - 10,

1776, Oct. 31, - 7 - 14.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Swinton.

Duty — Sunday, Wednesday, Friday; the Sacrament four times a year.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Rawlins.

Salary, £25 for Felons.

316 OXFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

OXFORD CASTLE.

[Remarks.]

FOR the Castle Gaol the County pays £40 a year to Mr. Etty, who holds it of Christ Church College on Lease. — Debtors apartments small; and not enough of them for the general number of Prisoners. No free ward: for lodging even in the Tower on their own beds they must pay 1s. 6d. a week: see the Table. Their court-yard is too small. — Felons day-room for men and women down five steps: the men's dungeon down five more; only a small window: the women's night-room very small; no window. The court-yard common to both; much too small. The Gaoler has a spacious garden.

This Prison is also the City Gaol: for which Mr. Wisdom has £5 a year. — In 1773 eleven died of the Small-Pox. In 1774 that distemper still in the Gaol: in 1775 one Debtor died of it in May; three Debtors and a Petty Offender in June: three recovered. No Infirmary: no straw.

Thomas Horde, who was confined here for some offence against Government, built the Chapel. After his discharge, he had bequeathed £14 a year for a Chaplain; and as much to the Prisoners. But finding some difficulties would obstruct the execution of that Bequest; he altered it, August 6th, 1709, to a Legacy of £24 a year to be distributed among Prisoners of both sorts, at £2 a month. For the Payment, he bound an Estate in Oxfordshire: and to make up any deficiency of that Estate, he bound an Estate in Berkshire. Yet the Prisoners have now only thirty-three shillings a month. A Memorial of the process and result of Mr. Horde's benevolent intention hangs up in the Gaol. I have a copy of it; too long to transcribe.

Oxford Circuit. OXFORDSHIRE. 317

There is another Legacy to Prisoners of both sorts; 8s. 8d. a year; paid quarterly by Mr. Hart of Oxford.

Debtors have in common every Saturday two shillings worth of meat; sent by a Gentleman of Christ Church College. From two other Colleges they have in bread about 2s. 4d. a week. Christ Church and New College send them broth; generally three times in a fortnight: the Prisoners pay four pence to the man who brings it.

Mr. Wisdom (the Gaoler) told me that about nine years ago, wanting to build a little hovel, and digging up stones for the purpose, from the ruins of the Court, which was formerly in the Castle, he found under them a complete skeleton with light chains on the legs; the links very small. These were, probably, the bones of a Malefactor who died in Court of the Distemper at the Black Assize mentioned page 17.

Oxfordshire, (TOWER) Michaelmas Sessions 34th George II. — 1760

A TABLE OF FEES — and chamber rent — settled. — in pursuance of an Act 32d of his present Majesty — for the Relief of Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

To the Master-Keeper for every Warrant charged upon any Debtor — 0: 6: 8

To the Under-keeper — 0: 2: 6

To him for every other Warrant — 0: 1: 0

318 OXFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

£. S. D.

To the Master-Keeper for every Prisoner committed by any Justice of Peace for Treason, Felony, or any other Misdemeanour; or committed in Court — 0: 13: 4

To the Under-keeper — 0: 2: 6

To the Master-keeper for receiving and entering every Declaration against any Debtor — 0: 2: 6

To his Certificate that no Declaration filed — 0: 1: 0

For a Copy of every Sheriff's Warrant — 0: 1: 0

For a Copy of every other Warrant — 0: 1: 6

Every Prisoner that lyeth in the great Chamber on the Gaol side in the Keeper's Lodgings pays by the week — 0: 2: 0

Every Prisoner that lyeth in any other Room or Chamber in the Keeper's Lodgings on the Gaol side payeth by the week — 0: 2: 6

Every Prisoner that lyeth in the Great Room in the Tower upon his own bed payeth by the week — 0: 1: 6

Every Prisoner that lyeth in the said Great Room on the Keeper's bed payeth by the week — 0: 1: 8

We — his Majesty's Justices of the Peace of the — County of Oxford (whereof some of us are of the Quorum) have perused the Fees and Chamber Rent above mentioned and do — allow thereof and direct the same to be hung up in a Table in some open and public room or place in the said Castle there to remain and be resorted to by every Prisoner as occasion shall require.

Thomas Blackall

Edd. Turner

Thos. Pardo

Anthony Keck

Theophilus Leigh

Thos. Hunt

Wm. Lenthal.

Oxford Circuit. OXFORDSHIRE. 319

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

THAME. I was informed that this House, built in 1708, was given to the County for a Bridewell: but the greatest part of it is now a Parish Work-house. For the Prison there is only left, up stairs, a common day-room, and a small insecure lodging-room: and down eleven steps a dungeon in which are two night-rooms, the Cubs, each nine feet by seven. — If the House was put into good repair, and the whole used as a Bridewell, it would be a commodious one. Then there would be no need of sending Petty Offenders, as is now done, to the County Gaol: nor of locking up all day long within doors those few that are committed hither, men and women in the same room: nor of confining either sex at night in the Cubs. No allowance: no employment: no water: no sewers. Keeper's Salary £16: Fees 4s. 6d. no Table.

The Keeper now farms the Work-house and the rest of the poor at £480 a year for the whole maintenance, cloathing, medicines &c.

1776, Jan. 3, Prisoners 2,

1776, Nov. 2, - 3.

WITNEY. One day-room about seventeen feet by fifteen for men and women: two night-rooms adjoining about nine feet by

320 OXFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

[Witney Bridewell.]

seven; with only a grate of about nine inches square in each door. The Prison is not secure. No allowance but to the sick, who have six-pence a day and medicines. No straw: no water. Keeper's Salary £20: Fees 4s. 2d. no Table.

The House does not belong to the County: it is in the

court-yard of the Keeper's public house, for which he pays £13: 7: 0 a year. Prisoners have no use of the court-yard; but their window is accessible to passengers. I saw a crowd of men talking at the grate with the Prisoners, who were all of them women; and was informed there is sometimes riot and confusion on such occasions.

To this Prison were committed.

In the year 1773, Prisoners 49,

1774, - 44,

1775, - 73,

To Oct. 31, 1776, - 67.

The most at any one time 18.

When I was there in 1776, Oct. 31, Prisoners 6.

Oxford Circuit. WORCESTERSHIRE. 321

COUNTY GAOL, WORCESTER CASTLE.

GAOLER, William Crane, now his Widow.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 9: 2,

Felons, 0: 15: 10.

Transports, No Benefit to the Gaoler. Clerk of Peace contracts with the Merchants.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, three-pennyworth of bread a day, each.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 23, - 15 - 17.

1774, July 2, - 13 - 12,

1775, Dec. 1, - 25 - 17,

1776, Sep. 10, - 9 - 10.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Taylor.

Duty — Friday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Hallward.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

322 WORCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

WORCESTER.

[Remarks.]

THE CASTLE-YARD is spacious: County Members are chosen in it. In the Gaoler's house are many good lodging-rooms for Master's-side Debtors; and two small day-rooms; one of these is used as a Chapel. — The free ward, or night-room for Debtors, is at another part of the yard. You go to it through the Women-felons night-room. The day-room for Men and Women-felons is in the middle of the area; only fourteen feet by twelve. Near it is a Hand-Ventilator for airing the Men-felons dungeon, which is twenty-six steps under ground, and circular, about seventeen feet diameter, with barrack-bedsteads. Over it is an aperture in the yard, with an iron grate. The Felons work the Ventilator cheerfully about a quarter of an hour before they go down, and as long when they come up; for it freshens and cools the dungeon amazingly: we could hardly keep our candle burning below while it was working. — Excellent water at a pump in the yard. Straw £4 a year. — No Infirmary. Mr. Hall-ward the Surgeon caught the Gaol-Fever some years ago, and has ever since been fearful of going into the dungeon: when any Felon is sick there, he orders him to be brought out. — The Gaoler pays near £4 Window-tax. — Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

This Prison may be made commodious by separate wards, yards &c. There is round it much ground belonging to the County.

Oxford Circuit. WORCESTERSHIRE. 323

[County of Worcester.]

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Gaoler of the said County pursuant to a Statute made in the second year of his Majesty King George the Second.

£. S. D.

For the discharge of every Debtor, to the Gaoler — 0: 6: 8

To the Turnkey — 0: 2: 6

For the discharge of every Felon, to the Gaoler — 0: 13: 4

To the Turnkey — 0: 2: 6

For the Discharge of every Deserter, to the Gaoler — 0: 6: 8

To the Turnkey — 0: 2: 6

For the lodging of every Prisoner in the house per week — 0: 2: 6

For signing every Certificate — 0: 1: 0

Allowed according to the said Statute by us

J Soley

W Bromley 

Fre Meysey.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WORCESTER.

This Prison joins to the Castle. It is too close; especially the men's night-room; which, though up stairs, has no window. Here are work-rooms; and I saw the Prisoners employed, beating hemp, spinning &c. — Two small Court-yards. These and the House might be enlarged on the County ground. — Keeper's Salary £20: Fees 1s. 4d. Straw fifteen shillings a quarter: no other allowance.

If there were a Chapel in the County Gaol (the Castle), these Prisoners might (as those in Shrewsbury Bridewell) have the privilege of Public Worship.

1775, Dec. 1, - Prisoners 3,

1776, Sep. 10, - 18.

324 WORCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

WORCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Richard George.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 9: 2,

Felons, 0: 5: 0.

Transports, No Benefit to the Gaoler.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, three pence a day each.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 23, - 4 - 5,

1775, Dec. 1, - 5 - 0,

1776, Sep. 10, - 4 - 0.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Hallward.

Salary, none: he makes A Bill.

Oxford Circuit. WORCESTERSHIRE. 325

WORCESTER CITY GAOL.

[Remarks.]

THIS is also the City Bridewell. The Debtors free ward is spacious. — One common yard: another might be taken from the Keeper's large garden. — He pays Window-tax; which he said brought him under the disagreeable necessity of stopping up some windows. Rate £3: 5: 0.

[City of Worcester.]

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by the Gaoler of the said City pursuant to a Statute made in the thirty second year of the reign of his late Majesty King George the Second.

£. S. D,

For the Discharge of every Debtor to the Gaoler and Turnkey — 0: 9: 2

The like of every Felon — 0: 5: 0

For the Lodging of every Prisoner in the House per week — 0: 2: 6

For the Copy of every Commitment — 0: 1: 0

On the Delivery of every Declaration — 0: 1: 0

Allowed according to the said Statute by us

Epiphany Sessions 1771

Edw Willings Mayor

W Haden

Tho Giles

Timy Edwards

At the Lent Assize 1771

Allowed by us

E. Willes

W: H: Ashurst.

326 STAFFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at STAFFORD.

GAOLER, William Scott.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 17: 4,

Felons, 0 15: 10.

Transports, £6: 0: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } each per week 16d. bread, and 8d. cheese; and in common 3 Cwt. of coals a week from Michaelmas to May-day.

Felons, }

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 1½, 

Felons, cancelled by the Gaoler.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 19, - 39 - 20,

1774, April 1, - 44 - 17,

1775, Nov. 15, - 40 - 18.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Unett.

Duty — Sunday, Wednesday, Fridays; a Sermon once in about two months.

Salary, lately augmented from £20 to £30.

SURGEON, Mr. Ward.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

Oxford Circuit. STAFFORDSHIRE. 327

STAFFORD.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is much too small for the number of Prisoners: and so is the Felons Court-yard. The Dungeon where the Men-felons sleep is about two feet lower than the passage. No steps, a sloping descent. It is too close. No Infirmary. An Alarm-bell. It is pity that the Stream just on the outside of the Walls is not within them. I was pleased to see plenty of clean straw in the Dungeon; and found it was owing to the generous and exemplary practice of not farming it, but allowing the Gaoler to order it whenever wanted, and the County paying for it themselves.

A TABLE OF FEES — settled at the General Quarter Sessions — 18th day of April 1732.

£. S. D.

For entering the Action whereon each Prisoner is first brought into custody either on Process Capias Latitate Execution or Writ of Excom ad Capiendum and discharging each Prisoner by Writ of Supersedeas or otherwise — 0: 13: 4

For receiving and entering every Declaration delivered against Prisoners to be paid by the Plaintiff in such Action — 0: 2: 0

For a Certificate for want of a Declaration in order to sue out a Writ of Supersedeas — 0: 3: 6

For a Copy of each Warrant against each Prisoner — 0: 1: 6

For the Under Keeper or Turnkey upon every Action or Writ — 0: 2: 6

For the Under Keeper or Turnkey upon discharging of each Prisoner by Supersedeas or otherwise — 0: 1: 6

328 STAFFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

LODGINGS.

£. S. D.

Every Prisoner that lies in the Master's-side of the Gaol in a bed provided by the Keeper of the Gaol shall pay per week if a bed to himself — 0: 2: 0

If two Prisoners or more lye together in one bed then between them all — 0: 2: 6

Every Prisoner that lies in the upper rooms or garret in a bed and bedding found by the Keeper of the Gaol shall pay per week — 0: 1: 0

And if two Prisoners lie together then — 0: 1: 6

Every Prisoner that lies in the same side and finds his own 1 linnen and bedsteads — 0: 0: 6

Every Prisoner that lies in the County Chamber shall pay nothing. — 0: 0: 0

We the Judges of Assize and Gaol Delivery of the Oxford Circuit have perused and do approve of the above written Table of Fees this 2d day of August Anno Dorn. 1732

E Probyn

J Comyns

E Littleton

H Wyrly

Fish Littleton

R. Rider

Jno. Dolphin

Oxford Circuit. STAFFORDSHIRE. 329

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS,

STAFFORD. The House very dirty. Prisoners always shut up. Keeper's Salary £25: he puts in a Deputy who serves for Rent. Allowance same as at the Gaol. No employment.

1775, Nov. 15, Prisoners 4.

WOLVERHAMPTON. Only two rooms about twelve feet square, viz. a common day-room on the ground-floor; and a night-room above, for men: women sleep in the day-room. No court-yard: no water: no sewer: no employment. Weekly allowance in bread, fourteen pence: cheese, seven pence: straw, three pence. Keeper's Salary £25: Fees one shilling. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

The Prison is greatly out of repair; and so insecure that Prisoners, even for the slighted offences, are kept in irons. The County may redress this; for they have a large garden close to the Prison which they let with an old house on the spot.

1776, Sep. 11, Prisoners, 4 Men.

LITCHFIELD CITY GAOL.

The rooms too small and close. No yard: no water: no straw. Might be improved upon the ground behind it. Keeper's Salary £2: Fees 13s. 4d. no Table. Allowance is. 6d. a week.

1773, Nov. 20, Prisoners 2,

1776, Jan. 8, - 1.

SHROPSHIRE. Oxford Circuit. 330

COUNTY GAOL at SHREWSBURY.

GAOLER, Samuel Wilding.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 9: 0,

Felons, 0: 14: 4.

Transports, £6: 6: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, two six-penny loaves a week each.

Felons, 1s. 4d.½. in bread a week each.

Garnish, lately cancelled. (See Remarks.)

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, March 31, - 12 - 18,

1775, Nov. 27, - 16 - 15,

1776, Sep. 12, - 11 - 24. (See Remarks.)

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Humphreys, now Rev. Mr. Rowlands.

Duty — Sunday and Tuesday. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £35.

SURGEON, Mr. Cooper.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

APOTHECARY, Mr. James Winall.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

Oxford Circuit. SHROPSHIRE. 331

SHREWSBURY.

[Remarks.]

SEPARATE Court-yards for Debtors and Felons; but the latter have no water. For this reason, and because their day-room is in the Debtors Court, both Debtors and Felons are commonly together in that Court. — Commodious apartments for Master's-side Debtors: and a large free ward for the Common-side. — For Felons there are two night-dungeons down eleven steps: that for men was about four years ago made more airy by an additional window: and it is, or should be, now daily freshened by a Hand Ventilator which is in the room above. The women's dungeon might also be freshened by the same. — The day-room for Felons is small: men and women together. — The County is now enclosing a Court-yard for the Women; and will probably build them a separate Day-room. They will no doubt provide Water in this Court; as they should also in that of the Men-felons.

An Infirmary should be added: for if the intended improvements will be some protection against the Gaol-Fever, which of late years has prevailed here more than once, they will not secure Prisoners against the Small-Pox and other diseases.

When the Apothecary finds that a sick Prisoner should have better diet, he orders the Gaoler to provide it, and signs his bill for the amount; which is readily allowed by the Justices at Quarter Sessions.

Of the twenty-four Felons in September last, fourteen were Convicts for Transportation. — The County allows Transports convicted at Quarter Sessions as much as those convicted at Assize have from the King's allowance, viz, 2s. 6d. a week.

332 SHROPSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

Mr. Wood who, before the appointing of a Chaplain, read prayers three times a week, and had £5* a. year, has been employed in the same service ever since; and has received of the Chaplains the same salary. — I believe the Magistrates made the Chaplain's salary £5 more, in favour of Mr. Wood.

The Justices of this County, at the General Quarter Sessions 11th Jan. 1774, were so considerate and humane, as to prohibit the demanding from Prisoners at their entrance into this Gaol, or into the County Bridewell, any money for drink, by the name of Garnish, or any other Name: and to require that two or more fair copies of their said order should be hung up in the most public places of the Gaol, for the inspection of Debtors, as well as Felons; that the unfortunate might not afterwards be Imposed upon.

A TABLE of chamber rent and fees — settled by Justices appointed &c. — according to — Act of Parliament — and approved — by the Court in the General Quarter Sessions held for the County of Salop.

The CHAMBER RENT for DEBTORS.

£. S. D.

To the Gaoler for lodging and furniture on the Master's-side each person having a bed to himself per week — 0: 2: 0

If two lodge in the same bed then both to pay per week — 0: 3: 0

To the Gaoler for lodging and furniture in the Garrets each person to pay per week — 0: 1: 0

No person shall be removed out of the room wherein he is placed by the Gaoler, without his own consent, or two Justices of the Peace; except in non payment of their weekly sum for chamber rent.

That no Debtor, or Debtors, pay any rent or money whatsoever, for his lodging on the Common-side provided he does not use the Gaoler's bed and furniture — 0: 0: 0

Oxford Circuit. SHROPSHIRE. 333

Fees to the Gaoler and his Servants for debtors.

£. S. D.

To Gaoler for Commitment and discharge of every Debtor — 0: 7: 6

To Gaoler's Clerk for entering in Gaoler's book every charge or charges upon each Debtor — 0: 1: 0

To the Turnkey for the discharge on every action upon such Debtor — 0: 0: 6

For the Copy of every Sheriff's Warrant if demanded — 0: 1: 0

But the Debtor to have recourse to fee the book of Commitments (if desired) gratis — 0: 0: 0

To the Gaoler for every Debtor if charged with more actions than one, to pay at his discharge (and no more) 0: 15: 0

For registering and entering every declaration against Prisoner in custody — 0: 1: 0

For signing every Certificate in order to obtain a Superse, or a rule or order of Court — 0: 2: 6

Fees for the Gaoler and his Servants for felons.

To the Gaoler for discharge of every Felon committed to be tried at the Assizes — 0: 13: 4

To Gaoler for discharge of every Felon committed to be tried at the Sessions — 0: 8: 0

To the Turnkey for the discharge of every Felon — 0: 1: 0

For a Copy of every Commitment if demanded — 0: 1: 0

For every Certificate of Commitment in order to sue out a Habeas Corpus — 0: 2: 6

other crime not being Felony — 0: 6: 8

But if continued in Gaol three months or upwards then the same Fees to be paid by such persons as above for Felons to be tried at Sessions (viz) — 0: 8: 0

N. B. But if any Prisoner be turned over to the House of Correction: then to pay the Gaoler's Fees before discharged.

334 SHROPSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHREWSBURY.

Too small: only one day-room for men and women. Two night-rooms above for women. In one of them I saw a poor young creature too ill to come down stairs; she was languishing on the floor in a consumption. The night-room for men is a dungeon down ten steps. There is a small court-yard with water. — By means of a door from this into one of the Gaol Court-yards, these Prisoners have a privilege (which few in Bridewells enjoy) of attending Public Worship in the Chapel on Sunday.

Keeper's Salary £50. Fees at Discharge of a Felon, 8s. of one guilty of a Misdemeanor, 6s. 8 d. of a Vagrant, 3s. 6d. as per Table in the Prison. — Allowance, bread as Felons in the Gaol. Little or no employment: Keeper has half the profit.

The Prohibition of Garnish, as mentioned in the County Gaol, is not hung up in this Bridewell.

1774, March 31, Prisoners 4,

1775, Nov. 27, - 5,

1776, Sep. 12, - 11.

LUDLOW TOWN GAOL.

Built 1764. For Felons &c. two lower rooms vaulted, with chimneys. Two rooms above, more spacious and airy, for Debtors.

1774, July 1, Prisoners, none.

Oxford Circuit. HEREFORDSHIRE. 335

COUNTY GAOL at HEREFORD.

GAOLER, Thomas Ireland.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0 : 14 : 4.

Fees, Felons, £0 : 14 : 4.

Transports, £5: 10: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Allowance, Felons, a three-penny loaf each, every other day.

Garnish, £0 : 2 : 6.

Number of Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 23, - 14 - 29,

1774, Aug. 9, - 11 - 13,

1775, Dec. 2, - 17 - 4,

1776, Sep. 9, - 8 - 3.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Baylis; now Rev. Mr. Underwood.

Duty — Sunday, Wednesday, Friday, and Saints days.

Salary, £40. Twenty of it is a Legacy of William Bridges, Esq. of Tiverton in this County.

SURGEON, Mr. William Cam.

Salary, £15.

336 HEREFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit,

HEREFORD.

[Remarks.]

APARTMENTS, and Court-yard for Master's-side Debtors spacious: but no free ward. Felons night-ward was too close, but is lately made airy and commodious: their court behind the Gaol, large. The Chapel very damp. — Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. — Mr. Ireland, who has been there above forty years, said he never had a Debtor who obtained the groats.

William Bridges, Esq. bequeathed £8 a year to poor Prisoners: and on St. Thomas's day one shilling is given to each Debtor and six pence to each Felon by Legacy of Sir Thomas White. No Table of Bequests. The Table of Fees not hung up.

TABLE OF FEES.

AT the General Quarter Sessions — held — at Hereford — in the first week after the Feast of St. Thomas the Martyr (to wit) the 14th of July in the 4th — of — George II — 1730

Before John Stratford Esq. Edward Goodere Bart. Herbert Aubrey Richard Hopton Esqrs. &c. — pursuant to an Act for the Relief of Debtors &c. — It is Ordered that the several — Sums herein after mentioned and no more may be taken. —

(That is to say)

£. S. D.

For the Entering of every Action or Process whereon a Prisoner shall or may be charged — 0 : 3 : 6

To the Turnkey or Under Keeper on each Action — 0 : 1 : 0

Oxford Circuit. HEREFORDSHIRE 337

£. S. D.

For entering of the Discharge, and for the Discharge of every Prisoner — 0: 6: 8

To the Turnkey on the Discharge of every Prisoner — 0 : 1 : 0

For the receiving and entering every Declaration delivered against the Prisoners in custody — 0 : 2 : 0

To the Turnkey upon every Declaration — 0: 0: 6

For a Certificate for want of a Declaration in order to take out a Writ of Supersedeas — 0: 3: 6

For a Copy of a Warrant or Commitment against each Prisoner — 0: 2: 6

Every Prisoner that lyes in the Keeper's lodgings in the Sheriff's Ward in a single bed and sheets, by the week — 0: 2: 6

For two in a bed with sheets by the week — 0: 1: 6

Every Prisoner that lyes in his own lodgings — 0: 1: 6

For two persons or more in their own lodgings each — 0: 1: 0

J Stratford

Edwd. Goodere

H Aubrey

R Hopton

H Thomas

Rogr. Hereford

RO. Price } The King's Justices

J. Comyns }

338 HEREFORDSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at HEREFORD,

On the Castle-green, is quite out of repair. Indeed it is not only ruinous but dangerous: a cross wall is parted a great way from the wall against which it abutted. In the day-room there was a large quantity of water from the roof. No fire-place: offensive sewers: no yard: no water: no stated allowance: no employment. — Keeper's Salary £10. He told me that a little before I came, a Prisoner died after three weeks confinement. Six Prisoners, whom I saw there at my first visit, complained of being almost famished. They were sent hither from the Assize a few days before to hard labour (as the sentence usually runs) for six months. The Justices had ordered the Keeper to supply each of them daily with a twopenny loaf: but he had neglected them. They broke out soon after.

1774, Aug. 9, - Prisoners 6,

1775, Dec. 3, - 0,

1776, Sep. 9, - 1.

HEREFORD CITY GAOL

Is one of the Gates. The Debtors rooms are commodious; and they have a little court-yard. The room for Felons too close. Keeper a Widow: the Gaol clean.

1776, Sep. 9, Debtors 3, Felons none.

Oxford Circuit. MONMOUTHSHIRE. 339

COUNTY GAOL at MONMOUTH.

GAOLER, John Daverel, now James Baker.

Salary, none. £20 a year to supply Felons as below.

Fees, Debtors, } £1: 0: 10

Felons, }

Transports, £6 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, one-pennyworth of bread a day each.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 23, - 10 - 12,

1774, Aug. 10, - 9 - 16,

1775, Dec. 4, - 5 - 8,

1776, Sep. 5, - 6 - 9.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Powel.

Salary, £10: 10: 0, lately augmented to £12: 12: 0.

340 MONMOUTHSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

MONMOUTH.

[Remarks.]

ONLY one Court-yard. The rooms for Debtors small. Felons night-room at top of the house, with only one little window. Besides the difficulty of going daily up and down in irons; when water is to be carried so high, and the staircase, like this, is narrow and inconvenient, a room is seldom clean and healthy. This cannot be so if it should be crowded. At my first visit in 1774 they had the Gaol-Fever, of which J. Daverel and several of his Prisoners, and some of their friends died. — No Infirmary: there is room to build one at the bottom of the yard. The Brewhouse is very fit for a Felons Day-room; which is much wanted.

After the mortality mentioned above, all the Prisoners were new cloathed by the Duke of Beaufort.

John Gabriel a Gardener near the town used to send each Prisoner every Quarter-day a six-penny loaf; and at his decease he bequeathed the same Donation. Prisoners do at present receive it; but there is no Memorial of the Legacy hung up.

A TABLE OF DEBTORS FEES as settled and allowed by the several Justices of the Peace for the County of Monmouth whose names are hereunto written the 10th August 1751: According to the direction of an Act of Parliament intituled &c.

£. S. D.

Imprimis for entering the Action whereon each Prisoner is first brought into Custody either on Process, Capias Latitat Execution or Writ of Excom ad Capiendum — 0: 18: 4

Oxford Circuit. MONMOUTHSHIRE. 341

£. S. D.

For entering and discharging every second and other Action upon Process Capias Latitat or Execution — 0: 13: 4

For receiving and entering every declaration against Prisoners' in Custody — 0: 2: 0

For the Certificate of the want of a declaration in order to sue out a writ of Supersedeas — 0: 6: 8:

For a Copy of each Warrant against each Prisoner — 0: 3: 4

For receiving and entering every Warrant against each defendant in custody — 0: 2: 6

For the Under Keeper or Turnkey upon each Action and Writ — 0: 2: 6

LODGINGS.

Every Prisoner that lies in the Keeper's Lodgings in the Sheriff's Ward pays per week — 0: 2: 6

Every Prisoner that lies in the Sheriff's Ward in his own lodgings pays per week — 0: 1: 6

The Names of the Justices who signed and allowed the above Fees.

Thos. Morgan

Capel Hanbury

Jas. Tuder Morgan

J. Lewis

Chas. Van Junr.

John Chambre

E. Bradbury

Examined and allowed by the

Honble Sir Thomas Dennison Knt

and the

Honble Mr. Baron Clive

MONMOUTHSHIRE. Oxford Circuit. 342

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at USK.

This Prison was formerly a Chapel. On the ground-floor is a room for men, and another for women. There are two work-rooms at top of the house; but I saw no Prisoners there. — The Keeper's wife told me that many years ago the Prison was crowded; and herself, her father, who was then Keeper, and many others of the family, had the Gaol-Fever: three of them, and several Prisoners died of it. The danger of such a calamity for the future would be much lessened, if an additional room or two were built in the Garden. There is a Court-yard, with a Pump, which is seldom in order. — Keeper's Salary £20: Fees 5s. 6d. no Table.

1774, Aug. 21, Prisoners 2,

1776, Sep. 6, - 3.

Oxford Circuit. GLOUCESTERSHIRE. 343

COUNTY GAOL, GLOUCESTER CASTLE.

GAOLER, William Williams.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, - £1: 0: 10.

Felons at Assize, - 0: 17: 8,

Felons at Quarter Sessions, 0: 13: 4.

Transports, £6 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, each a six-penny loaf in two days.

Garnish, £0: 1: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 24, - 15 - 17,

1774, Aug. 8, - 20 - 48,

1775, Dec. 5, - 13 - 24,

1776, Sep. 5, - 8 - 35,

1776, Dec. 15, - 10 - 41. (See Remarks.)

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Evans.

Duty — Sunday, Wednesday, Friday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, None: but on applying to a Justice.

344 GLOUCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

[Remarks.]

GLOUCESTER CASTLE

IS also one of the County Bridewells: yet only one Court-yard for all Prisoners; and one small Day-room, twelve feet by ten, for Men and Women-felons. The night-room (the Main) for Men-felons, though up many stone steps, is close and dark; and the floor is so ruinous, that it cannot be walked. Adjoining to the Main, there are other night-rooms for Fines &c. men and women separate. Fines have also their separate day-room. Many Prisoners died here in 1773; and always, except in my last visit, I saw some sick in this Gaol. The large Dunghill that one constantly sees near the stone steps may be one cause of it. — The whole Prison is much out of repair. Some alterations are now making at the Gateway. I hope the Gentlemen will consider the dreadful condition of the other Buildings.

The upper rooms of the Castle were the Bridewell; but they are not now used except occasionally for a Prisoner that has the Small-Pox &c. there being no Infirmary.

Of the Felons &c. in September and December last, thirteen were Transports: most of them convicted at Lent Assize 1775. About twenty were Fines; who not having the County allowance, nor any employment, were in September very pitiable objects indeed; half naked, and almost famished. But in December their appearance was much altered. Mr. Raikes and other Gentlemen took pity on them, and generously contributed toward the feeding and cloathing them. — Mr. Williams has £10 a year as Bridewell Keeper.

In this Gaol were some Prisoners, who had been arrested by Exchequer Writs; in which an Officer is commanded "to bring

Oxford Circuit. GLOUCESTERSHIRE. 345

"the body before the Barons of the Exchequer — at Westminster — to answer our Sovereign Lord the King concerning divers trespasses, contempts, and offences &c.” The Prisoners are called Contempts. In different parts of the Kingdom, there are many Prisoners detained by such Writs, which are indeed numerous.

A TABLE OF DEBTORS FEES allowed by the — Justices — for the County of Gloucester at the Booth-hall 15 July 1729. Approved — by the Judge of Assize — 19th same month according to — an Act entitled &c.

To wit

£. S. D.

Imprimis, for entering the Action whereon each Prisoner is first brought into custody either on Process, Capias, Latitat, Execution or writ of Excom ad Capiendum — 0: 18: 0

For entering and discharging every second and other Action upon Process, Capias, Latitat or Execution — 0: 13: 4

For receiving and entering every declaration against Prisoners in custody — 0: 2: 0

For the Certificate of the want of a declaration in order to sue out a writ of Supersedeas, — 0: 6: 8 

For a Copy of each Warrant against each Prisoner — 0: 3: 4

For receiving and entering every Warrant against each defendant in custody — 0: 2: 6

For the Under Keeper or Turnkey upon each Action or Writ — 0: 2: 6

LODGING.

Every Prisoner who lies in the Keeper's Lodgings in the Sheriff's Ward, being the Castle; pays by the week — 0: 2: 6

Every Prisoner who lyes in the Sheriff's Ward in his own Lodgings pays by the week — 0: 1: 6

346 GLOUCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

[Gloucester Castle.]

The names of the Justices who signed and allowed the above fees at the last Sessions

Willm. Hodges

J Temple

Ed Field

J Stephens

Tho Cooke

K Delabere

C Hyatt

Nathl. Lye

Fr Willis

Maynd Colchester

Thos Hayward

Reg Winniatt

Tho Syke.

The names of the Justices and Judge of Assize who allowed and confirmed the above fees at the last Assize

Tho Cooke

J Stephens

Ed Field

Tho Hayward.

I have reviewed and examined the above Table of Fees and do confirm the same

ROB. PRICE.

OTHER

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

LAWFORD'S GATE, BRISTOL, built 1716, has four rooms, eighteen feet by sixteen: in two of them are beds for those who pay. There is a small room in which Felons deep. No chimneys. Court-yard twenty two feet by eighteen; with a pump. It is not secure; and Prisoners are always confined

Oxford Circuit. GLOUCESTERSHIRE. 347

[Bridewells.]

in their rooms. It may be enlarged from the Keeper's Garden; and should be made secure, that Prisoners may use it, and have access to the pump. The Keeper readily agreed with me in that opinion. He is a Sheriff's Officer: Salary £ 10: Fees 6s. 8d. no Table. Straw ten shillings a quarter: allowance, if a Prisoner be very poor, 2d. a day: no employment. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. By a Register kept in the Prison, it appears that in eight years and a half to September 1776 there were committed to it 572 Prisoners.

1774, Aug. 23, Prisoners 2,

1775, Dec. 8, - 3,

1776, Dec. 16, - 6.

BERKELEY. Quite out of repair. Only one room for men and women: no chimney: yard not secure: no water: no straw. The sensible old Keeper lamented the bad effects of close confinement in idleness, upon the health of even young strong Prisoners. Many such, he said, he had known quite incapable of working for some weeks after their discharge. He told me, that some years ago his Prisoners used to grind malt for a penny a bushel; and the Justices would not licence any Victualler whose malt was not ground here: but that of late years they have done no work at all. No allowance. Keeper Francis Norman: his Salary £20: Fees 4s. 4d. no Table. He wrote me a List of his Prisoners for four years past; which I will transcribe.

1774, Aug. 22, Prisoners 3, two Men, one Woman.

1775, Dec. 6, None.

348 GLOUCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

[Bridewells.]

Account of PRISONERS in the Bridewell at Berkeley.

In the Year 1771, Committed to Labour and Correction, Prisoners 21,

Nothing expended,

Nothing earned.

1772, Ditto, - 20,

Nothing expended,

Nothing earned.

1773, Ditto, - 19,

Nothing expended,

Nothing earned.

1774, Ditto, - 15,

Nothing expended,

Nothing earned.

1775, Ditto to Midsummer Sessions, - 4,

Nothing expended,

Nothing earned.

Francis Norman.

CIRENCESTER. The ground-floor is the Keeper's shop for garden feeds; and his kitchen &c. On the first story is a room about sixteen feet by eleven for men: one corner of it is parted off for a bed-room, called the Cub, eight feet by five. On the second story is a larger room for women. — The whole out of repair; and the yard not secure enough to let the Prisoners have the use of it. — No allowance to any but Felons occasionally committed hither. No employment. Keeper's Salary £13: he pays Rent £12.

1776, Sep. 4, Prisoners 3.

Oxford Circuit. GLOUCESTERSHIRE. 349

WINCHCOMB. In this Bridewell Prisoners were formerly kept all together in the Cellar. Now they are in the Garrets: men in one, women in another; each about fourteen feet square: roof and floors meet: eight feet high to the ridge in the middle. A close glazed window in each: no chimney. Prisoners always confined to their rooms: court-yard not secure. The County have not laid out any thing upon the House for many years; and the whole is quite out of repair. It is the Keeper's Freehold: he is upwards of fourscore; his Salary per Receipts £12: 10: 0, in fact £12. Fees 13s. 4d. no Table. Licence for Beer. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. Allowance, if charged with Felony, three-pennyworth of bread a day. No straw.

1776, Dec. 14, Prisoners, 1 Felon

2 Women Delinquents spinning.

IN THIS COUNTY IS ALSO

St. BRIAVEL's GAOL for debtors.

The Property of Lord Berkeley. It is in the Forest of Dean. One room for men, greatly out of repair: no yard; no water: no allowance: no firing. One of the two sickly objects I found there, told me he had been confined a twelvemonth, and never once out of the dismal room: the other almost as long. — A room above for women; none there. — Keeper no Salary.

1775, Dec. 4, Prisoners 2.

350 GLOUCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

Remarks.

GLOUCESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, William Jeynes.

Salary, none: he pays £4: 4: 0 year to the Sheriffs.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 9: 8,

Felons, 0: 12: 10.

Transports, £6 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, three shillings a week. (See Remarks.)

Felons, three-pennyworth of bread a day each.

Garnish, £0: 3: 4.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Nov. 24, - 3 - 4,

1775, Dec. 5, - 7 - 7,

1776, Sep. 6, - 2 - 2,

1776, Dec. 15, - 2 - 6.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None; but on applying to the Mayor.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, the North-gate, is too small. Debtors Felons and Petty Offenders, who cannot pay for beds, all together; but women separated at night. No Court-yard; but Debtors have the privilege of walking upon the Leads.

Oxford Circuit. GLOUCESTERSHIRE. 351

The Gaoler put down a Pump at his own expence; and for reimbursement he deducts three pence a week out of three shillings a week which the City pays Debtors in common. On the 13th of December Prisoners have ten shillings worth of bread from an Estate in Hemsted near this City. It is sent in two-penny loaves. No Memorial of it in the Gaol.

He also keeps the City Bridewell at the East-gate: but that is out of repair; and Offenders are committed to this Gaol.

Gloucester City.

A TABLE of CHAMBER RENT and FEES belonging to the North-gate Gaol &c.

CHAMBER RENTS.

The best room for each man three shillings per week.

The three bed-rooms for each man two shillings and four pence per week. The chamber called Daw's-nest three shillings per week.

The little chamber called Catt-hole two shillings and four pence per week.

The little room on the first floor two shillings and four pence per week.

FEES,

£. S. D.

Sheriff's Warrants of Writs out of King's Bench and Common Pleas, Gaoler 8s. 4d. Turnkey 1s. 4d. — 0: 9: 8

All Execution-Warrants the same — 0: 9: 8

City double Action — 0: 8: 4

City single Action — 0: 4: 8

Executions out of Court of Conscience — 0: 2: 6

Mittimus's — 0: 12: 10

352 GLOUCESTERSHIRE. Oxford Circuit.

[Gloucester City.]

Civil Gloucss Ad Generalem Quartialem Sessionem &c. 5 Mar: — 4° Georgii II — 1730

Whereas by an Act made in the second year of the reign of his present Majesty — for the Relief &c. — no Fees — or Chamber rent to be taken — till settled by three or more Justices — at the Quarter Sessions — and — signed by the Judge of Assize with three or more Justices — And whereas upon the Examination of the Gaoler of the Prison of the North-gate of this City — it appearing to us that the above — are the ancient and accustomed fees — we having reviewed and moderated the said Table of Fees in some Articles do hereby allow and confirm the same as they are now settled.

Signed by us

John Small Mayor

Cutli Payne

Tho Carill

Western Circuit. HAMPSHIRE. 353

OR THE COUNTY OF SOUTHAMPTON.

COUNTY GAOL at WINCHESTER.

GAOLER, John White.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £1: 0: 0.

Felons, 1: 7: 4.

Transports, £5: 5: 0 each, and hire of waggon or other carriage.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none: but on applying to the Justices. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a three-penny loaf each, every other day (weight in Sep. 1774, 1lb. 15 oz.), and the College allowance. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773. Dec. 16, - 21 - 18,

1774, Sep. 24, - 13 - 21,

1775, Dec. 28, - 15 - 29,

1776, Feb. 27, - 15 - 23.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Westcomb.

Duty — Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday.

Salary, lately augmented from £30 to £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Lipscomb.

Salary, lately augmented from £30 to £50 for Felons, Bridewell, and Common-side Debtors.

354 HAMPSHIRE. Western Circuit.

WINCHESTER.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is kept-very clean; and the late alterations in it are improvements. The present Dungeon is down but five steps: it is boarded and has large windows. The former destructive Dungeon was darker, and down eleven steps: Mr. Lipscomb informed me that more than twenty Prisoners had died in it of the Gaol Fever in one year; and that his predecessor died of the same distemper. The Felons day room is commodiously enlarged. Their straw beds and coverlids are brought out and aired when the weather is fine. They have every day a clean towel hung on a roller: the prisoner who takes care of it and delivers it next day is paid a penny. If a little court, which is now shut up from the Gaol, and totally useless, were cleared, lowered, and opened towards the Prison, it would be very conducive to health and convenience.

St. Cross's Hospital bread (the Dole) is about a penny loaf given to each of the Prisoners six times a year: viz. on the eve of the following days, 10th August, 31st October, Christmas, Easter, 3d of May, and Whitsunday.

The College allowance to Felons is, once a week, an ox's head, four sheeps heads and henges, about seventeen pints of oatmeal, three pints of salt, twelve loaves the size of twopenny ones, about twenty gallons of table beer, and generally three times a week the broken victuals. In Lent they have not the ox head, nor the other meat.

The Gaoler has two guineas a year for keeping a bread account, to check the baker. The Justices also take care of this matter; and, in consequence, the quarterly bills, now the Prisoners have three halfpence a day, amount to no more than they did in the last Gaoler's and Baker's time when the allowance was but a penny a day.

Western Circuit. HAMPSHIRE. 355

Southton. Ss Ad Generalem Quarterialem Sessionem — apud Winton — 11mo. Janrii 5to Georgii II — 1731 coram &c.

A TABLE of FEES — settled — pursuant to an Act — the second year of his present Majesty — entitled an Act for the relief of Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

At the entrance of every Felon for cleansing the Gaol and finding candles and all other common necessaries - 0 : 2 : 0

At the discharge of every Felon to the Gaoler - 1 : 5 : 4

To him for the second and every other indictment - 0 : 12 : 8

At the discharge of every Felon to the Turnkey - 0 : 2 : 0

For the second and every other indictment to him - 0 : 1 : 0

To the Gaoler for every Felon for his bed on the Master's-side weekly - 0 : 3 : 0

If two lye in the same bed he may take of each for lodging in such bed - 0 : 2 : 0

At the entrance of every Debtor for cleansing the Gaol and finding candle and other necessaries - 0 : 4 : 0

Of every Debtor for each week's lodging in the Gaoler's bed on the Master's side - 0 : 2 : 6

For each Debtor discharged to the Gaoler - 1 : 0 : 0

Of him for the second and every other Action - 0 : 10 : 0

To the Turnkey at the discharge of every Debtor - 0 : 2 : 0

To him of such Debtor for the second and every other Action - 0 : 1 : 0

At the discharge of every person committed for Felony and whole bills shall be brought in Ignoramus and at the discharge of every person committed for not finding bail or for ocher misdemeanors under the degree of Felony no more than - 0 : 13 : 4

For Copy of every Warrant for a Debtor - 0 : 1 : 0

For the Copy of every Commitment of a Felon - 0 : 1 : 0

356 HAMPSHIRE. Western Circuit.

And it is ordered — that the Gaoler — shall not — receive directly or indirectly — any other or greater Fees &c. — And for the better information of Prisoners — that the under-written Clause in the said Act of Parliament be subscribed at the bottom of the Table of Fees to be hung up — in each and every room &c.

"And be it further enacted — that every Sheriff, Under Sheriff, Gaoler &c. shall permit — him or her — arrested to send for — any beer ale and victuals or other necessary food from what place they please and also to have — such bedding linnen &c. — as he she or they shall think fit &c."

Copy

Ed Stawell

John Foyle

Ed Hooker

Rob Pyke

Thos. Durnford

Thos. Bates

R. C. Chaloner Cobb

Benj Woodroofe

Ric New

John Alwick

At WINCHESTER is

A PRISON for debtors, the Cheyney Court in and for the Liberty of the Soke: Property of the Bishop. Out of repair. There is a Garden into which some Prisoners are admitted. The Bounty of the Duke of Chandos supplies this Prison every week with two gallon loaves and about twenty pounds of beef. Fees 16s. 8d. no Table.

1775, Dec. 28, Prisoners 6.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

WINCHESTER. The three rooms are too close, and the yard too small for the Prisoners who are commonly numerous;

Western Circuit. HAMPSHIRE. 357

[Bridewells.]

especially at Quarter Sessions, when they are brought hither from the other Bridewells. This Prison has been fatal to vast numbers. The misery of the Prisoners excited the companion of the Duke of Chandos; who for some years past has sent them every week about thirty pounds of beef and two gallon loaves. A pump lately sunk: no straw. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up. Keeper's Salary £40: Fees 7s. 8d. no Table. Licence, Beer and Wine. Allowance, a three-penny loaf in two days: no employment.

1774, Sep. 24, Prisoners 13,

1775, Dec. 28, - 21.

GOSPORT. Apartments convenient, but not kept clean. The yard airy. An oven to purify the cloaths, but no fuel allowed by the County. No straw. Keeper a Sheriff's Officer: Salary £40: Fees 6s. 8d. no Table. Licence, Beer and Wine. Allowance, two-pennyworth of bread a day: no employment. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up.

1774, Sep. 27, Prisoners 2,

1776, Feb. 26, - 5.

ODIAM. Three rooms. The Keeper takes to himself for a brew-house, dairy &c. the middle room, which is far the largest: the other two are twelve feet by eleven each. Keeper a Sheriff's Officer: Salary £15: Fees 6s. 8d. no Table. No Licence. Allowance about a pound of bread a day: no straw: no employment. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

1776, Feb. 28, Prisoners 8.

358 HAMPSHIRE. Western Circuit.

NEWPORT in the Isle of Wight. This is the Keeper's property. Two rooms; one of them quite dark: no yard: no water. Keeper told me his Salary was £19 : 15 : 0, for which he was to supply each Prisoner daily with three-halfpennyworth of bread, and three pints of water.

1774, Sep. 27, Prisoners none.

HERE IS ALSO

NEWPORT GAOL. No yard: no water. Allowance three-halfpennyworth of bread: three pints of water. Gaoler's Salary £3.

1774, Sep. 27, Prisoners none.

IN this County are also at

SOUTHAMPTON,

THE BAR GATE. Sheriff's Ward for Debtors. Two rooms: in that for women, no chimney. There is no court-yard: no water. Keeper, the oldest Sergeant at Mace: Salary £5: Fees 13s. 4d. no Table. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up.

1774, Sep. 24, Debtors 2,

1776, Feb. 26, - 2.

GAOL for felons, lower end of the town. Two close rooms. A court-yard: no water. Gaoler's Salary £5. Prisoners allowance three-pennyworth of bread a day.

1774, Sep. 24, Felons none,

1776, Feb. 26, Ditto.

Western Circuit. HAMPSHIRE. 359

[Southampton.]

BRIDEWELL, joins to the Gaol. Three airy rooms up stairs: no yard: no water: no straw: no employment. Keeper, a junior Sergeant at Mace: Salary £2: Fees 3s. 4d. no Table. Prisoners allowance three-pennyworth of bread a day: ten shillings a year for bedding.

1774, Sep. 24, Prisoners none.

1776, Feb. 26, - 2.

PORTSMOUTH

TOWN GAOL. In one of the rooms, which is large, Debtors and Felons lodge together. The upper rooms are for women: none in them. Gaoler is Sergeant at Mace: no Salary: Licence for Beer and Wine. Prisoners allowance, Debtors none; Felons four pence a day. No bedding nor straw.

I have a copy of the Table of Fees hung up in this Gaol: it is signed by the Town-Clerk George Huish 30th June 1738. He writes at the title ”Fees due to the Sergeants at Mace of the said Borough, which I have known to be paid from the year 1693 and have been informed were antiently paid.”

For every Commitment 15s. 10d. out of which the Town-Clerk hath 3s. 6d.

&c. &c. &c.

Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Sep. 24, 2 - 4,

1776, Feb. 26, 2 - 1.

BASINGSTOKE

PRISON, for debtors under £10, is one convenient room in the Keeper's Public-house. He has no Salary.

1776, Feb. 28, Prisoners none.

360 WILTSHIRE. Western Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at SALISBURY.

GAOLER, Thomas Biggs.

Salary, none. But £80 a year (lately raised from £50) to supply Felons as below. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, £1 : 1 : 0.

Felons, 1 : 6 : 4.

Transports, £4 : 4: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, a penny loaf a day each (weight in Sep. 1774, 8 oz.): now 2d. a day; i. e. 1½d. bread, ½d. a quart small beer. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, Debtors Master's-side, - £0: 8: 8,

Felons and Common-side Debtors, 0: 4: 4.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Dec. 13, - 14 - 8,

1774, Sep. 23, - 12 - 9,

1775, Dec. 27, - 21 - 15,

1776, Sep. 3, - 7 - 12.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Vanderplank.

Duty — Friday.

Salary, £40; of which £20 is a Legacy. (See Remarks.)

SURGEON, Mr. Crompton.

Salary, £10: 10: 0 for Felons and Common-side Debtors..

Western Circuit. WILTSHIRE. 361

SALISBURY.

[Remarks.]

THE PRISON in this City called Fisherton-Anger Gaol (from the name of the Parish in which it stands) near a fine stream, is also one of the county bridewells. Only one yard. No day-room for Common-side Debtors, nor Felons: each sort have their fire on a brick hearth raised in the middle of their respective lodging-rooms, without chimney. The Debtors room over the Felons. Women-felons have a separate room, more commodious.

Mr. Biggs has £6: 13: 4 Salary for the Bridewell; and £10 a year for Fees of Prisoners acquitted at Quarter Sessions. He pays Window-tax £3: 15: 0.

The lad time I was there, I saw a new building in the yard; a stable, cart-house, and brew-house; with an Infirmary over them; one room for men, another for women. I could not help wishing that the lower part instead of stable &c. had been two day-rooms with fire-places, one for Common-side Debtors, another for Felons.

That part of the Prison which was the Bridewell is not secure; and Petty Offenders are confined in the Gaol.

Just without the Prison-gate is a round staple fixed in the wall: through it is put a chain, at each end of which a Common-side Debtor padlocked by the leg, stands offering to those who pass by, nets, laces, purses &c. made in the Prison. The two whom I saw there last were Crown Debtors not cleared by the late Insolvent Act.

I have been informed, that at Christmas, Felons chained together were permitted to go about; one of them carrying a sack or basket for food, another a box for money.

362 WILTSHIRE. Western Circuit.

Twenty pounds a year of the Chaplain's Salary is paid by Lord Weymouth by a Bequest of Thomas Thyme, Esq. who bound for Payment the Manors of Weobly and Ross in the County of Hereford. The Bequest was recognized by Lord Weymouth in a Deed of Settlement dated 2d November 1709.

Lord Pembroke pays a Legacy of a year; part to the Chaplain himself, viz. a guinea for a hat; the remainder to be by him distributed among the Prisoners. Mr. Smith of Salisbury left the Interest of £50 to be divided among them. No Memorial of any Legacy hung up in the Gaol.

— Die Julii, 3°. Georgii II Anno Dom 1729

A TABLE of FEES now and heretofore usually demanded — and also for chamber rent &c. — according to an Act — intituled an Act for the Relief &c.

£. S. D.

For entering and discharging every Action or Process Capias or Latitat — 1: 0: 0

Entering and discharging of every second Action — 0: 10: 0

Entering and discharging every Capias utlegat — 0: 10: 0

For the Under Keeper or Turnkey each Action and Writ — 0: 1: 0

FELONS.

For every commitment and discharge by a Justice of Peace or in Court — 1: 5: 4

For every commitment for not finding bail for good behaviour — 0: 13: 4

Western Circuit. WILTSHIRE. 363

£. S. D.

For every commitment and discharge of bastardy — 0: 13: 4

For every Ignoramus upon Felony — 0: 13: 4

For every commitment and discharge on the Statute of Praemunire — 1: 5: 4

To the Under Keeper on each of the causes — 0: 1: 0

LODGINGS.

Every Prisoner that lyes in the Keeper's lodging in the Prized or Sheriff's Ward pays by the week — 0: 2: 6

We whose names are here under written — at the General Quarter Sessions — held — at Warminster — do hereby — allow the same

H Coker

J Montague

Jno, Cooper

Jno. Eyles

Thos. Phipps

Edwd Ashe

Edwd Younge.

There is also at SALISBURY the

CITY GAOL: the Property of the Bishop: out of repair. Two rooms for Felons, and three above them for Debtors. No Court-yard: no water: no straw. The Gaoler pays £8 a year to a Domestic of the Bishop. His Lordship sends to the Prisoners at Christmas thirty shillings worth of meat, and ten shillings worth of bread. Licence for Beer: Fees 14s. 4d. no Table. — Allowance, Debtors none: Felons three-halfpence a day.

Debtors. - Felons &c.

1775, Dec. 27, - 3 - 2,

1776, Sep. 3, - 2 - 0, - 2 Deserters.

364 WILTSHIRE. Western Circuit.

[Bridewells.]

OTHER

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

DEVIZES. This is also the Town Gaol. It has two night-rooms for men, and two for women: but the day-room and court-yard with water, common. — A small work-shop; I saw no body in it. — An Infirmary of two rooms. — Four rooms for Master's-side Debtors. — All clean at my last visit; lately white-washed &c.

Allowance to Offenders three-halfpennyworth of bread a day (weight in Sep. 1776, 18 ounces), and a pint of small beer. Straw a guinea a year.

There was a Debtor from the Court of Requests, he had a wife and four small children. Twelve weeks confinement clears such Debtors.

Two or three years ago the Gaol-Fever carried off many: but as the Infirmary and some of the other rooms mentioned above have been built since that time, there is now little danger of that distemper; provided care be taken to separate Prisoners in the apartments built for that purpose. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

The Gaoler has a Salary of £10, and keeps a public-house.

Debtors. Petty Offenders.

1774, Aug. 4, - 3 - 17,

1776, Sep. 4, - 1 - 13.

Western Circuit. WILTSHIRE. 365

[Bridewells.]

MARLBOROUGH. A small common work-room: a sizeable lodging-room for women: another for men: this is thirteen feet and a half by nine feet eight inches; window eighteen inches by fifteen, not to the open air, but to the work-room, which has but one window. All these rooms are on the ground-floor; and by a sewer within doors, they are made very offensive, especially the men's night-room; in which, when I was there first, I saw one dying on the floor of the Gaol-Fever. The Keeper told me that just before one had died there, and another soon after his discharge. Up stairs are three rooms for those who pay. No court-yard: no water accessible to Prisoners: no straw. Allowance to Petty Offenders none; Felons two-pennyworth of bread a day. Keeper's Salary lately raised from £20 to £50 in lieu of Fees; which, in a Table dated 1671, were Felons £1: 6: 4, Petty Offenders £0: 14: 4 &c. Licence for Beer. At my two last visits, some Prisoners at work.

I heard the Justices had viewed the outside of this Prison.

1774, Aug. 5, Prisoners 6,

1775, Dec. 30, - 8,

1776, Dec. 17, - 17.

366 DORSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at DORCHESTER.

GAOLER, James Chaffey.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, - £1: 3: 9,

Felons at Assize, - 1: 3: 8,

Quarter Sessions, 0: 17: 4.

Transports, £2: 12: 6 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none; but on applying to Justices.

Felons, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day (weight in Sep. 1774, 12½oz.).

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 7,

Felons, 0: 1: 3.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1773, Dec. 14, - 21 - 9,

1774, Sep. 21, - 19 - 9,

1775, Dec. 26, - 14 - 7,

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Dobney.

Duty — Friday; altered lately to Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary, raised lately from £30 to £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Kenn.

Salary, £30 for Debtors and Felons.

Western Circuit. DORSETSHIRE. 367

DORCHESTER.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL out of repair, and dirty. Only one yard. In September 1774, two Debtors told me they had lived five or six weeks, on nothing but the County bread and water. In December 1775, the Small-Pox in the Gaol: no Infirmary. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

Mr. John Derby left twenty shillings a year for bread to be distributed among the Prisoners on the four Quarter-days: no Memorial of this hung up.

Mr. Chaffey has been Gaoler above forty-four years. I copied a paper of Rules and Orders signed by him: the last article requires Garnish of a New-comer.

The following Table in the Gaol is hardly legible.

[Dorset.]

A TABLE of FEES to be taken by — the Gaoler or Keeper of the Sheriff's Ward at Dorchester — settled — at Shaston — 15th July — 34th of George II — 1760 pursuant to an Act — intituled an Act for Relief of Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

Imprimis for the Commitment Fee of every Prisoner for Debt Damage Contempt or otherwise in Civil Suits though it be on several Actions — 0: 13: 4

For the Chamber rent of every Prisoner so committed who shall have a bed to himself and although there are more beds in the same room and who finds himself bed bedding and sheets weekly and every week — 0: 2: 0

368 DORSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

£. S. D.

If there be two Prisoners and no more in one bed finding their own bed bedding and sheets then each of them to pay weekly and every week for Chamber rent — 0: 1: 0

Every Prisoner who at his own desire has a bed to himself and although there are more beds than one in each room and the Keeper judge bedding and sheeting shall pay for such Chamber rent and for the use of each bed and bedding weekly and every week — 0: 2: 0

Prisoners in one bed and no more in one bed and the Keeper finding bed bedding and sheets then every of them to pay weekly and every week for the use of such bed bedding and Chamber rent — 0: 1: 0

For the use of the Common room the Prisoner finding his bed and bedding — 0: 0: 0

But if the Keeper finds bedding then — 0: 0: 6

For the Liberate and Discharge of every Prisoner out of the said Prison for Debt or otherwise in Civil Suits or Actions — 0: 2: 0

For the Turnkey Fees of every Prisoner discharged — 0: 1: 0

Ric Brodrepp

R Riggs

J Hanham

Jno Jennings

E Okeden

John Freke

The above written Fees have been perused by Us his Majesty's Justices of Assize for the Western Circuit at the Assizes held at Dorchester in and for the said County of Dorset the 24th day of July 1760 and we do approve the same

E WILMOT

W NOEL

Examined with the Original by John Wallis Clerk of the Peace of the County of Dorset.

Western Circuit. DORSETSHIRE. 369

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at SHERBORN.

Too small; and the ceilings low. Keeper's Salary £40: Fees 13s. 4d. no Table. Allowance a three-penny loaf in two days, weight in Sep. 1774, 1lb. 15oz. No employment. No straw. The Keeper told me he had spoken in behalf of his sick Prisoners to the Clerk of the Peace, who said "he thought the late Act did not extend to Bridewells.”

The Justices have very judiciously provided for the relief of Prisoners going to different Quarter Sessions. Their Order dated 12th April 1774 is as follows.

[Sherborn, Dorset.]

HE great inhumanity that frequently happens unto the several Prisoners — conveyed to the different Quarter Sessions to be tryed — by the walking loaded with heavy irons — being taken into consideration — it is the Resolution and Order of this Court that for the future the Gaol-Keeper and Bridewell-Keeper shall provide for one Prisoner only a horse, for two or more a convenient cart or carriage for the conveying them: and to be allowed the sum of three pence per mile for one person; for two or more the sum of six pence a mile &c.

1774, Sep. 21, Prisoners 9.

370 DORSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

POOL

TOWN GAOL. Two rooms, down three steps. No water. Keeper, no Salary: Fees 13s. 4d. no Table. Allowance to Debtors and Felons 2s. 3d. a week each.

Debtor. - Felons.

1776, Feb. 16, 1 - None.

BRIDEWELL, in the Work-house yard. Three small dirty rooms. Keeper is the Master of the Work-house, which he farms.

1776, Feb. 16, Prisoners none but a Lunatic.

Western Circuit. DEVONSHIRE. 371

HIGH GAOL at EXETER,

FOR FELONS.

GAOLER, Benjamin Sherry.

Salary, none. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Felons, £0: 14: 4.

Transports, £1: 1: 0 each. (See Remarks.)

Licence, none. But he sells small beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Felons, twenty-two ounces of bread a day each.

Garnish, lately abolished.

Number of - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 18, - 20,

1774, Sep. 12, - 14,

1775, Dec. 16, - 25.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Stabback.

Duty — Sunday Sermon, and twice a week Prayers.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Rule.

Salary, £42 for Gaol and Bridewell. (See Remarks.)

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is the Property of John Rolle Walter, Esq. whose Family had a Grant of it from the Duchy of Cornwall: the Gaoler pays him Rent £22 per annum. The house and yard too small: no sewer. The three night-dungeons down three steps are close and

372 DEVONSHIRE. Western Circuit.

unhealthy: the windows too small. An Infirmary, commodious enough, is lately built; but the stairs that lead up to it are intolerably bad. The Prisoners make cabbage-nets for twopence a dozen; and purses of different sorts from four pence to seven pence a dozen: the Turnkey finds the twine and thread. — Two Sailors fined a shilling each, had £1: 1: 4 each to pay the Clerk of the Peace, besides the Gaoler's Fees. Mr. Rule the Surgeon told me that he was by contract excused from attending in the Dungeons any Prisoners that should have the Gaol-Fever.

There is no Table of Fees. But by the close of the Preamble at the Sheriff's Ward, the Table there seems to have included originally the Fees of this Gaol also.

The Gaoler has for each Transport two guineas from the Merchant, to whom the County pays per contract £5.

About Christmas, the Gaoler permits his Prisoners to solicit Charity in the City. When I was last there the box was broke open, supposed by the person who conducted them and absconded. If any Gentleman would undertake the disposal of the Contributions, this would not only prevent such a fraud, but the money laid out for meat, firing &c. would be far more beneficial than their spending most of it in liquor.

It was commendable and exemplary in the Justices of this County to fix the Felons allowance by a certain weight of good bread, not variable with the price.

Western Circuit. DEVONSHIRE. 373

SHERIFF'S WARD, EXETER;

the COUNTY PRISON for debtors.

KEEPER, John Jutsum.

Salary, none.

Fees, £0: 14: 4.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0: 1: 4.

Number of - Debtors.

1774, Feb. 20, - 43,

1774, Sep. 12, - 24.

1775, Dec. 15, - 34.

CHAPLAIN, None. On Sunday a Prisoner reads Prayers and dines with the Keeper.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THE Sheriff's Ward or Prison is in the Parish of St. Thomas the Apostle, in the County of Devon.

The rooms are large and convenient, but out of repair. Court-yard spacious. Good rules of oeconomy. An humane Keeper. He has a good fire for Common-side Debtors — he said he would gladly relinquish his Fees for a Salary of £100 — and told me that during his time, about twelve years, no more than four or five Debtors had obtained their aliment, the Groats.

374 DEVONSHIRE. Western Circuit.

1760 SHERIFF'S WARD.

[Devon, to wit.]

AT the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held at the Castle of Exon the 15th Jan. 1760 before Richard Beavis Esqr. George Tanner, William Clifford Martin, William Kittson, Esqrs. and others &c. The Court having considered the report of Sir Richard Warwick Bamfylde Bart. Sir George Younge Bart. Henry Crewes Esqr. and John Snow Clerk, Justices of &c. — appointed to enquire into Fees taken by the present Keeper and Gaoler of this County, and having considered the Table of Fees heretofore taken by the Keeper of the Sheriff's Ward, and the Fees taken by the Keeper of the High Gaol and Keeper of the Bridewell of this County doth in pursuance of an Act — entitled &c. — settle and establish the following Table of Rates and Fees of the Keepers of the said several Prisons &c.

A TABLE of the RATES and FEES allowed to be taken by the Keeper of the Sheriff's Ward for the County of Devon.

£. S. D.

For the commitment fee of every Prisoner for debt, damages, and contempts though it be on several actions or processes only — 0: 13: 4

To the Turnkey — 0: 1: 0

For every liberate — 0: 2: 0

For the use of a bed in a single room for one person by the week — 0: 3: 0

The use of a room where there are two or more beds and two lodge in a bed each person by the week — 0: 1: 3

The use of the common room if the Keeper finds bedding each person by the week — 0: 1: 0

If the Prisoner finds bedding — nothing

We do hereby approve and ratify the Table of Fees above written pursuant to the said Statute

E WILMOT

Rd Warwick Bamfylde

Nichs Nutcombe Bluett

Henry Crewes

E Wilmot

Wm. Noel

Western Circuit. DEVONSHIRE. 375

RULES and ORDERS to be observed in the Sheriff's Ward or Prison for the County of Devon.

Chas Hayne, Sheriff.

NO Prisoner to abuse the Turnkeys — if they do — to be confined.

If Turnkeys use them ill — to complain to Under-Sheriff or Keeper.

Doors of lodging rooms — to be unlocked — in winter — at sun rising — in summer at six.

Prisoners to be called over within the fore-door — at candle-lighting — and locked up in their several rooms at nine at night.

Fore-gate to be locked at nine at night in summer, at eight in winter.

No Prisoner — to go outside of the rails towards the fore-gate.

No comber or weaver to work in lodging rooms.

No Prisoner's Family, or Wife, to lodge in the Prison without consent of Keeper.

No Prisoner to be without the fore-door of the Prison-house on Sundays in time of Divine Service.

No person to bring any Spirituous Liquors into the Prison.

After the door is shut at night no large jugs-of beer to be brought, but pints or quarts may be put in at the window.

No Prisoner to throw any rubbish in the pump yard.

No Prisoner to keep any dog.

No wood to be cut or cleaved in the chambers — it spoils the plaistering.

Keeper to place any Prisoner where he thinks proper for safety.

No Prisoner to remove his bed without Keeper's consent.

376 DEVONSHIRE. Western Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at EXETER,

in St. Thomas's.

Spacious, but out of repair: the windows small and glazed; yet no casements. An Infirmary. — Keeper's Salary £60: no Fees. He is a Woollen Manufacturer, and employs some of his Prisoners. Others of them might work in the large Garden and Yard at Ropemaking, Packthread-spinning &c. His number of Prisoners for three years was in 1772, 92; in 1773, 163; in 1774, 144. When I was there last, eight or ten of the Prisoners were women and yet the house was dirty. Allowance two-pennyworth of bread a day (weight in Sep. 1774, 19½ ounces). The County have appointed a Chaplain, with a Salary of £30, and a House joining to the Prison which he lets for £6 a year.

1774, Sep. 12, Prisoners 22,

1775, Dec. 24, - 34.

Western Circuit. DEVONSHIRE. 377

EXETER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Sarah Strong,

Salary, £20.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 16: 4,

Felons, 0: 14: 4.

Transports, the Expense.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, three-halfpennyworth of bread a day each.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 3: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 20, - 11 - 1,

1775, Dec. 15, - 7 - 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None. But ordered for Felons by the Chamber upon occasion.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, called the South-gate Prison, has in the Keeper's house convenient apartments for Debtors. The three wards on the other side of the gateway, for Felons, are very close and offensive: no chimney: no court-yard: no water: no sewer.

Here are sent fifty-one penny loaves every week to the Debtors; if only one, he has the whole, if more, they are equally divided amongst

378 DEVONSHIRE. Western Circuit.

[EXETER CITY.]

them: from what Legacies they come is not known in the Gaol, as no other Memorial is hung up than two painted boards, which contain Memorials of sundry Bequests. They are not dated; one of them seems ancient. I will transcribe the Legacies from these after the Table of Fees.

City and County of the City of Exon (to wit) } 

FEES of the Gaoler or Keeper — of the Gaol — called the Compter — at the South-Gate — settled — the General Quarter Sessions — held at the Guild-Hall — 10th April — 11th George II — 1738 — in pursuance of an Act for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

For the Commitment Fee of every Prisoner for Debt, Damages, Contempt or otherwise though it be on several Actions or Processes — 0: 13: 4

To the Turnkey — 0: 1: 0

For every Liberate — 0: 2: 0

For the use of a bed in a single room for one person per week — 0: 3: 0

For the use of a room wherein are two or more beds, and two lodge in each bed, then for each bed — 0: 2: 6

For the use of the Common room the Prisoner finding the bed — 0: 0: 6

But the Keeper finding the bed then per week — 0: 1: 0

Arthur Culme Mayor

Nathl Dewdney

Thos Coppleston

The above Table of Fees hath been reviewed and confirmed by us his Majesty's Justices of Assize for the Western Summer Circuit held in and for the City of Exon and County of the same City. 24th July 1738.

J FORTESCUE

Wm THOMPSON

Western Circuit. DEVONSHIRE. 379

[EXETER CITY.]

LEGACIES.

A MEMORIALL of certayne Guyftes to the yeerlie value of Twenty Poundes geeven by Laurence Seldon, and Elizabeth, his Wife, to be distributed by the Maior and Bayliffes of the Cittie of Exon for ever as followith:

In Bread weeklie to the Poore - Shills yeerly

Prisoners in the Kinges Gaole neer the Castell of Exon - 6d. - 26

Prisoners in the Sherives Warde, Gaole, and Counter of the Cittie of Exon - 2s. 6d. - £6 . 10 . 0

The other articles in this piece of antiquity, such as 2s. 6d. a year to the Mayor of the City &c. I must omit as foreign to my purpose.

The memorial on the other board is as follows:

Exon Southgate. Mrs. Hester Reed gave sixpence a week for ever, to this Prison to be paid out of a Tenement called Ven in the Parish of Culemton, and laid out in middling wheat bread and distributed always to the Prisoners in the Shew.*

* The Shew or Shoe is the Common ward for poor Debtors, who beg by letting down a shoe.

380 DEVONSHIRE. Western Circuit.

PLYMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms for Felons; and a large room above for Debtors. One of the former, the Clink, seventeen feet by eight, about five feet and a half high, with a wicket in the door seven inches by five to admit light and air. To this, as I was informed, three men who were confined near two months under sentence of Transportation, came by turns for breath. The door had not been opened for five weeks when I with difficulty entered to see a pale inhabitant. He had been there ten weeks under sentence of Transportation, and said he had much rather have been hanged than confined in that noisome cell. No yard: no water: no sewer. The Gaolers live distant: they are three Sergeants at Mace. Fees 15s. 10d. no Table. Allowance to Debtors, none but on application: Felons two-pennyworth of bread a day. No straw.

Debtors. Felon.

1774, Sep. 15, 3 - 1

1775, Dec. 17, 0 - 0

Western Circuit. CORNWALL. 381

COUNTY GAOL at LAUNCESTON,

FOR FELONS.

GAOLER, John Mules, Deputy, under Coryndon Carpenter Esq. Constable of the Castle.

Salary, lately augmented by the County from £8 to £12.

Fees, Felons, £0: 16: 8.

Transports, 4d. a mile each.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Felons, a three-penny loaf each in two days; white or brown at their option (weight in Dec. 1775, of white bread 1 lb. 10 oz. brown 2 lb.)

Number of - Felons

1774, Feb. 19, - 11,

1774, Sep. 13, - 8,

1775, Dec. 23, - 6.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Lethbridge.

Duty — Tuesday and Friday.

Salary, lately reduced from £50 to £30.

SURGEON, Mr. Bennet.

Salary, £15.

382 CORNWALL. Western Circuit.

LAUNCESTON.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, though built in a large yard belonging to the old ruinous Cattle, is very small; house and court measuring only fifty two feet by forty four; and the house not covering half that ground. The Prison is a room or passage twenty three feet and a half by seven and a half, with only one window two feet by one and a half: — and three Dungeons or Cages on the side opposite the window: these are about six and half feet deep; one nine feet long; one about eight; one not five: this last for women. They are all very offensive. No chimney: no drains: no water: damp earth floors: no Infirmary. The yard not secure; and Prisoners seldom permitted to go out to it. Indeed the whole Prison is out of repair, and yet the Gaoler lives distant. I once found the Prisoners chained two or three together. Their provision is put down to them through a hole in the floor of the room above (used as a Chapel); and those who serve them there, often catch the fatal fever. At my first visit I found the Keeper, his Assistant, and all the Prisoners but one, sick of it: and heard that a few years before, many Prisoners had died of it; and the Keeper and his wife in one night.

I learned that a woman who was discharged just before my first visit (by the Grand Jury making a collection for her Fees) had been confined three years by the Ecclesiastical Court; and had three children in the Gaol. There is no Table of Fees.

The King, of his Royal Bounty, has offered two thousand pounds towards a new Gaol; but nothing is done by the County.

I was edified by the serious behaviour of the Chaplain at Prayers.

Western Circuit. CORNWALL. 383

The Prisoners respect him, and were very attentive. He has a large family: I was sorry for the late reduction of his Salary.

The Mayor sends the Prisoners weekly one shilling's worth of bread: no memorial of the legacy in the Gaol. Transports have not the King's allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BODMIN.

The County pays £20 a year for this Prison. It is much out of repair; and the walls round the yard not safe enough to let Prisoners use it. The night rooms are two garrets, with small sky-lights seventeen inches by twelve, close glazed. I was informed that a few years ago the Gaol-Fever was very fatal, not only in the Prison, but also in the Town. Keeper's Salary lately raised from £20 to £28. Fees 16s. 8d. no Table. Allowance a three-penny loaf in two days; (weight, Dec. 1775, 31 oz.) No employment. A Surgeon to this Bridewell; his Salary £20.

1774, Sep. 14, Prisoners 19,

1775, Dec. 12, - 29.

384 CORNWALL. Western Circuit.

SHERIFF'S WARD at BODMIN,

the COUNTY PRISON for debtors.

KEEPER, Joseph Gatty.

Salary, £25.

Fees, Debtors, £0 : 13: 4,

Besides 0: 4: 1 to the Sheriff.

Licence, of late none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, none.

Garnish, £0: 2: 0.

Number of Debtors.

1774, Sep. 14, - 19,

1775, Dec. 22, - 18.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS PRISON, for which the Sheriff pays £20 a year, is out of repair. A spacious back-yard; with a stream running through it. The Keeper pays Window-tax £3: 7: 0, and I saw some windows were stopped up. — He said he had been Keeper above twenty years; and during the whole time had but four Prisoners who obtained from their Creditors the allowance commonly called the Groats.

Western Circuit. CORNWALL. 385

FALMOUTH TOWN GAOL.

Two rooms: no court-yard: no water.

1775, Dec. 19, Prisoners none.

TRURO TOWN GAOL.

Built about two years ago upon a good plan. Two houses in front, for the two Sergeants at Mace who are the Keepers. Cross the yard is the Prison which consists of four convenient rooms, two of them vaulted: no pump.

1775, Dec. 18, Prisoners none.

PENZANCE TOWN GAOL.

Two close rooms: no court - yard: no water.

1775, Dec. 21, Prisoners none.

At PENZANCE is also

A PRISON for the Hundred and Liberties of PENWITH,

The Property of Lord Arundel. Two rooms in the Keeper's liable-yard; but distant from his house, and quite out of sight and hearing. The room for men is full eleven feet square, and six high: window eighteen inches square: no chimney. Earth floor; very damp. The door had not been opened for four weeks when I went in; and then the Keeper began shoveling away the dirt. — There was only one Debtor, who seemed to have been robust, but was grown pale by ten weeks close confinement, with little food, which he had from a brother, who is poor and has a family. He said, the dampness of the Prison, with but little straw, had obliged him (he spoke with sorrow) to send for the bed on which some of his children lay.

386 CORNWALL. Western Circuit.

He had a wife and ten children, two of whom died since he came thither, and the rest were almost starving. — He has written me a letter since, by which I learn that his distress was not mitigated, and that he had a companion, miserable as himself. — No allowance. Keeper no Salary: Fees 8s. 4d. every action, no Table.

A year or two ago five Prisoners, I was informed, grew desperate by what they suffered in this wretched Prison, and broke out.

1775, Dec. 21, Prisoner 1.

LOSTWITHIEL GAOL for debtors,

Is the Property of the Duke of Cornwall, Lord of the Stannaries. It was lately repaired and whitewashed. The Rules extend over the whole Borough. The Keeper told me that he lately had a Prisoner who was arrested for £6: the man had a large family, and not a bad character; yet the Plaintiff paid him his groats for two years; and dying then, bound his Estate for the continual Payment of them: but the Insolvent Act freed the Prisoner and the Estate. — Keeper no Salary; Fees 13s. 4d. no Table.

1774, Sep. 14, Prisoners 4,

1775, Dec. 18, - 2.

PENRYN GAOL for debtors.

St. Leonard's Chapel: the Property of the Earl of Godolphin. One room thirteen feet square, six high: window about two feet by one foot four inches. Keeper (a woman) complained of paying Rent £4, and of the Prison window being taxed with those in her house.

1775, Dec. 19, Prisoners none.

Western Circuit. SOMERSETSHIRE. 387

COUNTY GAOL at IVELCHESTER.

GAOLER, Edward Scadding.

Salary, of late, £25.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 14: 4,

Felons, 0: 6: 8.

Transports, £3: 12: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two pence a day each, money; lately altered to the value in standard-bread.

Garnish, £0 : 3 : 6. 

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 21, - 31 - 22,

1774, Aug. 2, - 45 - 18,

1775, Dec. 14, - 34 - 17.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Dumett; now Rev. Mr. Pester.

Duty — Sunday, Wednesday, Friday.

Salary, £50.

SURGEON, Mr. Shorland.

Salary, £8.

388 SOMERSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

IVELCHESTER.

[Remarks.]

THE GAOL is near the river, and has no offensive sewers. The apartments roomy; but the court-yards too little. They might be enlarged eastward. Men-felons have no day-room: a room, which is fit, and seems to have been designed for that use, is taken by the Gaoler for a stable. Assizes never held here. Prisoners are moved for trial to the Bridewell at Taunton; or to Bridgewater where the Prison is only one room; or to Wells where there is no Prison at all: and yet, at Midsummer Assize 1775 the Prisoners were kept in that City eight days.

Every time I was here I saw one Thomas Hayes who was committed by order of the Ecclesiastical Court.

Ivelchester, Somersetshire. July 29 1761

A True Copy of the RULES and FEES &c. belonging to Ivelchester Gaol signed by the underwritten Gentlemen.

£. S. D.

First To the Fees at the Discharge of the Debtor — 0 : 13 : 4

To the Turnkey — 0 : 1 : 0

For every Debtor's lodging singly weekly including the use of a bed and bedding — 0 : 1 : 6

But if two lodge together each to pay weekly — o ; 0 ; 9

The Gaoler is not to compel any Debtor to lodge single.

Western Circuit SOMERSETSHIRE. 389

£. S. D.

If a Debtor has a bed and bedding of his own then to pay weekly — 0: 1: 0

If he lodges in the Out-wards, to pay per week — 0: 0: 6

If a bed of his own — 0: 0: 0

Edwd Phelips Esq.

Rev. Dr. Camplin Doctor of Laws

Jno Brigdale,

WM Rodbard,

Giles Strangeway,

Justices of the Peace.

These Laws were approved of and signed by the under-written Judges July 29. 1761

EARDLY WILMOT

Wm NOEL

Examined by John Donne Clerk o£the Peace

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

TAUNTON. Convenient apartments, court-yard, pump &c. If the windows, especially that in the sick ward (lately added) were enlarged, and the Prison be constantly kept as clean as it was last time I saw it, they would have little to apprehend from the Gaol-Fever; which, six years ago, for want of an Infirmary and separation, infected the whole Prison, so that of nineteen Prisoners eight died, — Allowance two-pence a day:

390 SOMERSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

[Bridewells.]

no employment. Keeper's Salary £15: Fees 14s. 4d. no Table. Licence for Beer. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

The County have generously gone to the limit of the Act; and appointed to the Chaplain of this Bridewell, and of that at Shepton-Mallet (as well as to the Chaplain of the County-Gaol) a Salary of £50.

1774, Aug. 2, Prisoners 7,

1774, Sep. 10, - 5,

1775, Dec. 14, - 16.

SHEPTON-MALLET. One day-room for men and women. Men's night-room too close; only one small window. The women's night-room too little; the Keeper has taken what seems to have been part of it, to make his malt-loft. — He told me his Prison was some years ago so unhealthy that he buried three or four a week: no Infirmary. He is a Sheriffs Officer. Licence for Beer: Salary £26: Fees 14s. 4d. no Table. Allowance two pence a day: no employment. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. Chaplain, see Taunton.

1774, Feb. 21, Prisoners 44,

1774, Aug. 3, - 10,

1775, Dec. 13, - 29.

Western Circuit. SOMERSETSHIRE. 391

BRISTOL CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Henry Williams; now William Driver.

Salary, none. Gown-money £2 year.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 6: 8,

Felons, 0: 13: 4.

Transports, £5: 5: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a pennyworth of bread a day, before Trial; two-pennyworth of bread after Conviction,

Garnish, £0: 2: 7.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Feb. 22, - 58 - 38,

1774, Aug. 23, - 33 - 15,

1775, Dec. 7, - 36 - 16,

1776, Dec. 16, - 35 - 18.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Easterbrook.

Duty — Sunday, Wednesday, Friday. (See Remarks.)

Salary, £36.

SURGEON, Mr. Abel Dagge.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

392 SOMERSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

BRISTOL-NEW GATE.

[Remarks.]

THIS NEWGATE (as that in the Metropolis) stands in the midst of the City. It is too small for the general number of Prisoners. For Debtors there are about fifteen rooms; yet no free ward. The poorest pay ten pence halfpenny a week: others two shillings and six-pence. — For Women-felons, a day-room and several night-rooms. — For Men-felons, a day-room, with a court-yard adjacent twenty feet by twelve. Their dungeon, the Pit, down eighteen steps, is about eighteen feet by seventeen, and nine feet high: barrack-bedsteads: no bedding nor straw. It is close and offensive: only a small window. — There is another yard, the Tennis-Court, larger than that of the Felons: Prisoners are admitted into it by turns. — A room or two at the top of the house for an Infirmary. — There are many narrow passages: the utmost attention is requisite to keep the Prison healthy. I found it clean; considering it was so crowded and so close. It was scraped and lime-whited once a year before the late Act for preserving the health of Prisoners. That Act is neatly painted on a board hung up in the Chapel, which is commodious and has a gallery: several Texts of Scripture are painted in sundry parts of it. — Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors are not hung up. No Table of Gaoler's Fees.

The Rev. Mr. James Rouquet has been unwearied in attention to the spiritual and temporal interests of the Prisoners; officiating near twenty years without a Salary. He had only once a Gratuity of £20*.

* This was written before November 1776, when Mr. Rouquet died in the forty-seventh year of his age. The general Sorrow, and the Sermons preached and printed on that Occasion, do more than justify what I have said concerning the Zeal of this pious Divine.

Western Circuit. SOMERSETSHIRE. 393

Mr. Easterbrook lately appointed. Besides the Service noted in its place, there are thirteen Sermons a year, for which the Preacher has £4.

John Hevdon left £100 to be lent to two Merchants, each paying annually to the Corporation for the Prisoners as Interest of his Moiety £1: 13: 4. — Mrs. Aldsworth left about £5 a year, to be paid by the Parish of All-Saints; two thirds of it to Debtors, who receive the money usually on Christmas-Eve; the other third part is generally laid out in coverlids or blankets for Felons. No Memorial in the Gaol of any Legacy.

A TABLE of FEES Town Clerk. Bristol.

£. S. D.

Discharge of Prisoners from the highest Felony to the lowest Misdemeanor — 0: 13: 4

BRISTOL CITY BRIDEWELL.

Part of it is in the Keeper's house, on one side of a common foot way: and part on the other side. In the Keeper's house, the Master's-side, are three rooms: one a day room; in the other two are beds at six pence a night. — The Common-side, the new Bridewell, cross the way, consists of two parts separated by a court-yard of about fifty feet by seventeen. Each part has two rooms on the ground floor, and two chambers. Total eight rooms, about eighteen feet square; windows to the court-yard; no chimnies. The Court being quite out of sight of the Keeper's house, he does not suffer Prisoners to use it; nor

394 SOMERSETSHIRE. Western Circuit.

the pump in it. They have no water but what is handed to them; and all the rooms are very dirty. Little or no straw: no employment. Keeper's Salary lately raised from £20 to £30. He receives the money for bread allowance, two-pence a day: but the Prisoners assured me, that what he gave them from his own loaf was far short of two penny-worth. In Dec. 1775 there was an acquitted Woman Prisoner detained for Fees 3s. 6d. Those Fees were paid, and the Prisoner was released. — Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up.

1774, Aug. 23, Prisoners 6,

1775. Dec. 8, - 5,

1776, Dec. 16, - 7.

BATH CITY GAOL.

The ascent to this Prison, lately built in a meadow which is sometimes overflowed, is by a fine flight of Steps. On the ground-floor is the Keeper's kitchen &c. and some rooms for Petty Offenders. Above are three stories; five rooms on each: one or two of them used by the Keeper: the rest for Debtors; one bed in a room, in which if two Prisoners sleep, they pay two shillings a week each; if one has it to himself he pays two shillings and six pence a week. Two rooms on the second story are a free ward; on the upper floor is their workshop. There is a court-yard with often five sewers too near the house. — Keeper a Sheriff's Officer: no Salary: Fees, if from the Court of Conscience 3s. 6d. these Debtors are cleared in thirteen weeks paying those Fees: Debtors for large sums 7s. 8d. no

Western Circuit. SOMERSETSHIRE. 395

Table. Licence for beer. Allowance, to Debtors, none; to Offenders 2d. a day: no straw. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. — The City will perhaps appoint a Chaplain and a Surgeon.

Debtors. - Offenders.

1774, Aug. 6, - 16 - 2,

75, Dec. 12. - 14 - 1,

1776, Dec. 16, - 11 - 0, Deserters 3

BRIDGEWATER TOWN GAOL.

Only one middle sized room: and one of the two windows stopped up. In this room at Midsummer Quarter Sessions 1774 were shut up twenty seven Prisoners. At Summer Assize the same year, thirteen; two of them, Women. Assize generally lasts from Monday to Saturday. The Keeper's mother complained to me of the confusion and distress occasioned by confining Prisoners thus for so long a time. She said there were but few, at any time, who could pay for beds, and separate rooms.

1774, Sep. 10, Prisoners none.

396 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL, YORK CASTLE.

GAOLER, Thomas Wharton; now William Clayton.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 8: 8,

Felons, 0: 9: 6,

Admission, 0: 3: 4.

Transports, £10: 10: 0

Licence, for Beer and Wine

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, certified by their Parish, } a six-penny loaf each on Tuesday and Friday (weight, Nov. 1774, 3lb. 2oz.).

Felons, }

Garnish, cancelled in 1774.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Jan. 25, - 110 - 33,

1774, Nov. 3, - 49 - 30,

1776, Jan. 26, - 89 -44,

1776, Sep. 21, - 33 - 32.

CHAPLAINS, Rev. Mr. Peacock, and Rev. Mr. Bridges.

Duty — Mr. Peacock Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday; and from Lady-day to Michaelmas, Sunday. Mr. Bridges a Sermon on Friday.

Salary, Mr. Peacock £30 from the County; Mr. Bridges £25 from a Legacy. Not in the List.

SURGEON, Mr. Stilingfleet.

Salary, £40 for Debtors and Felons.

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 397

YORK CASTLE.

[Remarks.]

IN THE SPACIOUS AREA is a noble Prison for Debtors, which does honour to the County. You ascend by a fine flight of stone steps to a floor on which are eleven rooms, full sixteen feet square, near twelve feet high. Above them is the same number of rooms: one or two of these, for Common-side Debtors. The rooms are airy and healthy. On the ground-floor are the Gaoler's apartments &c.

The Felons court-yard is down five steps: it is too small, and has no water: the pump is just on the outside of the palisades. The day-room for men is only twenty-six feet by eight: in it are three cells: in another place nine cells: and three in another. The cells are in general about seven feet and a half by six and a half, and eight and a half high; close and dark; having only either a hole over the door about four inches by eight, or some perforations in the door of about an inch diameter: not any of them to the open air, but into passages or entries. In most of these cells three Prisoners are locked up at night; in winter for fourteen to sixteen hours: straw on the stone floors; no bedsteads. There are four condemned rooms about seven feet square. — A sewer in one of the passages often makes these parts of the Gaol very offensive: and I cannot say they are clean. Indeed a clean Prison is scarcely ever seen, where the Water is to be brought in by the Gaoler's servants. The next house to the Castle-gate, and others in the neighbourhood, have river-water laid in at a moderate expense.

Women-felons are kept quite separate: they have two courtyards, but no water: you go down four steps to their two rooms, a day and a night room. Their condemned room is in another part of the Gaol: near it is a room to confine Debtors who do not behave well.

398 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

[York Castle.]

The Infirmary near the gate is only one middle-sized room. When Prisoners of one sex are there, those of the other are excluded. A sick man was kept out for that reason when I was there.

At Assize some Prisoners appear in Court on their trial in the County-cloathing.*

The County pays one John Sherwood £10 a year to inspect and weigh the Bread, and deliver it to the Prisoners. He constantly attends for this purpose on Tuesday and Friday.

Transports convicted at Quarter Sessions have, besides the bread allowance, one shilling a week. Those cast at Assize have the King's Allowance of 2s. 6d. a week.

There is a grand Shire-Hall in the Castle yard almost finished. I hope the Gentlemen of this great County will not stop there; but proceed to build a proper Prison for Felons; in which Boys may be separated from Old Offenders, and the other Inconveniences of the present Gaol avoided.

[Yorkshire.]

ORDERS and FEES settled by the Justices of the Peace of the several Ridings of the County of York and confirmed by the Justices of Assize — which are to be observed and kept by the Gaoler — and all Prisoners — until the same shall be Legally altered.

£. S. D.

First That every Knight shall pay for his weekly Commons at Table if he eats with them — 0: 13: 4

For his Fee if committed by Warrant on a Civil Action — 0: 13: 4

Every Esquire for his Commons at table weekly if he eats with them — 0: 10: 4

For his Fee if committed by Warrant on a Civil Action — 0: 10: 4

* See a more judicious practice, page 312.

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 399

[York Castle.]

£. S. D.

Every Gentleman for his Commons at table weekly if he eats with them — 0: 8: 0

For his Fee if committed by Warrant on a Civil Action — 0: 8: 0

Every Yeoman, Tradesman or Artificer for his Weekly Commons at table if he eats with them — 0: 6: 8

For his Fee if committed by Warrant on a Civil Action — 0: 3: 4

And it is further ordered that every Knight shall pay nightly for his bed — 0: 0: 6

Every Esquire for the same — 0: 0: 6

Every Gentleman for the same — 0: 0: 4

Every Yeoman Tradesman or Artificer for the same — 0: 0: 2

And that when the Gaoler lodgeth two or more Prisoners in one bed they shall pay for their lodgings amongst them after the rates above

And every Prisoner who provides his own bed and bedding shall have a room assigned suitable to his or their quality and shall pay nothing for the same

And that upon the Discharge of a Debtor if there be several Actions against him the Gaoler shall take no more than one Fee and that to be — 0: 6: 8

And upon the Discharge of every Debtor to the Turnkeys, and no more — 0: 2: 0

And that every Prisoner shall have liberty to provide and send for victuals drink and other necessaries from any place whatsoever at all seasonable times for their own proper use only and not to sell the same.

And every Prisoner committed from the Bar by the Judge or Judges of Assize and Gaol Delivery in the Assize week shall pay for their Commitment Fee only — 0: 2: 0

And every Person committed to the Gaol for suspicion of Felony, or for Misdemeanor, if upon his or her trial he or she shall be found not guilty and be there-upon discharged, shall pay to the Gaoler for his Discharging Fee — 0: 6: 8

And to the Turnkeys — 0: 2: 0

400 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

[York Castle.]

£. S. D.

And that every Person convicted or attainted of Felony or found guilty of a Misdemeanor which shall be reprieved and discharged by Pardon shall pay to the Gaoler for his Discharging Fee — 0: 7: 6

And to the Turnkey — 0: 2: 0

And every Person that shall appear upon Recognizance for suspicion of Felony and is thereupon committed to Gaol and shall not be indicted but acquitted by Proclamation, shall be discharged paying to the Gaoler — 0: 2: 0

And all others that shall be committed to Gaol before the Assizes or Gaol-Delivery and shall not be indicted but acquitted by Proclamation be discharged paying to the Gaoler — 0: 2: 0

Yorkshire, to wit.

At the Assizes — held at the Castle of York — 14th July 1735 — the 9th of George II. before the Honourable Alexander Denton Esquire one of his Majesty's Justices of the Court of Common Pleas, and the Honourable William Lee Esquire one of his Majesty's Justices of the Court of King's Bench, Assigned to deliver the said Gaol — these Orders and Fees, were allowed and approved of by

ALEX DENTON

Wm LEE

Yorkshire East Riding

John Grimston

Ramsden Barnard

Tho. Grimston

West Riding of Yorkshire

Geo Nelthorpe

N Hawey

North Riding of Yorkshire

John Dodsworth

John Milbanke

John Wastell

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 401

[York Castle.]

An ACCOUNT of the CHARITY given to the Prisoners in his Majesty's Gaol the Castle of York.

£. S. D.

The Lady Lumley, to be given yearly on St. Thomas's day and paid by the Lord Mayor of York — 6: 7: 0

The Honourable and ancient City of York weekly in bread — 0: 2: 6

Mrs. Frances Thornhill for straw, the Lord Mayor of York has £30 in his hands for that purpose — 1: 10: 0

Dr. Phineas Hodgesion paid weekly in rolls to all that hear sermons — 0: 2: 0

Alderman White's bread by the name of Swain's bread, paid out of a close belonging to John Legg, quarterly 6s. 6d. — 1: 6: 0

Mr. Bowes gave twenty shillings to be paid quarterly in bread — 1: 0: 0

Mrs. Mary Lawson of Micklegate in the City of York widow by will dated the 22d July 1729 gave £100 for the discharging of poor Prisoners for debt out of the county Gaol of York whose debts did not exceed the sum of £20 — and her Executrixes — Mrs. Catherine Bower — and Mrs. Ann Maxwell discharged with said money thirty two Prisoners

The Right Honourable Richard Earl of Burlington and Sir George Savile Bart, gave each of them ten guineas for the like use — with which twenty guineas the Rev. Mr Kayley ordinary of the said Gaol discharged eighteen Prisoners.

402 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

WEST-RIDING, WAKEFIELD. This showy Prison is unfortunately built upon low ground; so that it is damp, and exposed to floods. Four of the wards are spacious; but all the wards are made very offensive by sewers, which are dark withal. Prison and Court-yard out of sight from the Keeper's house, though adjoining; and some Prisoners have escaped. They are now let out to the court only half an hour in the day. The wards are very dirty: a Prison on ground so low as this, requires the utmost attention to cleanliness. — Keeper's Salary lately raised from £80 to £105 he contrasting to supply straw and coals. No Fees. No allowance of food, but by order of a Justice: little or no employment. Two rooms for an Infirmary almost finished.

1774, Nov. 4, Prisoners 27,

1776, Jan. 11, - 32,

1776, Oct. 27, - 19.

NORTH-RIDING, THIRSK. The County has ground enough about this Prison, and might enlarge it. If they do, they will think of an Infirmary. The Keeper told me his Prisoners had the Gaol-Fever not long ago. His Salary £26: 10: 0. No Fees. No straw: no employment.

1776, Jan. 13, Prisoners 3.

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 403

EAST-RIDING, BEVERLEY. On the ground-floor three small night-rooms; and a new work-room with a chimney: above, four rooms for those that pay. In the court-yard not only a pump, but a cistern of rain-water. Coals two chaldron and a half a year. No straw: no employment. The Keeper has been in his office above forty years: Salary £30: Fees 4s. no Table.

1774, Nov. 2, Prisoners 2,

1776, Jan. 28, - 1,

1776, Sep. 21, - 2.

At BEVERLEY are also the

TOWN GAOL. It has on the ground-floor two rooms not fronting the street, for Men-criminals: and above, a room for Women; and two for Debtors. No water: no straw. Keeper's Salary £3: Fees 4s. no Table. Licence for Beer.

Debtors. - Criminals.

1774, Nov. 2, - 1 - None,

1776, Jan. 28, - 2 - None,

1776, Sep. 21, - 1 - 1.

HALL-GARTH for debtors, in the Liberty of St. Johns of Beverley: Property of Charles Anderson Pelham, Esq. built a few years since, has over the Hall five sizeable rooms, two of them have fire-places. No court-yard: no water. Fees 4s. 2d. no Table. I have a list of 113 Towns or Parts of Towns, that are within the Liberty of St. John's of Beverley or Beverley-Hall-Garth.

17743 Nov. 2, - Prisoners 2,

1776, Jan. 28, - None,

1776, Sep. 21, - None.

404 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

YORK CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Quintin Ackam; now Francis Meggeson.

Salary, none: he pays £10: 10: 0 a year to the Under-Sheriff.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 6: 4,

Felons, 0: 7: 8.

Transports, probably the same as at the Castle.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but Legacies. (See Remarks.)

Felons, of late, two six-penny loaves a week each (weight in Nov. 1774, 3lb. 2oz.).

Garnish, £0: 7: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Jan. 25, - 11 - 7,

1774, Nov. 3, - 5 - 1,

1776, Jan. 26, - 9 - 3,

1776, Sep. 21, - 10 - 2, and 2 Deserters.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Wallis, occasionally.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL upon Ouse-Bridge, called the Kidcots, has on one side of the bridge four convenient chambers for Debtors, about eleven feet square: for these they pay six pence a week. Below them is a free ward with barrack-beds; and a room to the street. At the window they sell nets, purses, laces, &c.

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 405

[York City.]

The Men-felons Ward on the other side is down eleven steps: that adjoining, for women, down ten. The two night rooms for Men are each six feet and a half by five. The night room for Women about six feet square. All the rooms for Felons, are close and offensive: no amendment since the late Act. The wooden door stands open in the day time, to give them a little air. At the inner door, which is of iron grates, I have seen liquors handed to those who seemed to have had enough before. — No water, but when there is too much; that is, in a very high flood, then it flows into the rooms. — Gaoler a Sheriff's Officer for City and County.

It were in vain to offer any hints of improvement. This Gaol cannot be made a good one.

The Corporation pays free-ward Debtors one shilling and two pence three farthings a week by a Legacy of Mr. Peacock. No memorial of this in the Gaol. But there is a memorandum of another Legacy, viz. of Elizabeth Taylor, who by her Will dated 2st of October 1580 left 3s. 4d. to be divided equally among the Prisoners in Ouse-Bridge Gaol on Lady-day. This has not been received by them for some years.

[City of York.]

AT the General Quarter Sessions — at Guildhall — 15th July — 1737 before the Right Honourable Sir John Lister Kaye Bart. Lord Mayor — Thomas Place Esqr. Recorder — Charles Slingby Esqr. of Counsel — Sir Tancred Robinson Bart — &c.

GAOLER's FEES settled and ORDERS made &c.

£. S. D.

For the Discharge of every Debtor for the first Action, to the Gaoler — 0: 5: 4

And for the Discharge of every other Action to him — 0: 1: 0

406 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

[York City.]

£. S. D.

To the Porter or Turnkey for the first Action — 0: 1: 0

And for every other Action to him — 0: 0: 6

For the Discharge of every other person from the Assizes or Sessions to the Gaoler — 0: 6: 8

And to the Turnkey — 0: 1: 0

For the first weeks diet of all persons in the upper Gaol — 0: 7: 0

And for all further time as the Prisoner and Gaoler can agree. And the Gaoler is to permit Prisoners to provide their own diet after the first week if the Prisoner pleases.

For Lodging if the Gaoler finds bed bedding and sheets for the first night — 0: 0: 6

And for every other night — 0: 0: 3

And if two lie in one bed for the first night each — 0: 0: 4

And for the second and every other night each — 0: 0: 2

For lodging in the upper Gaol if the Prisoner finds his own bed, bedding and sheets for every week — 0: 0: 6

If two in a bed each — 0: 0: 3

And every Prisoner shall have liberty of finding the same if he thinks proper. And the Gaoler shall have liberty if he sees occasion to have two beds in each room and no more.

And it is ordered that every person of what degree or condition so ever — who shall use — swearing, cursing, railing or other indecent behaviour — shall — pay for every such offence twelve pence to the Gaoler or his deputy on demand; and on refusal — to be levied by distress on goods — or stopped out of share of box-money — or stand in charge to be paid before release — the Fines to be distributed at Gaoler's discretion amongst the most needful in the Low Gaol.

Every Prisoner who attempts — or assists an escape — to be ironed.

Those who mutiny on Gaoler or Deputies — or hinder or disturb &c. — to be kept in close confinement.

On default of weekly payments aforesaid — after demand and refusal — a Prisoner may be moved from the Master's-side — to the Common Room.

J L Kaye, Mayor.

T. Place

Sam. Clarke.

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 407

YORK CITY BRIDEWELL

Has a day-room for Men, and another for Women: the latter is very damp. Down four steps are five night-rooms for Men; and a large one, with barrack-bedsteads, for Women. The whole dirty and offensive. No regard paid to the late Act for preserving Health. No court-yard: no water: no sewer. Keeper's Salary £20: Fees 2s. Straw twenty shillings a year: no bread allowance: little or no employment.

1774, Nov. 3, Prisoners 3,

1776, Jan. 26, - 1,

1776, Sep. 20, - 4.

St. PETER'S GAOL,

For the Liberty of St. Peter of York, near the Minster-gate, is the Property of the Dean; who holds his Courts here. He has lately purchased an adjoining Tenement for his Gaoler to live in: in consequence of which, the two rooms in which he lived before are added to the Debtors apartments, and they have now four rooms. Under those are two cells for Criminals. All out of repair, dirty and offensive: no court-yard: no sewers. No allowance.

I have a printed list of Parishes, Towns, and Parts of Towns which are in the Liberty of St. Peter. — Within the City and Ainsty nine Places: in the East-Riding sixty-two; West-Riding forty; North-Riding fifty-one: and there is one Place in each of the following Counties, Devonshire, Gloucestershire, Lancashire, Lincolnshire, Northumberland, Southampton i.e. Hants. In Nottinghamshire seven Places.

408 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

Gaoler a Bailiff: no Salary. He pays Rent £4: Fees 6s. 8d. no Table.

1776, Jan. 27, Debtor 1,

1776, Sep. 20, - 1.

RICHMOND GAOL,

For the very extensive Liberty of Richmond and Richmondshire, is the Property of Lord Holderness. It is also the Bridewell, and the Borough-Gaol. For Debtors a kitchen and bed-room, close glazed. For Men-criminals two dungeons down five steps: for Women, a room above. No straw. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors hung up. A Court-yard, and a Well. — Gaoler no Salary for the Liberty: for the Bridewell £13: 10: 0: for the Borough £4: Fees, Debtors 6s. 8d. at Entrance, and 6s. 8d. at Discharge: Criminals 16s. 4d. Allowance to the latter four pence a day.

In the Table of Fees dated 1671 and signed W Lylde and Ty Lyttleton, the 12th article is, "Every Person or Persons that shall be committed upon any Warrant — upon his or their Commitment to Gaol shall pay to the rest of the Prisoners 2s. 4d. for their GARNISH.”

1776, Oct. 26, Debtors 6.

RIPPON LIBERTY-GAOL,

Is the Property of the Archbishop, by a Charter from King Edward IV. His Court adjoining, is called the Court Military. The Liberty includes twenty-four Parishes. For Debtors four or five

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 409

good rooms in the Keeper's house: but no free ward. For Felons one strong room quite dark; another with a little window. Keeper no Salary; he pays Rent; he is a Bailiff. Fees, Debtors 15s. 4d. no Table: Licence for Beer.

17763 Oct. 26, Debtors 2.

RIPPON GAOL,

For the Canon-Fee Court, belongs to the Dean and Chapter of Rippon. It is not only a Gaol for that Court, but a House of Correction for the Liberty. Good rooms for Debtors, but no free ward. The Bridewell part, two dark rooms, about eight feet square. No Salary as Gaoler; as Keeper of Bridewell £10: 10: 0. Fees, Debtors 13s. 4d. no Table: Licence for Beer. Keeper a Bailiff.

1776, Oct. 26, No Prisoners.

KNARESBOROUGH PRISON,

For debtors, in the Honour or Forest of Knaresborough, the Liberty including nineteen Townships &c. is the Property of the Duke of Devonshire, Lessee to his majesty. It is almost the only Remains of a ruinous Castle granted by King Edward III. to John of Gaunt Duke of Lancaster. One room about twelve feet square, another within it about eight: in the latter no window. — No sewer: no fire-place: no water. Keeper lately dead; was a Bailiff; lived distant.

1776, Oct. 26,.No Prisoners.

410 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

KNARESBOROUGH PRISON,

For town debtors, is under the Hall. Of difficult access; the door about four feet from the ground. Only one room, about fourteen feet by twelve. Earth floor: no fire-place: very offensive; a common sewer from the town running through it uncovered. I was informed that an Officer, confined here some years since, for only a few days, took in with him a dog to defend him from vermin; but the dog was soon destroyed, and the Prisoner's face much disfigured by them.

1776, Oct. 26, No Prisoners.

KNARESBOROUGH TOWN GAOL

Is under the landing-place between two flights of stone steps, that lead on the right and left hand up to the Hall. Only one room about eight feet by five: two windows eighteen inches by six. — I mention this small Prison, because in it are sometimes confined for one night or two at Quarter Sessions six or seven Prisoners, men and women.

1776, Oct. 26, No Prisoners.

DONCASTER TOWN GAOL.

Four good rooms. No yard: no water: no sewer. Keeper lives distant.

1775, Jan. 5, Prisoners 2.

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 411

LEEDS TOWN GAOL.

Four good rooms, and a small one. No court-yard: no water: no sewer. Keeper lives distant.

1774, Nov. 4, } No Prisoners.

1776, Jan. 12, }

KINGSTON upon HULL TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

The Debtors free ward is a large room. Over it one as large, and over that another smaller, both for Criminals. The ground-room is a damp dungeon: but the Gaoler, who has a character for humanity, assured me that no one had been confined in it for many years. In his house adjoining is a room or two with beds, for those who pay. Leads for Debtors to walk on: no court-yard: no water accessible to Prisoners: no sewer; and the Felons rooms are offensive. Gaoler no Salary: Fees 8s. no Table. Allowance to Felons three pence a day. Gaol-Delivery once in three years*.

Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Nov. 1, - 5 - 0,

1776, Jan. 29, - 6 - 3,

1776, Sep. 21, - 4 - 5.

KINGSTON upon HULL BRIDEWELL.

Two rooms below, and two up stairs, about twelve feet square: very offensive: no fire-place. Court-yard only twenty-two feet by

* See page 31.

412 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

ten; not secure, and Prisoners not permitted to go to the pump: no sewer: no allowance: no straw. Not white-washed since it was built about nine years ago. Debtors from the Court of Conscience sent hither.

The Prisoners pound tile-sherds to mix in mortar &c. Keeper's Salary £5; a chaldron of coals; and four thousand turfs: Fees 2s. 6d. no Table.

1774, Nov. 1, Prisoners 2, }

1776, Jan. 29, - 5, } every time a poor raving Lunatic.

1776, Sep. 21, - 0, }

SHEFFIELD GAOL,

For the Liberty of Hallamshire, is the Property of the Duke of Norfolk. The two lower rooms are free wards: there are two rooms over them. The court-yard is only about ten feet square. Both this and the Prison might be enlarged on ground adjacent that belongs to his Grace. Keeper no Salary: he rents of the Duke a public-house joining to the Prison.

1776, Jan. 10, Prisoners 6,

1776, Oct. 28, - 4.

SHEFFIELD TOWN GAOL.

The Lobbys are two small rooms, the largest only about eight feet square, and six high. When Quarter Sessions for the West-Riding are held at this Town, Offenders are locked up in this Prison.

1776, Oct. 28, Deserter 1.

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 413

ROTHWELL PRISON

For the Manor of Wakefield in the Liberty of the Honour of Pontefract in the Dutchy Court of Lancaster, is out of repair. A new Prison is lately built at

BATLEY. Behind a House for the Keeper is the Prison, Plan rectangular: the Front is the wall and gate. On three sides are Lodging-rooms for Debtors; five or six about ten feet square; four much larger for two beds in each. Two Day-rooms; two work-rooms; and a dark room for the unruly. There are in a separate Court two rooms for Women-debtors: a provision very kind and prudent, and, I believe, peculiar to this Prison. — All the Prison rooms are on the ground floor.

In the old Prison at Rothwell, I saw both times I was there, one William Carr a weaver: he had given a bad name to a woman who was said not to deserve a very good one: she cited him to the Ecclesiastical Court; and he was imprisoned 4th of May 1774. He had a wife and three children. — I will transcribe a line or two of the Warrant. — "For as much as the Royal Power ought not to be wanting to the Holy Church in its Complaints — attach the said W. C. — until he shall have made satisfaction to the Holy Church as well for the Contempt as for the Injury by him done unto it.” He was discharged 26th July last by the Insolvent Act.

The Keeper has no Salary. Fees see Table.

1774, Nov. 4, - Prisoners 25 } Rothwell

1776, Jan. 25, - 22 } Rothwell

1776, Oct. 27, - 4 } Batley.

314 YORKSHIRE. Northern Circuit.

I wish my Reader be not tired with so many Tables of Fees, even for the Counties. Yet I think I must not omit the Fees which I saw in this private Prison at Rothwell: because some of them are high; and at Halifax they are the same. The Table is regularly signed, 11th Janry 1732: but I entirely omit the Forms.

£. S. D.

Every Gentleman shall pay for his first week's Commons at Table and for his Commitment Fee - 0 : 16 : 0

And for every week following - 0 : 5 : 0

Every Yeoman Tradesman or Artificer for the first week's Commons at table and Commitment Fees - 0 : 13 : 0

And for every following week - 0 : 4 : 0

And be it further ordered that every Gentleman shall pay nightly for his bed - 0 : 0 : 4

And every Yeoman Tradesman or Artificer lodging in good rooms and on feather beds - 0 : 0 : 2

And it is also ordered that when the Gaoler lodges two or more Prisoners in one bed they shall pay amongst them per night according to their proportions - 0 : 0 : 3

And that but One Fee shall be taken by the Gaoler for any Prisoner's discharge although there has been more than one Action against him or her which Fee shall be - 0 : 17 : 4 

And to the Turnkey - 0 : 1 : 0

For allowing every Supersedeas in every Action - 0 : 6 : 8

For allowing every Writ of Habeas Corpus besides Conduct money to be paid and allowed according to the distance from the said Gaol to the place where the body is to be removed - 0 : 6 : 8

Northern Circuit. YORKSHIRE. 415

HALIFAX PRISON for debtors.

For the Manor of Wakefield, dated 1662, is the Property of the Duke of Leeds. For Master's-side Debtors, rooms in the Keeper's public-house. Through this you pass to a court-yard about fourteen yards by seven: at the further end of which is a sizeable room on the ground floor for Common-side Debtors, it is called the Low Gaol: over it a chamber (the Low Gaol Chamber) where Prisoners pay one shilling a week. — The whole Prison is greatly out of repair: it rained in upon the beds: the rooms at my last visit were clean.

Keeper no Salary: he pays the Duke £24 a year: Fees see Rothwell, preceding page.

In this Town formerly the Barons (as in many other places) and after them, various Proprietors had power of life and death. The method of execution was decollation by an axe in an engine. The axe is preferred in the Gaol to this day. Two men in 1650 were the last who suffered by it.

1776, Jan. 24, - Prisoners 5,

1776, Sep. 16, - 7

416 DURHAM. Northern Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at DURHAM.

GAOLER, Bainbridge Watson, by Patent from the Bishop durante Beneplacito.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, - £0: 10: 0,

Felons at Assize, - 0: 16: 8,

at Quarter Sessions, 0: 13: 4.

Transports, about £10: 10: 0 each.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none. (See Remarks.)

Felons, two pence a day.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 4: 6.

Felons, 0: 1: o.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774. March 20, - 37 - 21,

1775, Jan. 6, - 9 - 20,

1776, Jan. 14, - 21 - 12,

1776, Oct. 25, - 18 - 6.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Decent.

Duty — Sunday and Thursday.

Salary, £40.

SURGEON, Mr. Bainbridge.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

Northern Circuit. DURHAM. 417

DURHAM.

[Remarks.]

THE HIGH GAOL is the Property of the Bishop. By Patent from his Lordship, Sir Hedworth Williamson Bart, is perpetual Sheriff. — The Court-yard for Master's-side Debtors is only twenty-four feet by ten. Common-side Debtors have none at all: their free wards, the Low Gaol, are two damp unhealthy rooms by the Gateway: they are never suffered to go out of these, unless to Chapel, which is the Master-side Debtors Hall; and not always to that: for on a Sunday when I was there and missed them at Chapel, they told me they were not permitted to go thither. No sewers: at more than one of my visits, I learned that the dirt, ashes &c. had lain there many months. There is an excellent double-barreled Pump, which raises water about seventy feet.

Felons have no Court-yard: but they have a Day-room and two small rooms for an Infirmary. The Men are put at night into Dungeons: one seven feet square for three Prisoners: another, the Great Hole, has only a little window. In this I saw six Prisoners, most of them Transports, chained to the floor. In that situation they had been many weeks; and were very sickly. Their straw on the stone-floor almost worn to dust. Long confinement, and not having the King's allowance of 2s. 6d. a week, had urged them to attempt an Escape: after which the Gaoler chained them as above. — There is another dungeon middle-sized; and for Women-felons a separate room or two.

The Common-side Debtors, whom I saw eating boiled bread and water, told me, that this was the only nourishment some had lived upon for near a twelvemonth. They have from a Legacy two shillings a week in winter, and one shilling and six pence a week in summer

418 DURHAM. Northern Circuit.

[Durham.]

for coals. No memorandum of it in the Gaol: perhaps this may in time be lost; as the Gaoler said two others were, viz. one of Bishop Crewe, and another of Bishop Wood; from which Prisoners had received no benefit for some years past. The clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors are hung up. Gaol-Delivery once a year.

There was a vacant piece of ground adjacent, of little use but for the Gaoler's occasional lumber. It extends to the river, and measures about twenty two yards by sixteen. I once and again advised the inclosing this for a Court-yard: but when I was there in January 1776 I had the mortification to hear that the Surgeon, who is Uncle to the Gaoler, had obtained from the Bishop in October preceding a Lease of it for twenty one years at the rent of one shilling per annum. He had built a little stable on it.

TABLE of FEES &c.

Rules and Orders established by the — Justices for the County Palatinate of Durham and Sadberge at their General Quarter Sessions — 16th July 1729 — and Fees allowed to be taken by the Keeper of the said Gaol and his Officers as follows.

£. S. D.

Imprimis, For every Prisoner Lodging in either of the Common-sides commonly called the Low Gaol, no Chamber rent — 0: 0: 0

Item for an entire Chamber without a bed-fellow in the High Gaol — 0: 3: 6

For lodging with a bedfellow in any other chamber except the Common Chamber, for each Prisoner every week — 0: 2: 0

For lodging with a bedfellow in the Common Chamber, of each Prisoner every week — 0: 1: 3

For lodging in a single bed in that Common Chamber without admitting of a bedfellow in every week — 0: 2: 6

Out of which Abatement shall be made.

Northern Circuit. DURHAM. 419

[Durham.]

£. S. D.

For every Prisoner that findeth his own bedding bedcloaths and sheets and admitting a bedfellow with him every week — 0: 0: 4

For diet of Prisoners.

Item For every Knight for every week — 0: 10: 0

Of every Esquire or Gentleman not exceeding for every week — 0: 7: 6

Item Of every Yeoman Artificer or Labourer not exceeding weekly — 0: 6: 0

For Wine Ale and Brandy at the common rates used in the Town.

For liberates or Final Discharges of Prisoners.

Item For the Discharge of every Prisoner upon process or order from the Court of Chancery — 0: 10: 0

For the first Liberate — 0: 1: 0

Item For every Knight Esquire or Gentleman for the second Ditto — 0: 3: 9

For every one more — 0: 1: 6

Item For every Yeoman Artificer or Labourer for the first — 0: 8: 8

For the second — 0: 3: 9

For every one more — 0: 1: 6

Fees to the Under Keeper and Door Keeper

Item For attendance of every Prisoner that goeth abroad into the Town every time — 0: 0: 4

For every Knight Esquire or Gentleman for his final Discharge and Enlargement only — 0: 0: 6

For every Yeoman Artificer or Labourer for such Discharge only — 0: 0: 0

Tho Burdus

Jos Morland

Mic Brabin

Heny Foster Mayor

Giles Rayne:

420 DURHAM. Northern Circuit.

[Durham.]

We Sir Francis Page Knight one of the Justices of his Majesty's Court of King's Bench and Sir Barn. Hale Knight one of the Barons of his Majesty's Court of Exchequer at Westminster now Justices of Assize for the Northern Circuit have reviewed the above Table of Fees and have thought fit to moderate the Item or Article of two shillings a week for Lodging with a Bedfellow in any other Chamber except the Common Chamber to be paid by each Prisoner, and instead thereof do appoint one shilling and six pence per week to be paid by each Prisoner so lodging with a Bedfellow which laid Table with such alteration is hereby Confirmed by us

Dated the 2d day of August 1729

F PAGE

B HALE

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at DURHAM.

Several sizeable airy rooms. Men and women separate. No employment: no water: no sewer: no court-yard; but the Keeper Mr. Watson has a Garden which he lets for a guinea a year. His Salary £30. He lives at the High Gaol; and puts in a Woman to take care of this Prison.

1775, Jan. 6, Prisoners 5,

1776, Jan. 14, - 7,

1776, Oct. 25, - 6.

Northern Circuit. NEWCASTLE upon TYNE. 421

NEWCASTLE TOWN and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, John Crafter; now Thomas Harle.

Salary, £50, and £2 Gown-money.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 10: 8,

Felons, 0: 14: 4.

Transports, only Expense.

Licence, none at my last visit.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, two pence a day, on petition.

Felons, two pence a day.

Garnish, lately cancelled.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, March 21, - 6 - 2,

1775, Jan. 8, - 12 - 4,

1776, Jan. 15, - 14 - 3

CHAPLAINS, Rev. Mr. Brunton, and Rev. Mr. Brand.

Duty — On Sunday none; but on two other days Prayers: and once a month Sermon. None of the days fixed. The Chaplains officiate alternately a month each.

Salary, £10 the Corporation, and £10 Sir Walter Blacket.

SURGEON, Mr. Bacon.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

[Remarks.]

IN THIS NEWGATE, which is the Gate at the upper end of the Town, all the rooms except the condemned room are up stairs,

422 NEWCASTLE. Northern Circuit.

[Newcastle.]

and airy: I always found them remarkably clean, strewed with sand &c. The Corporation allow both Debtors and Felons firing and candles in plenty: and every Prisoner hath a chaff-bed, two blankets, and a coverlid: Debtors are not thus accommodated in any other Prison in England. They also allow brooms, mops, and all such necessaries. I copied the sums generously allowed for those articles; the whole amount is £45: 1: 4 per annum. This is one of the very few Gaols that have what is called in London the rules. Part of two Streets near the Gaol is in the Prison-Liberty.

There is no yard: but one might be made of the vacant ground that lies West of the Gaol. A Door should be cut in the wall between the Felons Ward and the room used for a Chapel. It would not then be necessary for them to come out and cross the street, as they do now.

The Debtors Beds are in Closets, which should be taken down. Instead of them Iron Bedsteads should be placed in the Wards, as in some Hospitals.

No Prisoners here have Fetters, unless they be riotous. For some years past, Prisoners acquitted have been discharged in Court. The Corporation paid hre Gaoler's Fees if the Prisoners were poor. — Gaol-Delivery once a year. — Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

I was concerned when I heard at my last visit that the humane Gaoler Mr. Crafter was dead. But his Successor Mr. Harle is equally worthy of the Trust.

Dr. Rotheram, a Physician in this Town, visits the Prisoners very assiduously without Fee or Reward. This is the only instance of the kind I have met with.

Northern Circuit. NEWCASTLE. 423

[Newcastle.]

An exact Copy of the RATES and FEES to be from henceforth Received by — the Gaoler or Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol-called Newgate within this Town of Newcastle upon Tyne — settled — at the General Quarter Sessions held at Guild-hall in Newcastle aforesaid, on the 15 of July Anno Domni 1730. And approved of at the Assize following by Francis Page and John Fortescue A two of his said Majesty's Judges of Assize According to an Act of Parliament lately made

(viz)

£. S. D.

Every Prisoner upon any Civil Action shall pay to the Keeper at his first coming in — 0: 3: 0

Every Prisoner charged by Process or Processes out of the Court of Record held before the Mayor and Sheriff of the said Town of Newcastle upon Tyne respectively shall pay to the said Keeper upon his Discharge from the said Process or Processes only — 0: 6: 8

Every Prisoner charged upon any Execution or Executions out of the Court of Conscience held within the said Town shall pay to the said Keeper upon his Discharge from the said Execution or Executions — 0: 2: 0

Every Prisoner on any Criminal Account or Accounts whatsoever shall pay unto the said Keeper upon his Discharge only — 0: 13: 4

Every Person appearing upon a Recognizance at the Assizes and afterwards tried upon any Indictment or Indictments whatsoever and shall be committed thereon shall pay to the said Keeper upon his Discharge — 0: 6: 8

424 NEWCASTLE. Northern Circuit.

[Newcastle.]

Every Prisoner shall pay to the Turnkey of the said Gaol or Prison upon his Discharge — 0: 1: 0

Confirmed by us

Henry Reay Mayor

John Isaacson Recorder

Richard Ridley } Aldermen

WM Ellison }

Francis Rudston }

Nathanael Clayton }

Stephen Coulson }

We do approve of this Table of Fees July 27. 1730

FRANCIS PAGE } Judges

JOHN FORTESCUE A }

THERE ARE also AT NEWCASTLE

A BRIDEWELL. A room for men; another for women. No yard: no water. Prisoners at work.

1775, Jan. 8, Prisoners 1,

1776, Jan. 15, - 5.

A SMALL GAOL, consisting of three close dirty rooms. No court-yard: no water.

1775, Jan. 8, Prisoners 2,

1776, Jan. 15, - 1.

Northern Circuit. NORTHUMBERLAND. 425

COUNTY GAOL at MORPETH.

GAOLER, John Kent.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 12: 6,

Felons, 1: 3: 0.

Transports, only Expenses.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on applying to Justices.

Felons, two pence a day each, paid once a month.

Garnish, £0: 1: 4.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, March 22, - 8 - 8,

1775, Jan. 9, - 6 - 7,

1776, Jan. 16, - 9 - 11.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Nicholson.

Duty — Sunday, Tuesday, Friday.

Salary, £10, and £5 for condemned Felons; lately raised to £30.

SURGEON, Mr. Leidman.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill,

426 NORTHUMBERLAND. Northern Circuit.

MORPETH.

[Remarks.]

ONLY one Court-yard, which is for Debtors. Some commodious rooms have been lately built for them; the old ones being out of repair. — Felons are always locked within doors. In the Women's room I saw (Jan. 1776) two; who, the Gaoler said, were call for Transportation; one in Sep. 1773, the other in Nov. 1774. The term of their punishment was lengthened by all this Time.

Of the other two rooms, generally appropriated to Men-felons, one is a Day-room, the other an offensive Dungeon. In the latter were three Transports, who upon suspicion of intending an Escape were chained to the floor. — They have not the King's allowance of 2s. 6d. a week.

Gaol-delivery once a year. Assize held at Newcastle, whither Prisoners are conveyed; and men and women confined together, commonly a whole week, in a dirty damp Dungeon down six steps in the Old Castle.

The County has for some years paid the Gaoler's Fees for acquitted Prisoners, if poor: and cloathed such Transports as were quite indigent.

The Debtors Court-yard should be allotted to Felons: and one for Debtors might be taken from the Gaoler's spacious Garden.

Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. The following Table of Fees is hung up in a frame and glazed.

Northern Circuit. NORTHUMBERLAND. 427

TABLE of FEES &c. Settled and Allowed to be due to the Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol at Morpeth — by the Justices — at the Quarter Sessions — held — at Hexham 1759.

Commitment Fees.

Every Debtor £0: 1: 4 Every Felon £0: 2: 8

Chamber-Rents.

£. S. D.

To the room called the Green Room with one bed in it and if only one person will have it to himself, to pay weekly — 0: 2: 6

If two Persons therein to pay each — 0: 1: 6

To the room called Burton's Room having two beds, and the Gaoler finding bedding and linnen, each person to pay weekly — 0: 1: 0

But if one will have a bed is to pay — 0: 2: 0

To the little Green Room having one bed and if one person will have it to himself he is to pay weekly — 0: 2: 6

If two therein only to pay each — 0: 1: 6

The Gaoler finding good and wholesome bedding

To the room called the Fencing Room with three beds and the Gaoler finding wholesome linen each person to pay weekly — 0: 1: 0

To the little room called Mrs. Carr's Room the Gaoler finding beds and linen each person is to pay weekly — 0: 1: 0

If the Prisoner finds the bedding — 0: 0: 6

To a room called Mr. Johnson's Room; being on the same floor, the Gaoler finding bed and linen each person to pay — 0: 1: 0

If they find their own bedding, only — 0: 0: 6

428 NORTHUMBERLAND. Northern Circuit.

[Morpeth.]

£. S. D.

There is a large room that Prisoners pay nothing for, which holds a great many beds, called the Middle Tower — 0: 0: 0

Every Debtor upon his Discharge to pay to the Gaoler — 0: 10: 2

To the Turnkey — 0: 1: 0

Every Felon on his Discharge — 0: 18: 4

To the Turnkey — 0: 2: 0

Jno. Orde

Step. Watson

Wm. Ward.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MORPETH.

The three Rooms are close and dirty. Over the way is a large room which is a warehouse and workshop: and above it another workshop. The Keeper, a Clothier, employs his Prisoners; the Men and Boys from eight o'Clock to four at two shillings a week: Women from eight to five at one shilling and six pence a week. He gives them also firing. No County Allowance. — His Salary £30: no Fees.

1775, Jan. 9, Prisoners 2,

1776, Jan. 16, - 8.

Northern Circuit. BERWICK upon TWEED. 429

BERWICK*.

GAOLER, John Richardson.

Salary, £16.

Fees, Debtors, Freemen, } none.

Felons, }

Debtors, not free, £0: 2: 6.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, Freemen, four pence a day.

Ditto, not free, } two pence halfpenny a day.

Felons, }

Garnish, £0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1776, Jan. 17, 5 - 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None; but on application to the Magistrates.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is part of the grand Town-Hall, which was built in 1754, and has a fine Steeple: the only one in the Town. The rooms on the ground floor are damp and Prisoners are not put into them, but over the Hall, where is a long room, or gallery, and seven other rooms, sizeable, but dirty. No court-yard: no water. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. The Gaoler keeps a Public-house, distant. He told me he went to the Gaol thrice a day; at nine, one, and eight.

* This place, though a distinct jurisdiction, in none of the Circuits, is inserted here, rather than at the end of the English and Welch Counties, because its situation gives it a natural connection with the last-mentioned County, and it falls in here in the order of my journey through the northern part of the kingdom.

430 CUMBERLAND. Northern Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at CARLISLE.

GAOLER, Brathwaite Atkinson.

Salary, £21.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 11: 0.

Felons, }

Transports, £ 1 each to Whitehaven.

Licence for Beer. The Tap let.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, on applying to the Justices some obtain a shilling a week, some nine pence.

Felons, nine pence a week before conviction; a shilling after.

Garnish, £0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, March 23, - 49 - 4,

1776, Jan. 20, - 29 - 7,

1776, Sep. 19, - 15 - 2.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Farish.

Duty — Sunday, Wednesday, Friday; first: Sunday in the Month, Sermon.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Lash.

Salary, £2: 2: 0 for Attendance. Medicines paid for by Bill.

Northern Circuit. CUMBERLAND. 431

CARLISLE.

[Remarks.]

THE COURT spacious, eighty-five yards by thirty-six; but common to all Prisoners. In it a Chapel, built, by the date upon it, 1734. Five rooms for Master's-side Debtors; and as many on the Common-side. Most of the latter are large, but have windows to the street. As there are so many rooms, the not separating men and women is inexcusable.

The Wards for Felons are two rooms down a step or two: dark and dirty. One of them, the Day-room, has a window to the street; through which Spirituous Liquors and Tools for Mischief may be easily conveyed: but the last time I saw it, there was a shutter and padlock to it. The Night-room is only eleven feet by nine. No Infirmary. Transports have not the King's allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. Gaol-Delivery once a year.

The Gaol-Fever, which some years ago carried off many of the Prisoners, did not deter Mr. Farish from visiting the sick every day.

Few Gaols have so many convenient rooms for Common-side Debtors. It is the more remarkable here, because there is no Table signed by the Magistrates to particularize the Free Wards. Some Gaolers avail themselves of such a Circumstance, and demand rent for rooms which were undoubtedly designed for Common-side Prisoners.

432 CUMBERLAND. Northern Circuit.

CARLISLE CITY GAOL,

Over the Scotch-Gate. Only one ruinous room about twenty feet square; with a window four feet by one and a half. No allowance but a very small quantity of peat taken as a toll upon that commodity, and water brought twice a day.

I was told that many a poor Traveller from the North who by some Calamity had contracted an unavoidable debt of forty shillings, has been confined at a distance from his Friends in this Prison where there is no Provision, nor any means of procuring it.

1776, Jan. 20, Debtors 3,

1776, Sep. 19, - 1.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COCKERMOUTH

Is behind the Keeper's House, and part of it his Freehold. A room on the ground-floor, the Strong Room. Up stairs another room; and a closet called the Lunatic Room. All out of repair, and insecure: and so is the Court-yard. No allowance: no straw; no water. Keeper's Salary or Rent £20: no Fees.

1776, Sep. 18, Prisoners none.

WHITEHAVEN TOWN GAOL

Is part of the Work-house. Two Rooms up stairs; and a Dungeon in which they used to confine Transports brought hither to be shipped. All dirty and offensive.

1776, Sep. 18, Prisoners none.

Northern Circuit. WESTMORLAND. 433

COUNTY GAOL at APPLEBY.

GAOLER, Benjamin Ainsley.

Salary, £10. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 6: 8

Felons, }

Transports, a shilling a mile each to Whitehaven,

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, four pence a day each.

Garnish, £0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, March 24, - 7 - 4,

1776, Jan. 22, - 3 - 0,

1776, Sep. 19, - 3 - 3.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL was built by the County. The Earl of Thanet is Hereditary Sheriff, and pays the Gaoler his Salary. Happily for the Prisoners in a Gaol so circumstanced, the present Gaoler is a man of temper and humanity.

At page 41 I complained of this Prison being within reach of Floods: but in Jan. 1776 there was a new Building on the highest part of the Yard. It consists of four vaulted Wards for Felons, fifteen feet by thirteen; a window in each, but no chimney: and over them three good rooms with chimneys, for Debtors.

Gaol-delivery once a year. — No Table of Fees.

434 WESTMORLAND. Northern Circuit.

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

APPLEBY. Two rooms: each has a small window into a stable: subject to floods. — No allowance but straw. Keeper's Salary £8: no Fees.

1776, Jan. 22, No Prisoners.

1776, Sep. 19, No Prisoners.

KENDAL. Only one room for Men and Women eighteen feet by twelve and a half, with one window about two feet square: no chimney: no yard: no water: no sewer. The Keeper has a garden: Salary £6: 10: no Fees. — The Town sometimes commits Prisoners hither and allows them six pence a day; the County, four pence.

1776, Jan. 23, Prisoners 3, two Men, one Woman.

1776, Sept. 18, - 1 Deserter.

KENDAL TOWN GAOL.

Only two Dungeons, called Black Holes: fourteen steps under ground. No yard: no water: no straw. Allowance six pence a day. The two Town Sergeants keep the Prison by turns; a week each.

I have not censured the management of any Work-houses (though highly deserving it) because foreign to my subject. But I will take the liberty to extol the oeconomy, industry and cleanliness of the Kendal Work-house. It makes some amends for the inconvenience of the Town Gaol, which occasions the sending Town-Prisoners to the County Bridewell as above.

1776, Jan. 23, No Prisoners.

Northern Circuit. LANCASHIRE. 435

COUNTY GAOL, LANCASTER CASTLE.

GAOLER, John Dane.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 8: 0.

Felons, 0: 13: 4.

Transports, £5 each. (See Remarks.)

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } one shilling each on Saturday morning.

Felons, }

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 7: 2,

Felons, 0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, March 25, - 74 - 13,

1775, Nov. 20, - 48 - 17,

1776, Sep. 17, - 32 - 19.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Spicer; now Rev. Mr. Watson.

Duty — Sunday twice; Wednesday and Friday once.

Salary, £50. (See Remarks.)

SURGEON, Mr. Dixon.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

[Remarks.]

THE CASTLE-YARD is spacious. Master's-side Debtors have many apartments. One of them which they call the Oven, is said to have been used as such in the time of John of Gaunt Duke of Lancaster: the diameter twenty-four feet, the height, now, that of an ordinary

436 LANCASHIRE. Northern Circuit.

[Lancaster.]

room. The Free Ward for Debtors is large but dark. These, as well as those of the Master's-side, are allowed to walk and work (spin, knit &c.) in the Crown and Shire Halls. Over the Judge's Bench in the latter is written this text; ”Let Judgment run down as waters, and Righteousness as a nighty stream.”

Petty offenders are sometimes sent hither, because the Bridewells are distant. There is a large Room for them near the Gate; and they are, as they should be, kept separate from Felons.

Men and Women-felons have their Day-rooms apart, at the upper end of the Yard. Women sleep in their Day-room. — Men have for their Night-rooms two vaulted Cells. One of them, the Low Dungeon, is ten steps under ground, twenty-one feet by nine, extremely close, dark, and unwholesome; so very hot even in Winter, that coming from it in the morning into the cold air must be pernicious. Their other Cell, the High Dungeon, is larger but close and offensive, though not under ground.

I once saw three Felons sick: but the Recorder, Mr. Fenton, gave immediate orders for their relief by better nourishment &c. and they soon recovered. No Infirmary. Transports have not the King's allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. When Prisoners are convicted at Preston or Manchester, and from thence brought hither, Mr. Dane has a shilling a mile Conduct-Money for each.

Part of the Castle-yard is an inclosed Bowling-Green.

One of the rooms for Debtors is called the Quakers Room; because, it is said, when those people were so cruelly persecuted in the last Century, vast numbers of them were confined in it.

If the large Stable which is not much used, and the great Room under the Shire-Hall (in which I saw only one poor Lunatic; who

Northern Circuit. LANCASHIRE. 437

[Lancaster.]

had been there many years, and is since dead) were converted into Night-rooms for Felons, one small room for each; and an Infirmary was built, this would be a good Gaol. From Mr. Fenton's humanity, and the regard that is justly paid him, I cannot but hope for some of these Improvements.

The Chaplain's Salary £50 is — from the County £36 — from the Dutchy £4 — from a Charity £10.

I will give a Copy of the Table of Fees, though it is not authentic: and of a Paper in the Shire-Hall containing a List of Donations; though imperfect, and not vouched by any Authority.

Fees taken by the Gaoler of Lancaster Castle. (viz)

£. S. D.

For every Debtor's Discharge when by a Supersedeas — 0: 8: 0

On a Common Discharge 8s. and 2s. & 6d. for the Sheriff's Certificate — 0: 10: 6

When a Debtor is surrendered in Discharge of his Bail — 0: 2: 4

When a Debtor is charged with a Declaration 2s. & 4d. with the Rule to take the Prisoner to the Bar and 2s. & 4d. with the Remandato — 0: 4: 8

When a Debtor takes the Benefit of the Insolvent Act 1s. and 2s. & 4d. to bring the Prisoner to the Bar by rule and 2s. & 4d. for the Sheriff's Certificate — 0: 5: 8

Fees for all Crown Prisoners — 0: 18: 0

Lately altered to — 0: 13: 4

John Dane Gaoler.

438 LANCASHIRE. Northern Circuit.

CHARITY LEGACIES to the debtor prisoners in Lancaster Castle 1770

[Lancaster.]

From Mrs. Henrietta Rigby's Executors to twelve of the most necessitous and well behaved Prisoners five shillings each paid by Doctor Fenton and the Mayor of Lancaster about the first day of March every year — 3: 0: 0

From Mrs. Langton paid by Lawrence Rawsthorn Esq. each Assize — 2: 0: 0

From Sir Thomas Gerrard of Gartswood paid by Mr. Starkie due about the first of August — 8: 0: 0

Paid under a Decree of the Court of Chancery of this County out of an Estate in Skermisdale called Sand late belonging to Peter Latham deceased distributed at every August Assize, by the Trustees of the said Peter Latham or their order paid by Mr. Ratcliffe of Ormskirk Attorney at Law — 6: 0: 0

By the Will of William Edmunston of Outhwaite one pound fifteen shillings yearly or half the Rent of Land in Scotsorth purchased by the money left for such purpose by the said Will, paid by the Treasurer of the County in bread — 1: 15: 0

From Mrs. Abigail Rigby's Executors paid by Doctor Fenton and the Mayor of Lancaster every St. Thomas's Day — 2: 0: 0

[Qry. Jebson's Legacy.] (So the Paper.)

Northern Circuit. LANCASHIRE. 439

COUNTY BRIDEWELLS.

PRESTON. This Prison a little distant from the Town was a Friary. On the ground-floor is a large Room, in which are eleven Closets, called Boxes, to sleep in, and another Room, the Dungeon. Over these are a large Working-room for Men, and a less for Women. All the rooms are dirty, and the Prison out of repair. — A Court-yard in front (the Prisoners have no use of it) and a spacious Garden backwards for the Keeper.

These Prisoners have the other Moiety of William Edmunston's Legacy mentioned in the List at Lancaster Castle. The Keeper receives it for them. No water accessible to Prisoners: no allowance. Keeper's Salary £60: Fees, from those tried at Sessions 10s. 6d. from others 7s. no Table.

1774, March 16, Prisoners 8,

1775, Nov. 18, - 19,

1776, Sep. 16, - 11.

MANCHESTER. Rebuilt as per date, in the year 1774. Separate Court-yards and Apartments for Men and Women. The former have Work-rooms, over which are Chambers. Their Night-rooms or Dungeons, in a passage or long room

440 LANCASHIRE. Northern Circuit.

[Bridewells &c.]

forty-five feet by six are close; eleven feet by eight; eleven steps below the yard; but not properly under ground, being on the declivity of a hill. — Women have three rooms on the ground-floor, and three chambers: here is also a dungeon, down nine steps, fourteen feet by thirteen; but women are not put there. The iron grated Door into each Court has fastenings of a contrivance singularly curious. No allowance. Keeper's Salary lately raised from £25 to £60 in lieu of Fees.

1774, Nov. 5, Prisoners 21,

1775, Nov. 16, - 6,

1776, Sep. 15, - 12.

LIVERPOOL BOROUGH-GAOL.

Out of repair. Apartments close and dirty. Seven close Dungeons ten steps under ground; each six feet and a half by five feet nine inches, and six feet high. Three Prisoners are locked up in each of them at night. There is another Dungeon, larger, but not secure. No Infirmary. The Keeper told me in Nov. 1775, that after I was there last year and said his Prisoners were in danger of the Gaol-Fever, twenty-eight of them had been ill of it at one time. What led me to think so was, the offensiveness of the Dungeons, and the number of Prisoners. The Prison is surrounded with other buildings, and cannot be made healthy and convenient. — Allowance in common on Sunday, bread 4s. beef and broth about 6s. Firing from October to May. Gaoler, Rosendale Alien, Sergeant at Mace, pays the Widow of the late Gaoler £20 a year;

Northern Circuit. LANCASHIRE. 441

and puts in a Deputy who pays him £65 a year. Fees, Debtors 2s. Felons &c. 4s. no Table. Chaplain, Duty — Tuesday and Friday: Salary £10. — Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

Felons are generally sent to Lancaster Castle: the Prisoners kept here are for the most part Debtors.

I hear, the Corporation intend to build a new Gaol.

1774, Nov. 7, Prisoners 58,

1775, Nov. 23, - 60.

WARRINGTON TOWN BRIDEWELL.

Two rooms in the Work-house Yard; one about nine feet square, with bedstead and straw; no window: the other about nine feet by five, with an aperture for air eighteen inches by four. No employment. Allowance for diet, the same as the Poor, who, by their appearance, seem to have a humane attention paid to them. Keeper, no Salary for the Bridewell: no Fees: is Master of the Work-house.

1777, March 20,- No Prisoners.

442 CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL, CHESTER CASTLE.

GAOLER, Faithful Thomas; he holds it of the Constable George Nossiter the King's Patentee, to whom, he pays Rent £40 a year.

Salary, £18: 5: 0 from the Exchequer.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 9: 8

Felons, }

Transports, £5 each, and £1 for Expenses.

Licence, for Beer and Wine.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } a twelve-pennyloaf each on Friday morning (weight in Feb. 1775, 6½lb.).

Felons, }

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 3: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, March 29, - 22 - 24,

1774, June 24, - 23 - 12,

1775, Feb. 1, - 9 - 15,

1775, Nov. 25, - 11 - 6,

1776, Sep. 14, - 7 - 12.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Boswel.

Duty — Only to condemned Felons.

Salary, £10.

On Sunday a Debtor reads Prayers, and, commonly, a Sermon, for which the County allows £2. a year.

SURGEON, None; but on applying to a Justice.

Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE. 443

CHESTER CASTLE

[Remarks.]

IS the Property of the king. The first room is a Hall or Chapel: there are two staircases leading up from it to four rooms for Master's-side Debtors. Down eighteen steps is a small Court-yard, which was common to Debtors and Felons. It is lately divided, but the high close pales which separate the two Courts, now so very small, deprive both Debtors and Felons of the benefit of fresh air. The former in their free ward, the Pope's Kitchen; the latter in their day-room, the King's Kitchen. Both these are six steps below the Yard: each of them about thirty-five feet by twenty-two. Near the former is the Condemned Room. Under the King's Kitchen is the King's Cellar; quite useless. Under the Pope's Kitchen is a dark Room or Passage twenty-four feet by ten: to it you descend twenty-one steps from the Yard. On one side of it are six Cells (Stalls), each about seven feet and a half by three and a half, with a barrack-bedstead, and a small aperture over the door. In each of these are locked up at night, sometimes three or four Felons. No window: not a breath of fresh air: only an aperture with a grate in the ceiling of the Passage, into the Pope's Kitchen above. They pitch these Dungeons three or four times a year: when I was in one of them, I ordered the door to be shut; and my situation brought to mind what I had heard of the Black Hole at Calcutta.

The Felons Day-room is not secure. They escaped in 1775 by breaking through the slight floor into the King's Cellar below; and through the decayed walls of that they made their way down the hill. The Keeper, who is careful and humane, was not blameable.

444 CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

[Chester Castle.]

No Infirmary: no straw: Transports have not the King's allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. Of the seven Debtors whom I law last, five were imprisoned by Exchequer Writs*.

A TABLE OF FEES

To be taken by the Constable of the Castle — as the County Gaol — settled — in the — Quarter Sessions — at Namptwich — 15th July 1729 and afterwards confirmed — by his Majesty's Chief Justice of Chester and Judge of Assize — and Justices of the Peace — in pursuance of a late Act — for the Relief of Debtors &c.

£. S. D.

Commitment Fee, for every Prisoner — 0: 8: 2

Chamber Rent, Prisoner finding his own bedding per week — 0: 1: 0

Bedding per week if found by the Constable — 0: 1: 0

Discharging Fee — 0: 1: 0

To the Turnkey on Discharge — 0: 0: 6

For a Copy of every Commitment — 0: 1: 0

For Attendance into Court with every Prisoner brought there by Rule of Court — 0: 1: 0

For the Stone Parlour, Bed and Furniture if required per week — 0: 5: 0

For every Felon committed per week — 0: 0: 6

Signed by eight Justices.

Confirmed by J. WILLES Sep. 13. 1729.

* I have in two of my visits seen the places of confinement for Deserers in this Castle, who are not under the care of the Gaoler, but of the Invalids of the Garrison. They are bad unhealthy Cells; often productive of the Gaol-Fever. An Officer at Worcester informed me, that having sent a Serjeant and two Men for two Deserters lodged here, three of them died a few days after they came to their quarters, and he had them buried privately, without military honours, to the surprize of the Soldiers, who knew not the reason,

Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE. 445

[Chester Castle.]

We whose names are subscribed his Majesty's Justices of the Peace do approve the above Table of Fees and the additional Fee of six pence per week. Witness our Hands April 7. 1730.

Signed by five Justices*.

A LIST — of all gifts legacies &c. — upon the best Examination — given for the Benefit — of poor Prisoners — within — the Castle of Chester.

Mr. John Norney — Citizen and Merchant-Taylor of London — by his Will — 10th October 1615 left — six shillings and eight pence to be distributed on Candlemas yearly for ever by the Mayor &c, — to the poor Prisoners — in Money or Bread.

Valentine Broughton — of Chester Alderman — by his Will 16th June 1603 left — thirteen shillings and four pence to be distributed at Michaelmas and Lady-day yearly for ever by the Mayor — to the Prisoners in the Castle — by equal portions, or twenty days after.

The above written Table of Fees — and List — of Gifts — are true Copies —

Tho Tagg Cl. Pacis.

RULES to be observed within the Gaol of the Castle of Chester.

1st. ALL Prisoners to behave — respectfully to Keeper — Whoever — strike or assault any — to be punished by a Justice at discretion.

2. No Cursing or Swearing — No Gaming in the Hall nor in private.

3. Prisoners to retire to their respective rooms — from Lady-day to Michaelmas at nine — from Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight — to be let out in morning — Lady-day to Michaelmas at six — Michaelmas to Lady-day at eight.

* The Table having hung against a damp wall, the Justices Names are not legible.

446 CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

[Chester Castle.]

4. Friends or Relations — to bring necessaries, — being — searched for Instruments if required — Not to stay long — without leave, except in — sickness — nor after the hours of locking up.

5. Felons &c. — to be in the Lower Court — except leave &c.

6. Whereas it is usual for the Prisoners to go into the Castle-yard an hour morning and afternoon for air except in time of Assize Sessions &c. — None to go to the Castle-gate or over the Pavement leading &c. — nor out of the Limits — nor intermix with the Soldiers on Guard.

7. No Prisoner to remove — the Keeper's beds &t. — nor his own bed — without Gaoler's consent.

8. Prisoners may bring their own beds, and take them away. If they choose the Keeper's bed — pay a shilling at the end of every week. Upon Non-payment the Gaoler may take the bed, and put the Prisoner to lie in the Pope's Kitchen or any other free ward.

9. The Public Hall to be swept and cleaned by the Prisoners daily.

AT the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace held at Namptwich — 14th July — 4th George II. 1730

We whose Names are subscribed Justices of the Peace assembled in open Sessions aforesaid do approve of the said Rules to be observed in the Gaol of the said Castle of Chester.

Cha Dukenfield

F Poole

T Cholmondeley

Three more not legible.

We do approve of these Rules

J WILLES W JESSOP

Chester Circuit, CHESHIRE. 447

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MIDDLEWICH.

This Prison has been lately much improved by the addition of a Work-room; a little Room at the end of it, which they call a Shop; and some Chambers over them. At one side of the Work-room is a strong brick Bench against the wall, long enough for several to fit on: and fronting the fire-place is another strong brick Seat, almost a semicircle. Two of the old Rooms have now a window in each: the other have only perforations in the doors. I found at my last visit all the Prisoners, but two, employed in picking Oakum; the other two were Shoe-makers, working at their own trade. The Yard is enlarged from the Keeper's Garden, and flagged with broad stones, which are very convenient, not only for cleanliness &c. but particularly for drying the Oakum. The Partition between this and the Garden, is a brick wall about one third of the height, and the rest strong palisades with tenter-hooks. This is a judicious contrivance for keeping the Yard and House airy and healthy.

1774, Nov. 8, Prisoners 3,

1776, Sep. 14, - 9.

448 CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

CHESTER CITY and COUNTY GAOL.

GAOLER, Samuel Waterwoods.

Salary, £10.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 8: 8,

Felons, 0: 6: 6.

Transports, £6: 10: 0 each.

Licence for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a penny loaf a day. (Little more than half a pound in Feb. 1775.)

Garnish, £0: 3: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, March 29, - 8 - 10,

1775, Feb. 1, - 6 - 2,

1775, Nov. 25, 8 - 2,

1776, Sep. 14, 1 - 2

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Duke. (See Remarks.)

Duty

Salary, £10.

SURGEON, (See Remarks.)

Salary,

Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE. 449

CHESTER CITY.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, called the North-Gate Prison, has many convenient apartments for Debtors. The Felons Day-room is spacious: but to their Dungeon, or Night-room, you go down fourteen steps. It is fourteen feet by eight, and seven high. No light nor any communication with the external air, but at the door. The Prisoners in March 1774 complained of excessive heat: but in my latter visits I found they had been lodged elsewhere. No bedding nor straw. The Court-yard is common to Debtors and Felons: but the former have the privilege of walking in the Keeper's Garden.

Mr. Duke is Chaplain to the Blue-Coat School; and officiates in little. St. John's Chapel belonging to the School. A Navigation parts that from the Prison-yard; and a foot bridge, made for the purpose, gives these Prisoners an opportunity of attending Divine Service when it is performed; that is Prayers twice a week, and Sermon once a month. Few Prisoners in City or Town Gaols have such a privilege.

In November 1775 several Prisoners were ill in bed of the Cold which then generally prevailed; yet the Surgeon had not, for three weeks, either seen them himself, or sent his man.

450 CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

[Chester City.]

TABLE of FEES and RULES.

The Rules for this Gaol being in substance, and almost in words, the same as the first four Rules for the Castle, I will not transcribe them; but desire my Reader to refer to them.

THE GAOLER'S FEES.

£. S. D.

Upon any Arrest for any Person that shall be brought and committed to the said Prison — 0: 5: 10

For every Execution charged upon the Prisoner — 0: 4: 2

Upon every Commitment by the Mayor for a Misdemeanor if a Freeman — 0: 2: 4

If a Foreigner — 0: 4: 0

For the Blue Room to a Gentleman committed Prisoner, per week — 0: 5: 0

For Lodging every night in a Feather Bed — 0: 0: 4

In a Flock or Chaff Bed — 0: 0: 2

Chamber rent per week the Prisoner finding his own bedding — 0: 1: 0

For every Felon committed to Prison the Keeper's Fees for Irons and Continuance — 0: 2: 6

If any Person attached by Form of Attachment out of the Exchequer at Chester be brought to the said Prison the Keeper's Fee thereon — 0: 8*: 8

If any Person shall be arrested by Form of a Writ out of any of the Courts at Westminster and be brought to the said Prison the Keeper's Fee — 0: 6: 3

For attending the Court with every Prisoner — 0: 1: 0

For every Felon committed per week — 0: 0: 0

For a Copy of every Commitment — 0: 1: 0

To the Turnkey on Discharge — 0: 0: 6

* The first figure 8 seems altered from 6.

Chester Circuit. CHESHIRE. 451

CHESTER CITY BRIDEWELL.

Out of repair; and not safe: no yard: no water: no allowance: no employment. They are building a large Workshop, and rooms over it. Below are two new Dungeons about nine feet under ground, I told the Keeper that I wished the Contriver of these might be the first who lodged in them. I heard they intend to enclose a Courtyard: I hope they will not forget a Pump.

Here were several leaden weights marked 30, 40, 60 pounds, with a ring and chains to each: these are fastened, as the Magistrates order, or the Keeper finds needful, to the legs of refractory Prisoners, that they may not walk without carrying the weight. The Keeper said he had some Women so turbulent that it was extremely difficult to make them behave orderly, while they were kept together.

1775, Feb. 1, Prisoners 2,

1775, Nov. 25, - 0,

1776, Sep. 14, - 12.

MACCLESFIELD PRISON.

This Prison for the Liberty of the Hundred, Manor, and Forest of Macclesfield, in the Pinfold or Pound for that Hundred, is the Property of Lord Derby. It has four Rooms; and a Dungeon which is down seven steps, eleven feet by nine. The windows of the rooms

452 CHESHIRE. Chester Circuit.

glazed; no casements. The Building is slight, and the whole of it ruinous. — Keeper, John Haslehurst, is a Bailiff; Keeps a Public-house; and has a Lease of the whole for sixty years at £13 clear of Taxes. No Salary: Fees 7s. 6d. no Table.

1776, Sep. 15, Debtors 2.

MACCLESFIELD TOWN BRIDEWELL

Is a ruinous Room behind the Keeper's House. Only one window twelve inches by six. The Keeper told me he was sometimes obliged to confine men and women together in it. Salary twenty shillings; Fees one shilling.

1776, Sep. 15, No Prisoners.

HAULTON CASTLE GAOL.

I should scarecely have mentioned this Prison, since for a number of years past: no person has been confined in it, had I not found that in an Inscription in the Court-room, dated 1737, it is still called a Gaol with a Court-yard.

The Earl of Cholmondeley is Proprietor under the Crown; and Quarterly Courts are held here for the Manor. Two Cellars in the Building appear to have been used for the purpose of confining Prisoners,

1777, March 19, No Prisoners.

Chester Circuit. FLINTSHIRE. 453

COUNTY GAOL at FLINT.

GAOLER, John Williams.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 6: 0,

Felons, 0: 3: 6.

Transports, the Expense.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } each weekly 1s. 6d. in bread, and 6d. money.

Felons, }

Garnish, £0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, June 25, - 4 - 1,

1776, Sep. 13, - 1 - 0.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Davies.

Duty — Wednesday and Friday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Ingleby at Holywell,

Salary, none; he makes a Bill.

454 FLINTSHIRE. Chester Circuit.

FLINT.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is also the Bridewell. — On the ground-floor are the Gaoler's apartments. — For Debtors there are, up stairs, a Common Ward; and two other Rooms. — They have also a Court-yard, backwards. — For Felons and Petty Offenders, two dark Closets, the Black Holes, on the same floor as the Debtors rooms: they are each five feet by four; and were the only receptacles for Criminals till a few years ago, when a Dungeon in the Yard was added. This is down eight steps: rain comes through the roof upon the barrack-beds. A Court before it about five yards square: water laid in. When Men are here, Women are put in the dark Closets.

Great sessions at Mold: Conveyance thither at the Gaoler's Expense. He has a Salary of£25 as Keeper of Bridewell.

Near twenty years ago, here was a Debtor who insisted upon not being subject to the Gaoler, nor to any Orders but such as should be enjoined by the Magistrates. Upon this occasion, the Justices at the Quarter Sessions held at Holywell in July 1759 made some salutary Rules for the government of this Prison, resembling those for Chester Castle, which are hung up in the Gaol. It is probable the man knew he had a Statute to support his claim, namely, the Act the 32d of George the Second.

Chester Circuit. FLINTSHIRE. 455

TABLE OF FEES.

[Flint.]

Flintshire, to wit.

AT the Court of Great Session held at Flint — on — 22d of August — 5th — of our Sovereign Lord

George III — 1765 before the Honble John Morton Esq. Chief Justice of — Chester, Flint, Denbigh, and Montgomery; and Taylor White Esq. his Majesty's other Justice there assigned &c. — It is — Ordered that the Gaoler for the time being do take no more than the Fees and Allowances hereafter mentioned which the Court conceive to be sufficient and reasonable

(That is to say)

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of this County.

£. S. D.

For the Receipt of every Prisoner for Debt — 0: 2: 6

For the Use of the Bedstead and Chamber by the week the Prisoner finding his own Bedding — 0: 1: 0

If the Bedding found by Gaoler per week then — 0: 2: 0

For a Copy of every Commitment — 0: 1: 0

Attending every Prisoner brought by Rule of Court — 0: 1: 0

Fee on Prisoner's Discharge — 0: 2: 6

Turnkey's Fee on Prisoner's Discharge — 0: 1: 0

The above Table of Fees is ratified and confirmed by

JOHN MORTON

456

DENBIGHSHIRE. Chester Circuit

COUNTY GAOL at RUTHIN.

GAOLER, Joseph Stoddard.

Salary, £10.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 6: 0.

Felons, 0: 3: 6.

Transports, £ 1 each to Chester.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, 1s. 6d. a week.

Garnish, Debtors, £0: 2: 6,

Felons, 0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, June 25, - 8 - 5,

1776, Sep. 13, - 2 - 1.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Peirce.

Duty — Sunday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, Mr. Nichells.

Salary, none: he makes a Bill.

[Remarks.]

THE OLD GAOL was also a County Bridewell. A New Gaol is almost finished. The Front is for the Gaoler. Backwards, on the ground-floor, a large Day-room or Kitchen for Debtors; and another

Chester Circuit. DENBIGHSHIRE. 457

[Ruthin.]

as large for Criminals: and for the latter, four Cells, seven feet and a half by six; — two on each side of a passage only three feet wide. Above are nine Rooms and a neat Chapel. Separate Court-yards for Debtors and Criminals. The Gentlemen will scarcely forget an Infirmary; and separating Women from Men.

Great sessions, of late, always at Wrexham; and Conveyance thither at the Gaoler's Expense. He has a Salary of £10 as Keeper of Bridewell.

The Old Gaol may be made a convenient Bridewell, and then Prisoners might be more properly separated. A way might also be made to the Chapel.

TABLE OF FEES.

Denbighshire, to wit.

AT the General Quarter Sessions — at Denbigh — on the 16th day of April in the 5th — of our Sovereign Lord George III — 1765 before John Edwards Junr. and John Conway Esqrs. and others — Justices — it is — Ordered that the Gaoler for the time being do take no more than the Fees and Allowance hereafter mentioned which this Court conceive to be sufficient and reasonable

(That is to say)

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of this County.

£. S. D.

Fees on the Receipt of every Prisoner — 0: 2: 6

For the use of the Bedstead and Chamber per week the Prisoner finding his own Bedding — 0: 1: 0

If Bedding be found by the Gaoler then per week — 0: 2: 0

458 DENBIGHSHIRE. Chester Circuit.

£. S. D.

For a Copy of every Commitment — 0: 1: 0

Attending every Prisoner brought up by Rule of Court — 0: 1: 0

Fee on Prisoner's Discharge — 0: 2: 6

Turnkey's Fee on Prisoner's Discharge — 0: 1: 0

The above Table of Fees is ratified and confirmed by

John Morton

By the Court

Jno. Hosier Clerk of the Peace

ANOTHER

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at WREXHAM.

This is only Part of an House, the whole of which seems to have been formerly the Bridewell; but most of it is now the Parish-Poor-house. The Prison has — on the ground-floor the Keeper's rooms and stable; and for Prisoners, two dark offensive rooms, without any window: a wall within six feet of the doors: Prisoners have, with just cause, complained of being almost suffocated; and begged to be let out for Air into the Keeper's Garden, on the other side of the House. — Up stairs are three rooms for those who can pay. All dirty and out of repair. No water. Keeper a Sheriff's Officer: Salary £8.

1774, March 30, Prisoners 2,

1776, Sep, 12, - 1.

Chester Circuit. MONTGOMERYSHIRE. 459

COUNTY GAOL at MONTGOMERY.

GAOLER, William Davies.

Salary, £12: 12: 0 from the Sheriff.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 8: 0,

Felons, 0: 14: 4.

Transports, about £10: 10: 0 each.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, on application, the same as Felons.

Felons, two 14d. loaves a week.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, June 29, - 3 - 4,

1775, Nov. 29, - 2 - 0.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Powell.

Duty — Sunday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEONS, Three, in Quarterly Rotation.

Salary, £5 each.

460 MONTGOMERYSHIRE, Chester Circuit.

MONTGOMERY.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is finely situated on a rising ground. Apartments for Debtors, and Wards for Felons, convenient and kept clean. Court-yard common. The fine Stream of Water lately running through the Yard is cut off. Great Sessions always at Welch Pool; whither Prisoners are conveyed at the Gaoler's Expense.

The Table of Fees not legible.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at MONTGOMERY.

A room or two in a House at the lower end of the Towns out of repair.

1775, Nov. 29, No Prisoners.

North Wales Circuit. ANGLESEY. 461

COUNTY GAOL at BEAUMARIS.

GAOLER, William Thomas.

Salary, £5 from the Sheriff.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 2: 6

Felons, }

Transports, the Expense.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a shilling a week.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, June 27, - 2 - 0.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is also the County Bridewell. It is dirty. The Felons Room convenient, but seldom occupied. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. The Gaoler has £5 a year as Keeper of Bridewell. No Table of Fees,

462 CARNARVONSHIRE. North Wales Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at CARNARVON.

GAOLER, —— Thomas.

Salary, £5 from the Sheriff.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 3: 6 Entrance,

0: 2: 6 Discharge.

Felons, none.

Transports, the Expense. licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, 2s. 6d. a week each. (See Remarks.)

Garnish, a shilling.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, June 27, - 2 - 1.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is also the Bridewell. Rooms incommodious and dirty. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. Great Sessions at Conway. —— Thomas has £5 a year as Keeper of Bridewell. He stops from each Felon's allowance six pence a week for, what he calls, his Trouble of Weekly Payments. No Table of Fees.

I hear the County intend to build a new Gaol.

North Wales Circuit. MERIONETHSHIRE. 463

COUNTY GAOL at DOLGELLY.

GAOLER, Edward Rees.

Salary, £8.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 5: 0.

Felons, }

Transports, the Expense.

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, } none.

Felons, }

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, June 28, - 1 - 1.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL was built five or six years ago. Windows close glazed: rooms dirty; although so few Prisoners. I was informed that there had been only two Executions for fifty years past. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. No Table of Fees. Great Sessions at Bala.

464 CARDIGANSHIRE. Carmarthen Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at CARDIGAN.

GAOLER, Charles Thomas.

Salary, £12, but not fixed.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 13: 4.

Felons, }

Transports, the Expense.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, two shillings a week.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, August 13, - 4 - 0.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Davies.

Duty — Sunday.

Salary, £16.

SURGEON,

Salary, £10.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, which is to be the Bridewell also, was just finished when I was there, but not inhabited: the Prisoners were in the Gaoler's house. The Prison-rooms are too low; and close glazed; no casements: no water in the Court-yard. C. Thomas has £2 a year as Bridewell-Keeper. No Table of Fees.

Carmarthen Circuit. PEMBROKESHIRE. 465

COUNTY GAOL at HAVERFORDWEST.

GAOLER, Richard Griffith.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 13: 4.

Felons, }

Transports,

Licence, none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, certified from their Parish, } a penny a day.

Felons, }

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Aug. 14, - 4 - 1.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Jones.

Duty — Wednesday and Friday.

Salary, £20.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is also the Bridewell. Six Rooms. The two lowest are very damp Dungeons: in one of these, as I was informed, a Prisoner lost, first the use of his limbs, and then his life: since that time, none have been confined in either of them. The upper rooms are dirty and offensive, with small windows. No sewers: no Court-yard:

466 PEMBROKESHIRE. Carmarthen Circuit.

[Haverfordwest.]

Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. No Table of Fees. R. Griffith has £8 a year as Bridewell-Keeper. The County are applying for an Act, in order to build a new Gaol.

At HAVERFORDWEST is also the

TOWN and COUNTY GAOL; which is likewise the Bridewell. It has convenient Rooms, and they are kept clean. No Court: no water. The Workshop used by a Carpenter.

1774, Aug. 14, No Prisoners.

Carmarthen Circuit. CARMARTHENSHIRE. 467

COUNTY GAOL, CARMARTHEN CASTLE.

GAOLER, John Williams.

Salary, none.

Fees, Debtors, £0: 13: 4,

Felons, 0: 3: 4.

Transports, £5 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none.

Felons, a shilling a week.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Aug. 15, - 16 - 10,

1776, Sep. 8, - 4 - 7. (See Remarks.)

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Davies.

Duty — Sunday.

Salary, £12: 12: 0.

SURGEON, Mr. Price.

Salary, £20.

468 CARMARTHENSHIRE. Carmarthen Circuit.

CARMARTHEN CASTLE.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL is also the County Bridewell. The old apartments are too close; and so are the new Cells for Criminals. These are about seven feet by six: apertures in the doors only about nine inches square: earth-floors. The Day-room is used as a Chapel. Over it is a free ward: and over that, a room for the sick. The condemned Dungeon is damp; a small window. One Court-yard; but it is spacious. A House for the Gaoler, lately built in the yard; but he still lives distant, as before. It has convenient rooms for Master's-side Debtors; and an Alarm Bell at top: by ringing it, a Debtor lately prevented an escape of the Felons. No water: the Well is useless; and the Gaol offensive. — Houses in the neighbourhood have water laid in — Transports have not the King's allowance of 2s. 6d. a week. Clauses of the Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up. No Table of Fees. J. Williams has £12: 12: 0 a year as Keeper of Bridewell. To this Prison there are Rules or Bounds, which extend near a mile round.

Two of the Offenders, whom I saw last time, were for Fines which they can never pay. They have not the County-allowance, and were almost starved.

The Gaoler was desirous of farming the Allowance: but the abuse of such a trust by the Gaoler at Brecon had been detested; and the request of this Gaoler was not granted.

Carmarthen Circuit. CARMARTHENSHIRE. 469

At CARMARTHEN is also the

COUNTY-BOROUGH-GAOL.

To the four rooms of this Gaol at the Gate, you ascend by stone steps on the outside. No yard: no water. Keeper, one of the Town-Sheriffs, lives distant. — At my first visit a young creature committed for a petty Theft, had been there four months, and was sick on the floor. At my last, a Debtor sick in bed. Besides the four Prisoners whom I saw, the Sheriff told me he had one in the Rules which are of small extent. — Food &c. for the Prisoners is put through an aperture at bottom of the door: a little girl, the daughter of a Prisoner, could just get through it to fetch water &c.

Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Aug. 15, - 0 - 1,

1776, Sep. 8, - 3 - 1.

470 RADNORSHIRE. South Wales Circuit.

COUNTY GAOL at PRESTEIGN.

GAOLER, John Thomas.

Salary, £10 from the Sheriff.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 6: 8

Felons, }

Transports, the Treasurer has £5 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on application.

Felons, a three-penny loaf for two days.

Garnish, £0: 1: 0.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, June 30, - 4 - 3,

1775, Nov. 30, - 3 - 1.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, None.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL, which is also the County Bridewell, is out of repair. Only one Court-yard. Felons Night-room down three steps, and not secure: earth-floor; no straw. Keeper's House distant; but his Garden, contiguous, is a proper spot on which to enlarge the Gaol. Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors not hung up: no Table of Fees. J. Thomas has £2 a year as Bridewell-Keeper.

South Wales Circuit. BRECONSHIRE. 471

COUNTY GAOL at BRECON.

GAOLER, Magdalen Williams.

Salary, none: but £31: 10: 0 a year to supply Felons with necessary Food.

Fees, Debtors, } £0: 7: 0.

Felons, }

Transports, £5 each.

Licence, for Beer.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on applying to Justices,

Felons, farmed as above.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Aug. 11, - 7 - 3,

1776, Sep. 9, - 4 - 1.

CHAPLAIN, Rev. Mr. Hugh Jones.

Duty — Wednesday or Friday.

Salary, £10.

SURGEON, Mr. Williams.

Salary, £5.

472 BRECONSHIRE. South Wales Circuit.

BRECON.

[Remarks.]

THIS GAOL out of repair; but at my last visit not dirty.

Two Courts common to Debtors and Felons: they also lodge together. Some of the Rooms close glazed. A dark Dungeon: the door of it repairing; yet the Gaoler's son told me it was never used. At my first visit the Prisoners almost starved by the Gaoler. Two Gentlemen of the County, who were then in the Gaol with me, seemed to resent the abuse. — No straw. — No Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors: no Table of Fees. Transports have not the King's allowance of 2s. 6d. a week.

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at BRECON.

One Room in the Keeper's House for Women; and two in the Back-yard for Men: the whole out of repair, and not secure. No allowance: no water. Keeper no Salary. I am informed the County intend building a new Bridewell.

1776, Sep. 9, No Prisoners.

BRECON TOWN GAOL,

Over the Gate-way. Out of repair: no Court-yard: no water: Gaoler no Salary; he sells beer.

1776, Sep. 9, No Prisoners.

South Wales Circuit. GLAMORGANSHIRE 473

COUNTY GAOL at CARDIFF.

GAOLER, Thomas Lewis; now William Cobb.

Salary, none: but he farms the Allowance. (See Remarks.)

Fees, Debtors, £0: 14: 4,

Felons, 0: 7: 8.

Transports, £5 each.

Licence, of late none.

PRISONERS,

Allowance, Debtors, none but on application to the Justices.

Felons, ten pence halfpenny each on Saturday.

Garnish, £0: 2: 6.

Number of - Debtors. - Felons &c.

1774, Aug. 19, - 14 - 2,

1776, Sep. 6, - 2 - 2.

CHAPLAIN, None.

SURGEON, Mr. Williams.

Salary, £10.

474 GLAMORGANSHIRE. South Wales Circuit.

CARDIFF.

[Remarks.]

THE NEW GAOL, not finished, is to consist of three separate Houses, with Court-yards between them. The Old Gaol to be taken down; and in Front (where it now stands), is to be the House for Debtors: a Court behind it — Then the Gaoler's House: this is built; two rooms on a floor. Behind it, the Felons Court-yard; and beyond that, their House or Wards; which are also built: on the ground-floor, a small room for the Turnkey; and three vaulted rooms: above them three chambers, twelve feet and a half by ten.

The Gaoler's house being in the middle, he will have both Debtors and Felons in view: but his passing to the street through the Debtors house, may be dangerous to him when they prove riotous.

He undertakes for £40 a year to pay Felons ten pence halfpenny a week; and find them straw: and to pay a shilling a week to such Debtors as the Justices shall appoint. No Table of Fees.

Great sessions always at Cowbridge. — The late Gaoler informed me, that an Exchequer Debtor confined ten years for seven pounds died in the Gaol just before I was there.

South Wales Circuit. GLAMORGANSHIRE. 475

COUNTY BRIDEWELL at COWBRIDGE.

Besides the Old Room, there are two Rooms lately built in the Back-yard; each fifteen feet square. In them provision is made for the circulation of air; and there is now little danger of the Gaol-Fever of which the Keeper told me, at my first visit, many had died: a man and woman about a year before; when himself and his daughter were also ill of it. No sewer: no water: no Court-yard; one may be easily enclosed from the Ground adjacent. No allowance. Keeper's Salary £25: 12: 0.

1774, Aug. 19, } No Prisoners,

1776, Sep. 6, }

TABLES

RELATIVE TO

FEES, NUMBERS OF CRIMINALS, &c.

TABLE I.

A LIST of FEES due to the Clerks of Assize of the several Circuits in England, and their Offices, from Prisoners charged with Felony — Burnt in the Hand — Whipped — Acquitted — Discharged by Proclamation — or against whom Bills are returned by the Grand-Jury not true Bills.

HOME CIRCUIT,

£. S. D.

Burnt in the Hand — 0 4 8

Whipped — 0 4 8

Acquitted — 0 8 4

Discharged by Proclamation — 0 8 4

According every Ignoramus in Felony — 0 6 4

NORFOLK CIRCUIT,

Acquitted and Order of Delivery in Murder — 1 8 0

The like in all other Felons — 1 1 4

Order on Delivery on Proclamation — 0 15 8

Ditto on Ignoramus Bill — 0 13 4

478 TABLES.

MIDLAND CIRCUIT,

£. S. D.

Acquitted and Discharge Fee in Murder — 1 7 8

The like in other Felons — 1 6 8

Discharge Fee according — 1 0 0

Discharge Fee or Proclamation — 0 13 4

OXFORD CIRCUIT,

For every Prisoner acquitted of Felony on one Indictment discharged — 0 17 4

For every Acquittal after the first — 0 8 8

For every Prisoner discharged by Proclamation — 0 9 0

Guilty Burnt in the Hand or Whipped and Discharged — 0 14 0

WESTERN CIRCUIT,

Acquitted including Plea and Discharge — 1 10 8

Ignoramus 13s. 4d. and Discharge 13s. 4d. — 1 6 8

Discharge by Proclamation — 0 13 4

Conviction in Man-slaughter — 0 17 4

NORTHERN CIRCUIT,

Not guilty Discharged — 1 5 4

Discharged by Proclamation — 0 14 8

TABLES, 479

TABLE II.

HOME CIRCUIT.

TOTAL ACCOUNT of Prisoners Burnt in the Hand-Whipped — Acquitted — Discharged by Proclamation — or against: whom Bills have been returned Not found — in the Counties of Hertford, Essex, Kent, Sussex and Surry, for seven Years, from the Year 1764 to 1770 Inclusive.

Burnt in the Hand. - Whipped. - Acquitted. - Discharged by Proclamation. - Bills not found. - Total.

Hertford — 9 - 12 - 36 - 47 - 31 - 136

Essex — 24 - 35 - 71 - 62 - 31 - 223

Kent — 75 - 20 - 132 - 91 - 34 - 352

Sussex — 11 - 15 - 23 - 16 - 4 - 69

Surry — 40 - 14 - 124 - 77 - 24 - 279

Total — 159 - 96 - 386 - 293 - 125 - 1059

[ 480 - 481 ]

TABLE III.

An Account of the Number of Prisoners Tried and Acquitted - of Prisoners Convicted and Sentenced to be Burnt in the Hand and Discharged - of Prisoners Sentenced to be Whipped and Discharged - and of Prisoners Discharged by Proclamation - at the several Assizes and General Gaol-Deliveries held in and for the several Counties and Cities within the OXFORD CIRCUIT for Seven Years ending at Michaelmas 1771.

Berkshire - Oxfordshire - Worcestershire - City of Worcester - Gloucestershire - City of Gloucester - Monmouthshire - Herefordshire - Shropshire - Staffordshire.

Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation. / Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation. / Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation. / Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation. / Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation. / Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation. / Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation. / Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation. / Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation. / Not Guilty Discharged. - Burnt in the Hand and Discharged. - Whipped and Discharged. - Discharged by Proclamation.

1765 - 10 - 2 - 0 - 3 - 6 - 0 - 1 - 3 - 14 - 2 - 2 - 5 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 12 - 0 - 1 - 5 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 7 - 1 - 0 - 2 - 13 - 0 - 0 - 6 - 10 - 5 - 0 - 14 - 11 - 1 - 0 - 6 - 1765

1766 - 11 - 1 - 2 - 9 - 8 - 0 - 0 - 5 - 18 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 17 - 1 - 0 - 5 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 10 - 4 - 0 - 3 - 16 - 0 - 0 - 4 - 22 - 4 - 0 - 7 - 1766

1767 - 10 - 0 - 1 - 2 - 16 - 0 - 2 - 3 - 14 - 2 - 3 - 6 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 16 - 0 - 1 - 5 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 3 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 9 - 0 - 0 - 10 - 11 - 1 - 0 - 8 - 20 - 3 - 3 - 8 - 1767

1768 - 14 - 0 - 0 - 7 - 11 - 0 - 1 - 6 - 12 - 1 - 0 - 7 - 1 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 20 - 2 - 1 - 4 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 6 - 1 - 0 - 2 - 7 - 0 - 0 - 5 - 10 - 3 - 2 - 3 - 22 - 0 - 1 - 7 - 1768

1769 - 4 - 2 - 0 - 1 - 7 - 0 - 0 - 5 - 12 - 0 - 0 - 10 - 1 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 10 - 0 - 0 - 8 - 1 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 7 - 1 - 0 - 3 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 12 - 1 - 2 - 4 - 10 - 1 - 0 - 8 - 1769

1770 - 3 - 0 - 0 - 4 - 5 - 0 - 0 - 4 - 7 - 1 - 0 - 7 - 1 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 10 - 1 - 0 - 7 - 1 - 0 - 0 - 3 - 5 - 0 - 0 - 4 - 15 - 1 - 0 - 3 - 14 - 1 - 3 - 11 - 7 - 0 - 0 - 3 - 1770

1771 - 9 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 3 - 0 - 0 - 3 - 8 - 1 - 1 - 7 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 21 - 1 - 0 - 2 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 5 - 0 - 0 - 6 - 8 - 0 - 0 - 4 - 4 - 0 - 0 - 5 - 20 - 2 - 1 - 6 - 1771

Total - 61 - 5 - 3 - 28 - 56 - 0 - 4 - 29 - 85 - 7 - 6 - 44 - 9 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 106 - 5 - 3 - 36 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 7 - 35 - 3 - 0 - 20 - 68 - 5 - 0 - 33 - 77 - 11 - 7 - 49 - 112 - 11 - 5 - 45 - Total

Total. Not Guilty Discharged - 615

Burnt in the Hand and Discharged - 47

Whipped and Discharged - 28

Discharged by Proclamation - 293

Great Total - 983

482 TABLES.

TABLE IV.

ABSTRACT of Sir Stephen Theodore Janssen's Table of Criminals Condemned; Executed; and Pardoned: at the Old Bailey, London.

Condemned. - Executed. - Pardoned &c.

Peace 1749 - 61 - 44 - 17

1750 - 84 - 56 - 28

1751 - 85 - 63 - 22

1752 - 52 - 47 - 5

1753 - 57 - 41 - 16

1754 - 50 - 34 - 6

1755 - 39 - 21 - 18

428 - 306 - 122

Peace and War 1756 - 30 - 13 - 17

War 1757 - 37 - 26 - 11

1758 - 32 - 20 - 12

1759 - 15 - 6 - 9

1760 - 14 - 10 - 4

1761 - 22 - 17 - 5

1762 - 25 - 15 - 10

War and Peace 1763 - 61 - 32 - 29

236 - 139 - 97

Peace 1764 - 52 - 31 - 21

1765 - 41 - 26 - 15

1766 - 39 - 20 - 19

1767 - 49 - 22 - 27

1768 - 54 - 27 - 27

1769 - 71 - 24 - 47

1770 - 91 - 49 - 42

1771 - 60 - 34 - 26

457 - 233 - 224

1121 - 678 - 443

TABLES. 483

OF 120 Sessions in the 15 Years of Peace (8 in a year) only one was Maiden; in 1749. Of the 64 Sessions in the 8 Years of War, nine were Maiden.

Murder. - Housebreaking - Highway. - Horse-stealing. - Forgery. - Coining. - Returning from Transportation. - Defrauding Creditors. - Shoplifting Riot and 12 other Crimes. - Total.

Sentenced to Death - 81 - 208 - 362 - 90 - 95 - 11 - 31 - 3 - 240 - 1121

Executed - 72 - 118 - 251 - 22 - 71 - 10 - 22 - 3 - 1O9 - 678

Pardoned, Transported, or died in Gaol - 9 - 90 - 111 - 68 - 24 - 1 - 9 - 0 - 131 - 443

Sir Stephen intending a List only of those who were condemned to die, has not in his Table a Column for Transport Convicts. But at the bottom of the Sheet he notes that there were

Transported for seven or fourteen Years - 5199

To which Number he adds

Transported by the King's Mercy after receiving Sentence of Death - 401

Total Transports - 5600

Th Second Number of Transports 401 is, doubtless, part of the Number 443,

the last of the three Totals above.

[ 484 ]

TABLE V.

An ACCOUNT of the Number of Criminals Condemned to Death; Executed.; and Sentenced to Transportation: with their respective Offences: from the Year 1750 to 1772 Inclusive; within the several Counties &c. in the NORFOLK CIRCUIT.

Years. - Petty Treason and Murder. - Burglary and House-breaking. - Robbery in Highway & Dwelling. - Horse Stealing, &c. - Forgery. - Returning from Transportation. - Six other Crimes. - Condemned to Death. - Executed. - Reprieved for Transportation. - Grand Larceny. - Petty Larceny. - Seven other Crimes. - Sentenced to Transportation.

1750 - 2 - 3 - 8 - 8 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 21 - 10 - 8 - 24 - 3 - 0 - 35

1751 - 0 - 6 - 4 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 16 - 12 - 12 - 24 - 0 - 0 - 36

1752 - 3 - 3 - 3 - 15 - 1 - 0 - 3 - 28 - 11 - 13 - 28 - 1 - 2 - 44

1753 - 2 - 4 - 2 - 11 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 21 - 6 - 10 - 18 - 1 - 0 - 29

1754 - 0 - 9 - 2 - 17 - 1 - 0 - 4 - 33 - 13 - 20 - 29 - 1 - 4 - 54

1755 - 0 - 2 - 4 - 7 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 14 - 2 - 9 - 20 - 1 - 1 - 31

1756 - 0 - 2 - 2 - 7 - 0 - 0 - 6 - 17 - 1 - 16 - 18 - 1 - 0 - 36

1757 - 1 - 8 - 5 - 11 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 27 - 6 - 12 - 34 - 0 - 1 - 46

1758 - 0 - 2 - 6 - 15 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 24 - 5 - 23 - 31 - 1 - 2 - 57

1759 - 0 - 2 - 3 - 8 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 13 - 3 - 15 - 12 - 2 - 0 - 29

1760 - 0 - 5 - 3 - 3 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 11 - 3 - 11 - 15 - 0 - 1 - 27

1761 - 1 - 1 - 2 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 8 - 2 - 4 - 13 - 0 - 1 - 18

1762 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 2 - 1 - 1 - 8 - 2 - 3 - 1O - 0 - 0 - 15

1763 - 3 - 3 - 1 - 5 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 13 - 5 - 6 - 19 - 1 - 2 - 27

1764 - 0 - 4 - 2 - 8 - 0 - 3 - 2 - 19 - 3 - 10 - 16 - 1 - 4 - 29

1765 - 0 - 4 - 2 - 14 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 20 - 1 - 19 - 29 - 1 - 2 - 52

1766 - 2 - 8 - 4 - 14 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 30 - 4 - 17 - 27 - 0 - 1 - 45

1767 - 2 - 6 - 2 - 14 - 0 - 0 - 6 - 30 - 5 - 38 - 34 - 0 - 0 - 72

1768 - 0 - 1 - 1 - 10 - 0 - 0 - 4 - 16 - 5 - 16 - 35 - 1 - 2 - 55

1769 - 2 - 9 - 1 - 4 - 0 - 1 - 1 - 18 - 6 - 11 - 22 - 0 - 2 - 34

1770 - 0 - 5 - 5 - 12 - 0 - 1 - 1 - 24 - 7 - 17 - 18 - 0 - 0 - 35

1771 - 1 - 4 - 1 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 4 - 16 - 5 - 11 - 30 - 0 - 2 - 43

1772 - 0 - 1 - 1 - 4 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 7 - 0 - 7 - 17 - 0 - 1 - 25

Total - 20 - 93 - 65 - 202 - 4 - 6 - 44 - 434 - 117 - 308 - 523 - 15 - 28 - 874

[ 485 ]

TABLE VI.

An ACCOUNT of the Number of Criminals Condemned to Death; Executed; and Sentenced to Transportation: with their respective Offences: from the Year 1750 to 1772 Inclusive; within the several Counties &c. in the MIDLAND CIRCUIT.

Years. - Treason. - Murder and Petty Treason. - Robbery. - Burglary. - House-breaking in Day-time. - Stealing Horses and other Cattle. - Forgery. - Returning from Transportation. - Six other Crimes. - Condemned to Death. - Executed. - Transported, viz. Capital Offences reprieved, Offences made transportable, Grand and Petty Larceny.

1750 - 1 - 0 - 6 - 4 - 3 - 16 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 32 - 5 - 50

1751 - 0 - 1 - 4 - 5 - 0 - 3 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 13 - 3 - 47

1752 - 0 - 1 - 2 - 0 - 1 - 16 - 0 - 0 - 3 - 23 - 3 - 45

1753 - 0 - 0 - 8 - 1 - 1 - 17 - 1 - 0 - 1 - 29 - 1 - 58

1754 - 0 - 1 - 3 - 1 - 0 - 20 - 0 - 0 - 4 - 29 - 4 - 63

1755 - 0 - 2 - 4 - 2 - 3 - 10 - 0 - 0 - 4 - 25 - 6 - 44

1756 - 2 - 0 - 1 - 4 - 1 - 17 - 1 - 0 - 4 - 30 - 6 - 44

1757 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 3 - 1 - 14 - 0 - 2 - 0 - 22 - 4 - 60

1758 - 0 - 1 - 5 - 5 - 0 - 19 - 1 - 0 - 4 - 35 - 6 - 54

1759 - 0 - 4 - 4 - 0 - 1 - 16 - 1 - 2 - 3 - 31 - 9 - 43

1760 - 0 - 1 - 1 - 0 - 0 - 12 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 15 - 2 - 32

1761 - 1 - 2 - 3 - 1 - 1 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 15 - 5 - 28

1762 - 0 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 8 - 0 - 1 - 0 - 11 - 4 - 23

1763 - 0 - 1 - 4 - 1 - 1 - 9 - 3 - 1 - 3 - 23 - 14 - 45

1764 - 0 - 3 - 6 - 1 - 0 - 14 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 25 - 11 - 63

1765 - 0 - 3 - 4 - 5 - 1 - 9 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 22 - 7 - 62

1766 - 0 - 1 - 4 - 2 - 4 - 12 - 0 - 0 - 3 - 26 - 4 - 63

1767 - 0 - 2 - 4 - 6 - 0 - 11 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 23 - 6 - 45

1768 - 0 - 0 - 2 - 2 - 1 - 17 - 1 - 0 - 0 - 23 - 2 - 49

1769 - 0 - 2 - 5 - 1 - 0 - 10 - 0 - 0 - 5 - 23 - 6 - 37

1770 - 0 - 2 - 3 - 0 - 1 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 14 - 4 - 45

1771 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 3 - 0 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 9 - 2 - 36

1772 - 0 - 1 - 5 - 2 - 0 - 11 - 0 - 0 - 1 - 20 - 2 - 21

Total - 4 - 30 - 80 - 49 - 20 - 279 - 8 - 6 - 42 - 518 - 116 - 1057

[ 486 ]

TABLE VII.

FELONS delivered from NEWGATE to be transported.

Sessions. - London. - Middlesex. - Hicks' Hall. - Westminster - Tower Session - Capital Respites - Total.

1773. January - 10 - 19 - 3 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 38

1773. February - 8 - 24 - 9 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 41

1773. April - 16 - 24 - 19 - 14 - 0 - 20 - 93

1773. May - 10 - 29 - 14 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 53

1773. July - 14 - 49 - 6 - 5 - 0 - 0 - 74

1773. September - 11 -24 - 9 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 44

1773. October - 10 - 17 - 8 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 41

1773. December - 10 - 15 - 9 - 0 - 0 - 17 - 51

89 - 201 - 77 - 31 - 0 - 37 - 435

1774. January - 4 - 18 - 3 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 25

1774. February - 16 - 33 - 7 - 3 - 1 - 0 - 60

1774. April - 15 - 24 - 17 - 13 - 1 - 70

1774. May - 6 - 22 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 30

1774. July - 14 - 22 - 12 - 8 - 4 - 30 - 90

1774. September - 22 - 16 - 10 - 0 - 2 - 1 -51

1774. October - 8 - 8 - 6 - 5 - 1 - 0 - 28

1774. December - 14 - 22 - 16 - 0 - 1 - 13 - 66

99 - 165 - 73 - 29 - 10 - 44 - 420

1775. January - 9 - 29 - 14 - 9 - 0 - 0 - 61

1775. February - 9 - 20 - 7 - 0 - 2 - 0 - 38

1775. April - 19 - 17 - 12 - 4 - 0 - 0 52

1775. May - 5 - 9 - 2 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 16

1775. July - 6 - 11 - 7 - 5 - 0 - 20 - 49

1775. September - 14 - 20 - 6 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 40

1775. October - 9 - 10 - 7 - 4 - 2 - 0 - 32

1775. December - 8 - 9 - 7 - 0 - 1 - 11 - 36

79 - 125 - 62 - 22 - 5 - 31 - 324

Great Total 1179

CONCLUSION.

IT was once my intention to have published the preceding account of English Prisons,* without any of the introductory matter which compotes the former part of this Volume. But thinking, from a close attention to the subject, that it was in my power in some instances to suggest remedies to the evils which I had been witness of; and aware of the common proverbial objection "that it is easier to find faults than to mend them;” I imagined I should be culpable in suppressing any thing which might conduce to improvement in a matter I had so much at heart.

A person of more ability, with my knowledge of facts, would have written better: but my ambition was not the

* My Readers will observe that I do not give this as an account of every single Prison in the Kingdom. Some, doubtless, have escaped my researches; for it was only by assiduous enquiries in my frequent journeys that I was able to discover all those I have mentioned. It will readily be conceived, however, that those I have missed must be of very small consequence.

488 CONCLUSION.

fame of an Author. Hearing the cries of the miserable, I devoted my time to their relief. In order to procure it, I made it my business to collect materials, the authenticity of which could not be disputed. For the warmth of some expressions where my subject obliges me to complain, and for my eagerness to remove the several grievances, my only apology must be drawn from the deep distress of the sufferers, and the impressions the view of it excited in me — impressions too strong to be effaced by any length of time!

What I have proposed throughout my work is liable, I am sensible, to some objections; and these will, doubtless, be heightened by the cavils of those whose interest it is to prevent the reformation of abuses on which their ease or emolument may depend. Yet I hope not to be entirely deserted in the conflict: and, if this publication shall have any effect in alleviating the distresses of poor Debtors and other Prisoners — in procuring for them cleanly and wholesome abodes; and thereby exterminating the Gaol-fever, which has so often spread abroad its dreadful contagion — in abolishing, or at least reducing, the oppressive fees of Clerks of Assize, and of the Peace; and checking the impositions of Gaolers, and the extortion of Bailiffs — in introducing a habit of industry in our Bridewells; and restraining the shocking debauchery and immorality which prevail in our Gaols and other Prisons — if any of these beneficial consequences shall

CONCLUSION. 489

accrue, the writer will be ready to indulge himself with the pleasing thought of not having lived without doing some good to his fellow-creatures; and will think himself abundantly repaid for all the pains he has taken, the time he has spent, and the hazards he has undergone.

Nothing effectual will, however, I am persuaded, be done in reforming the state of our Prisons, till a thorough Parliamentary Inquiry concerning them be set on foot, on which may be grounded one comprehensive Statute for their general regulation. Should this be undertaken, I would cheerfully (relying still on the protection of that kind hand which has hitherto preserved me, and to which I desire to offer my most thankful acknowledgments!) devote my time to one more extensive foreign journey, in which the Prussian and Austrian Territories, and the most considerable free Cities of Germany would probably afford some new and useful lights on this important national concern.

INDEX.

Page

A.

Abingdon Bridewell - 314.

Acquitted Prisoners, detained for Fees - 31.

- seldom employed - 39.

Act for preserving health of Prisoners, its effects - 3, 5.

Acts of French Parliament respecting Prisons - 94.

AEthiopia, India &c. written on doors in Prisons - 106.

Aikin, Mr. his Thoughts on Hospitals referred to - 97.

Air, fresh, the necessity of in Prisons 12.

- malignity of in Gaols - 13.

Alarm bell - 223, 312, 327, 468.

Aldsworth, Mrs. her Legacy - 393.

Aliment for Debtors, difficulty in obtaining - 10.

Allnutt, Mr. his Legacy - 206.

Allowance to Prisoners, defects respecting - 11.

- quantity proposed - 61.

- Lists of should be hung up - 64.

- farmed, instances of - 211, 244, 295, 339, 360, 394, 471.

- to Felons paid only monthly - 423.

- none to Felons - 253.

Amsterdam - 124.

Anglesey - 461.

Antwerp, allowance at - 134.

Appleby County Gaol - 433.

- within reach of floods - 41.

- Bridewell - 434.

Apprentices, faulty, rooms for - 186, 193, 238.

Arundel, Lord, Proprietor - 385.

Assizes, held too seldom in some places - 30.

- where no Prison - 229, 234, 388.

Axminster, Gaol-Distemper brought there - 18.

Aylesbury County Gaol - 241.

- Bridewell - 242.

B.

Bacon, Lord, his opinion of the Gaol-Distemper - 18.

Bailiffs, disorders arising from their keeping public houses - 10.

- extortion of - ibid.

- Keepers of Prisons - 189, 227, 408, 409, 452.

Bala, Great Sessions there - 463.

Bankrupts and Insolvents, severe law against - 98.

Bark and Cordials prescribed to Prisoners - 138, 244.

Barking Bridewell - 221.

Barrack-beds, what - 223.

Basford - 294.

Basil - 104.

Basingstoke - 339.

Bastile - 93.

Bath City Gaol - 394.

Baths, necessary in a Gaol - 45.

Batley - 413.

Beaufort, D. of, cloaths Prisoners - 340.

Beaumaris - 461.

Beccaria, Marquis of, his opinion of confinement before trial - 29.

- on speedy punishment - 30.

- on prevention of crimes - 74.

Beccles Bridewell - 266.

Bedding, want of, in Prisons - 15.

- and straw, instances where none in Prisons - 171, 175, 183, 186, 193, 209, 213, 214, 215, 233, 236, 238, 240, 253, 274, 286, 294, 300, 304, 309, 312, 316, 320, 329, 349, 357, 365, 369, 392, 395, 402, 403, 412, 434, 444, 449, 470, 472.

Bedfordshire - 243.

Bedford County Gaol - ibid.

- Bridewell - 244.

Benedictines, their Prison - 139.

Berkeley - 347.

- Lord, Proprietor - 349.

Berkhamsted Bridewell - 214.

Berkshire - 311.

Bern - 100.

Berwick - 429.

Beverley Bridewell - 403.

- Hall-Garth - ibid.

- Town Gaol - ibid.

Bicetre - 91.

Bien venu on admission to a Prison 112.

Birmingham Town Gaol - 274.

Black Assize at Oxford - 17.

Black-Fryars Bridewell - 178.

Blacket, Sir Walter, his benefaction - 421.

Bodmin Bridewell - 383.

- Sheriff's Ward - 384.

Borough Compter - 208.

Bowes, Mr. his charity - 401.

Bread, short weight of - 11.

- account, should be kept exact - 61.

- Inspector of - 398.

- and water, Diet, designed as a punishment - 115.

- Debtors living a long time upon - 367, 417.

Breconshire - 471.

Brecon County Gaol - ibid.

- Bridewell - 472.

- Town Gaol - ibid.

Bremen - 117.

Breton, Abbe, Founder of a Charity for supplying Prisoners with linen - 83.

Bridewells, defects and proposed improvements in - 68.

- derivation of the word - 178.

Bridges, William, his legacy 333, 336.

Bridgewater - 395.

Bristol Newgate - 391.

- Bridewell - 393.

Brome, Mr. Chaplain, commended - 264.

Broughton, Valentine, his legacy 445.

Bruges - 137.

Brussels - 135.

Buckinghamshire - 241.

Burlington, Earl of, his charity - 401.

Bury Gaol - 267.

— Bridewell - 268.

Butler, Bp. quoted - 43.

C.

Calcutta, fatal for want of air - 13.

Calvert's brewhouse, charity from - 167, 172, 176.

Cambridgeshire - 248.

Cambridge Castle - ibid.

- County Bridewell 250.

- Town Gaol - ibid.

- Bridewell - 251.

Canterbury Bridewell - 223.

- City Gaol - 226.

Cardiff County Gaol - 473.

Cardiganshire - 464.

Cardigan County Gaol - ibid.

Carlisle County Gaol - 430.

- City - 432.

Carmarthenshire - 467.

Carmarthen Castle - ibid.

- Borough Gaol - 469.

Carnarvonshire - 462.

Carnarvon County Gaol - ibid.

Caroline, Princess, her charity - 176.

Carr, William, committed from Ecclesiastical Court - 413.

Cassel, Church there with seats for Criminals - 112.

Cattle, Act in Ireland against keeping in Prisons - 60.

Certificate from Parish for Debtor's County allowance - 297, 396.

Chamber rents and furniture to be fixed - 57.

- of French Prisons - 85.

Chandos, Duke of, his charity - 356, 357.

Chapel, necessary in a Gaol - 48.

- improper time for service in - 55.

Chaplain, his Character and Duty - 54.

- discharged - 246.

- Salary reduced - 383.

Charity box, broke open, method to prevent it - 372.

Charity service in France - 84.

Chelmsford County Gaol - 216.

- Bridewell - 219.

Cheney Court, for the Soke - 350.

Cheshire - 442.

Chester Castle - ibid.

- City Gaol - 448.

- Bridewell - 451.

Chesterfield Bridewell - 285.

- Gaol - 286.

Chichester City Gaol - 231.

Children, profligate, sent to Prison at their parents request - 106, 123.

Cholmondeley, Lord, Proprietor - 452.

Cinque Ports - 227.

Cirencester - 348.

Circuit, Home - 211.

- Norfolk - 241.

- Midland - 269.

- Oxford - 311.

- Western - 353.

- Northern - 396.

- Chester - 442.

- North Wales - 461.

- Carmarthen - 464.

- South Wales - 470.

Clare Bridewell - 266.

Clauses of Act against Spirituous Liquors, to be hung up - 64.

- instances where not hung up - 172, 220, 221, 226, 238, 242, 244, 246, 253, 261, 262, 266, 267, 268, 274, 275, 281, 312, 322, 329, 336, 347, 349, 357, 364, 367, 383, 390, 392, 394, 395, 422, 426, 429, 431, 441, 462, 463, 466, 468, 470, 472.

Clauses of Act that Prisoners may send out for necessaries - 350, 399.

Cleanliness, its benefits - 58.

Clerkenwell Bridewell - 185.

Clerks of Assize, Prisoners detained for their Fees - 31.

- their new demand for Certificate - ibid.

- charge made by one, on a pardoned Transport - 289.

Clerks of the Peace, Prisoners detained for their Fees - 31.

- Fees demanded by some of them - ibid.

- their demand on Sailors fined a shilling - 372.

Cloaths, tainted by foul air, how to be purified - 59.

— for Prisoners to be tried in - 270, 289, 398.

- to be worn in Gaol - 312.

Clubs in Prisons, an abuse - 51.

- one for Wine and Beer 159, 198.

Coals allowed - 244, 254, 282, 326, 422.

Cockermouth - 432.

Colchester Bridewell - 219.

- Town Gaol - 220.

Collar, iron, on Galley slaves - 100.

Collection for Town Prisoners - 293.

- through the County, annual - 277, 283, 288.

Colleges, at Oxford, charitable - 317.

- Winchester, donation - 354.

Collings, Abel, his charity - 291.

Collyer, James, Esq. his complaint to the King of a bad Gaol - 253.

Commissaire de la Prison in France - 90.

Common-side Debtors, should have allowance - 58.

Conciergerie at Paris - 82.

- late fire there - 86.

Condemned Prisoners, liberal allowance to, abroad - 102, 107.

- not left alone - 125.

Condemned Prisoners, sent to a separate Prison in France - 81.

- Cells for in Newgate - 132.

Contempts, Prisoners so called - 344.

Conveyance to Assize at Keeper's Expense - 264, 454, 457.

- to Quarter Sessions ditto - 285, 300.

Conway, Great Sessions at - 462.

Cook, Capt. notes the effect of cleanliness on the behaviour of his ship's crew - 59.

Copper and Bath - 45.

Cornwall - 381.

- Duke of, Proprietor - 386.

Court military of Archbp. of York - 408.

Court of Conscience Debtors, confined with Criminals 187, 194.

- cleared at different periods - 187, 394.

- sent to Bridewell - 187, 194.

Coventry City Gaol - 273.

- Bridewell - 274.

Cowbridge - 473.

- Great Sessions there 474.

Craster, John, a late Gaoler, commended - 422.

Crib bedsteads - 71, 264.

Crowded rooms, bad effects of - 13, 14.

Crown Debtors, not cleared by Insolvent Acts - 11.

Croydon, Assize there, no Prison - 234.

Cumberland - 430.

Cutaneous Distemper in a Prison 260.

D.

Dagge, Abel, a Gaoler, commended - 49.

Dartford Bridewell - 226.

Daventry Town Gaol - 309.

Davers, Sir Charles, Proprietor - 267.

Dean and Chapter, Proprietors - 409.

- of Borough St. Peter, their Prison - 310.

- of York, Proprietor - 407.

Debtors, why not permitted to work - 9.

- few have their Groats - 10.

- to be separate from Felons by Act Charles II. - 46.

- few in Foreign Countries, the reason why - 88, 117, 120.

- French, how cleared by Parliament - 90.

- allowed as Felons 151, 170, 174, 216, 232, 242, 254, 257, 276, 280, 282, 306, 326, 435, 442, 453.

- confined with Felons 194, 208, 359.

- work in the Crown and Shire Halls - 436.

- refusing to submit to Gaoler's commands - 454.

Delays of trial in France, corrected by Parliament - 89.

Delft - 132.

Denbighshire - 456.

Derbyshire - 282.

Derby County Gaol - ibid.

- Town Gaol - 285.

Derby, John, his legacy - 367.

- Lord, Proprietor - 451.

Devizes - 364.

Devonshire - 371.

- Duke of, Proprietor - 409.

Discipline, gentle in Bridewells - 72.

- exact in French Gaols - 86.

Dispensary, General, their charity - 175.

Dolgelly - 463.

Dol Huys at Amsterdam - 128.

Donations, Lists of, wanting - 63.

Doncaster - 410.

Dorchester County Gaol - 366.

Dorsetshire - ibid.

Dover Castle - 227.

- Town Gaol - ibid.

Drunkenness, how punished in a Sheriff's Officer - 130.

Dublin Gaoler non-resident - 53.

Dungeons, daily visited in France 87.

- French, horrid - 87, 91, 95.

- in no new Prisons abroad - 106.

- great numbers confined in one - 261.

- octagonal, very deep 270.

- for Debtors - 277.

- deep, circular, aired by Hand Ventilator - 322.

- in a new Bridewell 451.

Dungeons, other instances of in Prisons - 211, 213, 214, 243, 246, 255, 258, 267, 273, 274, 281, 283, 288, 293, 296, 303, 309, 312, 314, 316, 319, 327, 331, 334, 354, 371, 382, 392, 405, 407, 408, 417, 426, 436, 440, 443, 449, 454, 472.

Dunghills &c. to be removed - 60.

Duntze, Dr. and his Friend catch the Gaol-Distemper in London - 118.

Durham - 416.

- County Gaol - ibid.

- Bridewell - 420.

- Bishop of, Proprietor - 417.

Dutch and English money compared - 132.

E.

Ecclesiastical Court Debtors, no bail for - 11.

- Warrant, part of the form - 413.

Edmunston, William, his legacy - 438, 439.

Edward VI. his grant to Lord Wentworth - 189.

Ely Gaol - 252.

— Bishop of, Proprietor - ibid.

— Bridewell - 253.

Employment, none in Bridewells - 194, 213, 230, 236, 272, 274, 279, 285, 293, 300, 319, 329, 338, 347, 348, 357, 359, 369, 383, 390, 394, 402, 403, 420, 451.

Essex - 216.

Etty, Mr. Lessee, lets - 316.

Exchequer Debtors, no bail for - 11.

- one ten years in Gaol - 474.

- Writs, part of the form of - 345.

- suspicions concerning - ibid.

Executions, few in Holland - 120.

- solemnity of abroad - ibid.

Exeter High Gaol - 371.

- Sheriff's Ward - 373.

- Bridewell - 376.

- City Gaol - 377.

- Lord, Proprietor - 310.

Explanation of Tables - 147.

Extra-work, Prisoners should have profit of - 73.

F.

Falmouth - 385.

Famished, almost, by neglect of Keeper, three Prisoners - 231.

- six Prisoners - 338.

Farming Provision, a cause of distress - 12.

Farming Provision, refused on detestion of abuse elsewhere - 468.

Farish, Mr, Chaplain, visited those sick of Gaol-Fever - 431.

Fastenings of curious contrivance - 440.

Fees, should be abolished - 57.

- Tables of should be hung up - 63.

- what are legal - 149.

- lately raised by Justices - 186.

- paid by County - 223, 426.

- abolished in Canterbury Bridewell - 225.

- a Table of dated 1603 - 239.

- detention for - 394.

- lowered by Judges - 265, 420.

- paid by Magistrates - 422.

— no Table of - 214, 227, 230, 231, 242, 253, 262, 267, 268, 275, 281, 283, 293, 301, 307, 309, 310, 312, 313, 314, 319, 320, 329, 342, 347, 349, 356, 357, 358, 363, 369, 370, 372, 380, 382, 383, 386, 390, 392, 394, 403, 409, 411, 431, 433, 439, 441, 452, 461, 462, 463, 464, 466, 468, 470, 472, 474.

Feet of Prisoners sore and black - 187.

Felons, their allowance scanty - 11.

- chained at night to bedsteads - 267.

- lately escaped - 312, 443.

- beg in the streets at Christmas - 361, 372.

- sick, relieved by Recorder - 436.

Fenelon, quotation from - 68.

Fenton, Mr. Recorder, his humanity - 436.

Fighting in Gaols to be punished - 62.

Fines, what Prisoners called so - 148.

- very miserable - 344, 468.

- no County allowance to - 344.

Fire, Sheriff's Officer to attend at - 130.

— escape from on the Leads - 171.

Fire-place necessary in a Bridewell - 71.

Firing given by Gaoler to Common-side Debtors - 373.

- and candles allowed in plenty - 422.

Fisherton-Anger Gaol - 361.

Fleet Prison - 156.

Flintshire - 453.

Flint County Gaol - ibid.

Fokingham Bridewell - 301.

Food, want of in Bridewells - 8.

- in County Gaols - 9.

- regulation of - 60.

Free ward, necessary for Common-side Debtors - 58.

- none - 241, 312, 316, 336, 409.

- a thorough-fare to other rooms - 296.

G.

Gabriel, John, his donation and legacy - 340.

Gainsborough Bridewell - 300.

Galley-slaves in France, commencement of their term - 81.

- in Bern, so called -100.

- Honnêtes and Deshonnettes - 109.

Gaming, a bad custom in Prisons - 26.

- prohibited - 445, 450.

Gaol, County, proposed plan of 42.

- professedly not for Punishment at Utrecht - 131.

Gaol-Committee, their Report of opinion of Judges against Ironing - 28.

- their disapprobation of Taps in a Prison - 51.

- their List of Charities to the Fleet - 159.

Gaol-Delivery, but once a year - 30, 258, 418, 422, 426, 431, 433.

- once in 3 years - 411.

Gaol-Distemper, Stowe's account of - 2.

- destroys more than are executed - 17.

- spreads beyond the Prison - ibid.

- unknown in some countries abroad - 100.

- none in Russia - ibid.

- instances of in English Gaols - 175, 192, 212, 217, 219, 223, 226, 230, 233, 242, 244, 270, 293, 322, 331, 340, 342, 344, 334, 357, 364, 365, 382, 383, 389, 390, 402, 431, 440, 444, 475.

Gaoler, non-resident, a grievance - 33.

- his duty - 49.

- French, hanged for suffering a Prisoner to starve - 86.

- strict regulations concerning - 129.

- of two Gaols thirty-three years - 297.

- four successions of in the same family - 307.

- forty-four years in office, signs Rules and Orders, and requires Garnish - 367.

- by Patent from Bishop - 416.

- paid by Hereditary Sheriff - 433.

Garnish, explained - 23.

- forbidden in France - 83.

- a paper hung up demanding it - 190, 217, 285.

- forbidden by Justices - 332.

- required by a Gaoler - 367.

— required in an old Table of Fees - 408.

Garnish room - 264.

Gate-house, Westminster - 195.

Geneva - 97.

Gerrard, Sir Thomas, his charity - 438.

Ghent - 138.

Gilpin, Bernard, preaches in Prisons - 54.

Glamorganshire - 473.

Glasgow, Gaoler there ordered to see every room daily - 33.

- politeness of the Magistrates - ibid.

Glass windows, improper in Gaols - 44.

Gloucestershire - 343.

Gloucester Castle - ibid.

- City Gaol - 350.

Godolphin, Earl of, Proprietor - 386.

Gosport - 357.

Gould, Judge, fines a Gaoler for detaining acquitted Prisoners - 32.

Grand Châtelet at Paris - 82.

Grate in floors - 45.

Groats, Debtors - 10, 62.

Groningen - 130.

Guildford Bridewell - 240.

Gwynn, Eleanor, her charity 209, 234.

H.

Hague - 128.

Halifax - 415.

Hallamshire - 412.

Haller, Dr. his opinion of our Gaol-Fever - 103.

Halsted Bridewell - 221.

Hamburgh - 115.

Hammocks hung to the ceiling - 186.

Hampshire - 353.

Hanau - 105.

Hanover - 114.

Hanway, Mr. on separate confinement - 43.

Harle, Thomas, Gaoler, commended - 422.

Hasledine, Thomas, his charities - 297.

Haslar Hospital, Gaol-Fever there - 19.

Haverford West County Gaol - 465.

- Town Gaol 466.

Haulton Castle - 452.

Hayes, Thomas, Prisoner from Ecclesiastical Court - 388.

Herefordshire - 335.

Hereford County Gaol - ibid.

- Bridewell - 338.

- City Gaol - ibid.

Herris, Elizabeth, her charity - 217.

Hertfordshire - 211.

Hertford County Gaol - ibid.

- Bridewell - 213.

Heydon, John, his legacy - 393.

Hinkley Bridewell - 279.

Hitchin Bridewell - 213.

Hobson, Thomas, his charity - 251.

Hodgesion, Dr. his charity - 401.

Holderness, Earl of, Bodar - 227.

- Proprietor - 408.

Hopital General near Paris - 92.

Horde, Thomas, his charity not fully paid - 316.

Horsham, Felons there near escaping - 42.

- Gaol - 228.

- Bridewell - 230.

Huish, George, Town Clerk, signs Table of Fees - 359.

Hull, murderer there cleared by delay of trial - 31.

- Gaol - 411.

- Bridewell - ibid.

Huntingdonshire - 245.

Huntingdon Gaol and Bridewell ibid.

Hussey, Rebecca, her charity - 295, 297.

Hutchinson, ———— Esq. his charity lost - 291.

I.

Janitor appointed by Constable appoints a deputy - 314.

Idiots and Lunatics in Gaols - 16, 412, 436.

Idleness, ill effects of in Prisons - 20.

- not permitted in Dutch Houses of Correction - 123.

- lamented by a Keeper 347.

Idler, quotation from - 24.

Jews, excused from working on their Sabbath - 114.

- ward, Poultry Compter - 171.

Ill language punished in Sheriff's Officers - 130.

Implements and Materials required in Bridewells by Act of Parliament - 70.

Infirmaries, necessary in Gaols - 45.

- in French Gaols how situated - 82.

Infirmary, one room, inconvenience of it - 398,

Influenza prevailing, neglected by Surgeon - 449.

Inspectors necessary - 66.

- at Mentz - 109.

Instruction, religious, given in Dutch Houses of Correction - 122. 

John of Gaunt's grant from Edward III. - 409.

Ipswich Gaol - 263.

- Bridewell - 265.

Ireland, no Tap in Gaols there - 52.

Irish Acts concerning Prisons - 14, 44, 52, 60, 62, 70.

Irons, used by some Gaolers from avarice - 27.

- not used in French Gaols - 80.

- used at Hamburgh - 115.

- on French Prisoners - 134.

- used in Bridewells - 260, 267, 314, 329.

- on a woman in Bridewell - 267.

- on women disused - 270.

- ordered to be taken off for a weekly payment - 299.

Justice, speedy, good effects of - 99.

Justices, bound to inspect Bridewells - 66.

- fineable if a Bridewell with a Court-yard be not provided - 70.

Justitia, the Convicts on board - 73.

Ivelchester County Gaol - 387.

K.

Keeper, signs Table of Fees - 190, 244, 246, 437.

- above forty years - 336.

Keeper's Freehold, a Bridewell - 349, 358, 432.

- 's Shop in a Bridewell - 348.

Kempe, Frances, her charity lost - 255.

Kendal County Bridewell - 434.

- Town Gaol - ibid.

Kent - 222.

Kidcots, Gaol so called - 404.

King, Proprietor - 294, 296, 314, 443.

- 's Bounty offered to Cornwall - 382.

- 's Evidence should be confined separate - 44.

King, Lord Chancellor, his declaration against severity - 28.

King's Bench Prison - 196.

- allowance to from Lincoln Castle - 297.

Kingston Bridewell - 237.

- Town Gaol - 239.

Kingston upon Hull (see Hull).

Knaresborough Honour and Forest - 409.

- Town Debtors - 410.

- Town Gaol - ibid.

Knights, Esquires, Gentlemen, Yeomen, different rates of board and lodging - 398, 419.

L.

Ladbroke, Sir Robert, letter to him quoted - 13.

Lancashire - 435.

Lancaster Castle - 435.

Land-tax paid by Keeper - 295.

Langton, Mrs. her charity - 438.

Latham, Peter, his charity - 438.

Launceston - 381.

Lausanne - 99.

Lavenham Bridewell - 266.

Lawford's-gate, Bristol - 346.

Laws made by Prisoners - 164.

Lawson, Mrs. her charity - 401.

Leeds (Yorkshire) - 411.

— Duke of, Proprietor - 413.

Legacies, lists of necessary - 63.

- care of required by the Act 32d George II. - ibid.

- care of at Bruges - 138.

- antient table of - 379.

- lost - 234, 255, 291, 297, 405, 418.

- no memorial of - 249, 264, 267, 270, 297, 336, 340, 351, 362, 367, 383, 393, 405, 418.

Leicestershire - 276.

Leicester County Gaol - ibid.

- County Bridewell - 279.

- Borough Gaol - 280.

- Town Bridewell - 281.

Lewarden - 131.

Lewes Bridewell - 230.

Licences to sell Liquor, pernicious effects of in Gaols - 50.

Lincolnshire - 295.

Lincoln Castle - ibid.

Lincoln City Gaol - 303.

Lind, Dr. on spread of Gaol-Fever in the navy - 19.

Linen, charity of to Prisoners in Paris - 84.

- clean, weekly, to Prisoners abroad - 84, 113, 137, 141.

Litchfield - 329.

Litter, &c. a nuisance in Prisons - 60.

Liverpool - 440.

London - 151.

Lostwithiel - 386.

Ludgate, new - 166.

Ludlow - 334.

Lumley, Lady, her charity - 401.

Lunatic, in a Bridewell - 260, 412.

- many years in a Gaol - 436.

Lunenburg - 114.

Lynn Regis - 262.

Lyons, bad dungeons at - 95.

- excellent Hospital at - 96.

M.

Macclesfield Prison - 451.

- Bridewell - 452.

Magistrates, faulty in not inspecting Prisons - 67.

- inspect weekly at Ghent - 140.

Maidstone Gaol - 222.

- Bridewell - 225.

Maison de force, at Ghent - 140.

Malt ground in a Prison - 347.

Manchester - 439.

Manheim - 112.

Marlborough - 365.

Marshalsea - 205.

- allowance to from Lincoln Castle - 297.

Master of Workhouse, Keeper of a Bridewell - 279, 319, 441.

Matron at Blackfryars Bridewell - 179.

- Clerkenwell ditto - 186.

- to the sick - 255.

Mats to sleep on - 226, 277.

- on Bedsteads - 279.

Mechlin - 137.

Medicines, Cordial better than Sudorific in Gaol-Fever - 244.

Melton Mowbray Bridewell - 279.

Mentz - 107.

Merionethshire - 463.

Middlewich - 447.

Minister of Parish in Ireland to take care of Allowance - 62.

Mold Great Sessions, conveyance to at Gaoler's expense - 454.

Monmouthshire - 339.

Monmouth County Gaol - ibid.

Montague, Duke of, Constable - 314.

Montgomeryshire - 459.

Montgomery County Gaol - ibid.

- City Bridewell - 460.

Mops, Brooms, &c. allowed - 422.

Morals, vitiated in Prisons - 15.

Morpeth County Gaol - 425.

Morpeth County Bridewell - 428.

Mortality, Bill of at Amsterdam - 124.

Mounsey, Dr. found no Gaol-Fever in Russia - 100.

N.

Newark - 294.

Newcastle upon Tyne Newgate - 421.

- Bridewell - 424.

- small Gaol - ibid.

Newgate - 151.

Newport Bridewell (Essex) - 220.

- (Isle of Wight) - 358.

- Gaol (ditto) - ibid.

New Prison, Clerkenwell - 181.

Night charges - 181, 185.

Nimeguen - 131.

Norfolk - 254.

- Duke of, Proprietor - 412.

Norman, Francis, four years List of his Prisoners - 348.

Norney, John, his legacy - 445.

Northamptonshire - 308.

Northampton County Gaol - ibid.

- Town Gaol - 309.

Northumberland - 425.

Nottinghamshire - 287.

Nottingham County Gaol - ibid.

- Town Gaol - 292.

- Bridewell - 293.

Norwich Castle - 254.

- City Gaol - 257.

Norwich City Bridewell - 260.

Number of Prisoners in England and Wales - 33.

- 150 lately in a Town Gaol - 275.

- 236 sent to a Bridewell in six years - 301.

- 572 ditto in eight years and a half - 347.

- of Petty Offenders in three years - 230, 320, 376.

Nunnery, insane men and aged women maintained in one - 140.

O.

Oakham County Gaol - 306.

Oath, solemn form of - 102.

Odiam - 337.

Octagonal House of Correction - 140.

Officer a Keeper (see Sheriff's Officer).

Ouse Bridge Gaol - 404.

Oven, necessary in a Gaol - 45.

- room called so - 435.

Oxfordshire - 315.

Oxford Castle - ibid.

- City Gaol - 316.

P.

Padlocks on Bridewell Prisoners - 266.

Parliament, French, takes care of Prisons - 88.

Patroness to French Prisons - 84.

Peacock, Mr. his legacy, no memorial - 405.

Peat, the only allowance - 432.

Pelham, Charles Anderson, Esq. Proprietor, - 403.

Pemberton, John, his charity - 264.

Pembrokeshire - 465.

Pembroke, Lord, pays a legacy - 362.

Penryn - 386.

Penzance Town Gaol - 385.

- Prison for Penwth - ibid.

Perjury uncommon - 103.

Peterborough Gaol - 310.

- Bridewell - ibid.

Petty, Sir William, mentions Bill of Mortality in Amsterdam - 124.

Petty Offenders in Gaols, because Bridewells insecure - 69.

Petworth Bridewell - 230.

Peverel Court of Record - 294.

Physician for Newgate and the two Compters proposed - 57.

Pitt, Moses, his "Cry of the Oppressed” quoted - 277.

Plan of a County Gaol - 42.

Plymouth - 380.

Pontefract, Liberty of the Honour - 413.

Pool (Dorsetshire) Town Gaol - 370.

- Bridewell ibid.

- (Montgomeryshire) Great Sessions there, Conveyance at Gaoler's expense - 460.

Popham, Mr. his two Bills - 3.

Portland, Duke of, Proprietor - 286.

Portsmouth - 359.

Poultry Compter - 170.

Preacher, not in Orders - 190, 332.

Presteign - 470.

Preston - 439.

Pringle, Sir John, notes the spread of Gaol-Distemper - 19.

Prisoners, of different sorts, not separated - 16.

- weakened by confinement - 39.

- checked in sending out for liquor and other necessaries - 50.

- almost starved by Gaoler's farming allowance - 472.

- of war, liberal allowance to - 21.

- how treated by the French, last war - 22.

Prison, none where Assize - 234, 388.

- Quarter Session - 238.

Prisons, not for Punishment - 38.

Private Property of Gaols, bad - 34.

Profit of Work in Bridewells, to common stock - 73.

- to Keeper - 214, 238.

- to Prisoners - 215, 221.

- half to ditto - 256, 266, 313, 314, 334.

- three quarters to ditto - 301.

- for 3 years not 20 shillings a year - 230.

Proprietors of Gaols - 189, 214, 252, 267, 286, 294, 310, 314, 349, 356. 363, 371, 385, 386, 403, 407, 40S, 409, 412, 413, 415, 417, 433, 451, 452.

Protestants excused from Mass - 81.

Provinces, French, Prisons in - 94.

Public houses, not to be frequented by Sheriff's Officers - 130.

- one room of, a Prison - 359.

Pump, put down by Gaoler, how repaid - 351.

Q.

Quakers room - 436.

Quarrels, how to be decided - 63.

Quarter Sessions, crowded with Prisoners - 238.

- where no Prison - ibid.

Question, (see Torture).

R.

Radnorshire - 470.

Raikes, Mr. relieves distressed Fines - 344.

Rasp-house at Amsterdam - 125.

Reading County Gaol - 311.

- Bridewell - 313.

- Town Gaol - ibid.

Reed, Hester, her legacy - 379.

Rent paid by Keeper - 348.

Rent paid by Keeper and refunded - 172, 175.

Richmond (Yorkshire) - 408.

- Duke of, active in building a new Gaol - 229.

- doubles allowance at a Bridewell - 231.

Rigby, Abigail, her legacy - 438.

- Henrietta, ditto - ibid.

Rippon - 408.

- Liberty - 409.

Rivers, German Prisons built near - 105.

Rochester City Gaol - 227.

Rotheram, Dr. Physician, commended - 422.

Rothwell - 413.

Rotterdam - 133.

- Pest-house there - ibid.

Rouquet, Rev. Mr. commended - 392.

Rules, should be hung up - 65.

- in French Prisons, how made known - 85.

- hung at every door in a Prison - 115.

- good ones - ibid.

- or Liberty of a Prison - 156, 196, 386, 422, 468, 469.

Rutlandshire - 306.

Ruthin County Gaol - 456.

Ryegate, no Prison, yet Quarter Session there - 238.

S.

St. Alban's Borough Gaol - 214.

- Liberty Gaol - ibid.

St. Alban's Bridewell - 215.

St. Briavel's Gaol - 349.

St. Catharine's Prison - 191.

St. Cross's Hospital, Dole of Bread - 354.

St. George's Fields Bridewell - 236.

St. Peter's Gaol, York - 407.

Salary raised for abolished fees - 225.

- receipts given for more than received - 349.

Salisbury County Gaol - 360.

- City Gaol - 363.

- Bishop of, Proprietor - ibid.

- Lord, Proprietor - 214.

Savil, Sir George, his charity - 401.

Savoy - 192.

Scarsdale Hundred - 286.

Scorbut, a disease in French Prisons - 83.

Scotch Prisoners, hard condition of at Carlisle - 432.

Seldon, Laurence, and Wife, their legacies - 379.

Separation of men and women necessary - 44.

- of Debtors and Felons necessary - 46.

Sewer, want of in Gaols - 14.

- uncovered through a Gaol - 410.

Sheffield, for Hallamshire - 412.

- Town Gaol - ibid.

Shepton Mallet - 390.

Sherborn - 269.

Sheriff of Town, Keeper - 469.

Sheriff's Officer, should not be Gaoler - 53.

Sheriffs Officer, Keeper - 236, 253, 264, 357, 390, 394, 405, 458.

Sherwin, John Esq. his charity - 290.

Shew, part of a Prison so called - 379.

Shrewsbury County Gaol - 330.

- Bridewell - 334.

Shropshire - ibid.

Sick Prisoners, care of at Bruges - 137.

- irons taken off from - 223.

- neglected by Surgeon - 264, 449.

- 7s. a week allowed to Gaoler for their diet - 288.

- 6d. a day allowed them - 320.

- proper diet allowed them - 331.

- in Bridewells, an Act for their relief - 9.

- said not to be included in late Act - 369.

Situation proper for a Prison - 40.

- a good one rejected - 273.

Skeleton with chains, found - 317.

Small-Pox, fatal in Gaols - 267, 277, 316.

Smith, Mr. his legacy - 362.

Soke, Liberty, its extent - 310.

- Gaol for - ibid.

Solitude beneficial in Prisons - 43.

Solitary cells, their effect on malefactors - 152.

Solothurn - 103.

Somersetshire - 387.

Southampton Bar-gate - 358.

Southampton Gaol - 358.

- Bridewell - 359.

Southwark, Surry Gaol - 232.

Southwell Bridewell - 293.

Spalding Bridewell - 301.

Spectator, Quotation from - 59.

Spin-house at Amsterdam - 127.

Spirituous Liquors, fine for not hanging up Clauses against 64.

- instances of Clauses against not hung up, (see Clauses).

- fine on Gaolers who sell them - ibid.

- on any who bring them - ibid.

Stable should be made a Day-room 258, 361, 388.

Staffordshire - 326.

Stafford County Gaol - ibid.

- Bridewell - 329.

Stamford - 301.

Star-chamber Prisoners, whither sent - 156.

State House, so called, in King's Bench Prison - 197.

Stepney Manor, its extent - 189.

Stove to every room in a Prison - 99.

Strasburg, Debtors aliment there - 107.

Straw, want of in Prisons - 13.

- and bedding, (see Bedding).

- paid for per load by County - 255.

- ordered by Matron - ibid.

- plenty because not farmed - 327.

- a legacy for it - 401.

Stream of water, beneficial in Gaols - 41.

Sudbury - 268.

Suffolk - 263.

Sunday dinner, an encouragement - 61.

- no visitors admitted on - 101.

- allowance on, to prevent working - 251.

Surgeon, his duty - 56.

- excused from attending Gaol-Fever in Dungeons 372.

Surry - 232.

Sussex - 228.

Swaffham Bridewell - 260.

T.

Tap, should not be held by Gaoler or Turnkey - 50.

- not held by Gaolers - 52.

Tapster holds rooms which he lets to Prisoners - 157.

Tarras floors - 283, 296.

Task, weekly, of Weavers - 143.

Taunton County Bridewell - 389.

- fatal Assize there - 18.

Taylor, Elizabeth, her legacy lost - 405.

Thame Bridewell - 319.

Thanet, Earl of, Hereditary Sheriff - 433.

Thetford - 261.

Thirsk - 402.

Thomson quoted in praise of Gaol-Committee - 28.

Thornhill, Mrs. her charity - 401.

Thynne, Thomas, Esq. his legacy - 362.

Tissot, Dr. his opinion of our Gaol-Distemper - 99.

Toes, rotted off in Gaol - 39.

Torture, disused - 114.

- a vile engine for - 115.

Tothill-fields Bridewell - 193.

Tower Hamlets Gaol - 191.

Town-Clerk signs Table of Fees - 359.

Town-Hall used by Debtors - 214.

Transports, the Contractors Property - 148.

- numerous in the Savoy and occasioning disease 192.

- their Fees paid by the County - 223.

- have County bread, and King's allowance - 223, 288.

- from Quarter Sessions allowed by County, as from Assize by the King - 228, 331.

- not the King's allowance - 312, 416, 426, 431, 436, 444, 468.

- almost stifled - 380.

- chained to the floor for attempting escape - 417.

- ditto for suspicion - 426.

- kept long in Prison - ibid,

- cloathed by County - ibid.

Truro - 385.

Tub, inconvenient to bathe in - 288.

Turfs, part of Keeper's pay - 412.

Turnkeys, their number should be increased - 29.

Turnkeys should not be Prisoners - 52.

- numerous in French Prisons - 79.

- have no Fees in France - 80.

Turnstiles and low gates at French Prisons - 79.

U.

Usk County Bridewell - 342.

Utrecht - 131.

V.

Vagrant Act 17th George II. quoted - 66.

Varying Towns where Assizes are held, a grievance - 29.

Ventilators, necessary in Gaols 45.

- in Gaols 178, 223, 244, 322, 331.

Vermin, a Prisoner disfigured by - 410.

Verses, over Debtors grate - 312.

Vilain, Count, his book - 144.

Vilforde, large Prison there - 135.

Visitants, keep Prisoners from Chapel - 55.

- a number at skittles - 159, 190.

- not admitted on Sunday 101.

W.

Wakefield - 402.

Wallingford - 314.

Walter, John Rolle, Esq. Proprietor - 371.

Warrington Bridewell - 441

Warwickshire - 269.

Warwick County Gaol - ibid.

- Bridewell - 272.

Washing Wards daily; not dangerous - 38.

Water, want of in Prisons - 12.

- three pints a day allowed - ibid.

- should be freely accessible - 59.

- paid for by Keeper - 186, 194.

- instances where not accessible 213, 214, 215, 220, 221, 225, 226, 227, 230, 251, 253, 261, 262, 266, 268, 279, 285, 286, 300, 301, 304, 309, 314, 319, 320, 329, 338, 346, 347, 348, 349, 358, 363, 365, 370, 377, 380, 382, 385, 394, 397, 403, 407, 409, 410, 411, 412, 426, 429, 439, 451, 458, 464, 466, 468, 469, 472, 475.

- none but in a flood - 405.

Weights, leaden, fastened to refractory Prisoners - 451.

Well, grand one in a French Prison - 92.

Wells, Assize, no Prison - 388.

Westmorland - 433.

Weymouth, Lord, pays a legacy - 362.

White, Sir Thomas, his legacy - 336.

- Alderman of York, his charity - 401.

Whitechapel Prison - 189.

Whitehaven Town Gaol - 432.

White Lion Prison, an ancient name - 234.

Whitewashing &c. before late Act - 392.

- neglected - 171, 186, 206.

Wickedness in Prisons, and spread from them - 20.

Wild beasts drawing a waggon, bas relief of - 108, 123.

Williamson, Sir Hedworth, perpetual Sheriff by Bishop's Patent - 417.

Wiltshire - 360.

Winchester County Gaol - 353.

- College allowance - 354.

- Prison for Debtors - 556.

- Bishop of, Proprietor - ibid.

- Bridewell - ibid.

Winchcomb - 349.

Windows, high ones proper - 183.

- Gaoler's, looking to Felons court - 220, 283, 474.

Window-tax, one cause of close rooms - 14.

- paid by Keepers 175, 186, 189, 194, 209, 322, 325, 361, 384, 386.

Windsor Castle - 314.

- Town Gaol - ibid.

Wisbeach Bridewell - 253.

Witney Bridewell - 319.

Wives and children in Prisons 33.

- in no German ones - 118.

Wives and children in no Dutch Prisons - 121.

- in the Fleet - 160.

- in the King's Bench - 198.

Wolverhampton Bridewell - 329.

Women-felons should be separate from Men - 44.

- separated from Men in French Prisons - 82.

- keep Foreign Prisons clean - 108.

- modest, complain of bad companions - 206.

- separated from Men in Bridewell - 173, 183, 230, 236, 237.

- many, yet Prison dirty - 376.

- debtors, in separate rooms - 413.

- not separated from Men though many rooms 431.

Woodbridge Bridewell - 266.

Wooden bars, obstruct air - 223.

Wood-street Compter - 174.

Woollen Manufacture in Dutch Houses of Correction - 121.

- Manufacturer Keeper of Bridewell - 376, 428.

Worcestershire - 321.

Worcester Castle - ibid.

- Bridewell - 323.

- City Gaol - 324.

Work in Bridewells necessary - 70.

- constant, yet Prison not maintained by it - 113, 123.

Work in a Bridewell - 179, 226, 428, 447.

Work-house, commended - 279, 434.

- part of one a Town Gaol - 432.

- &c. farmed - 319.

Work-rooms, two for men in a Bridewell - 220.

- 1s. a week for use of 267.

Workshop in Gaols - 47,

Worsted Manufacture at Rotterdam 133,

Wrexham County Bridewell - 458.

- Great Sessions, Conveyance to at Gaoler's expense - 457.

Wymundham Bridewell - 260.

Y.

Yarmouth Gaol - 261.

- Bridewell - 262

Yorkshire - 396.

York Castle - ibid.

- City Gaol - 404.

- - Bridewell - 407.

- - St. Peter's Gaol - Ibid.

- Archbishop of, Prison for his Manors in Nottinghamshire - 293.

- - Proprietor - 408.

Yorke, Sir Joseph, his polite assistance - 128.

Z.

Zell - 128

THE END.

DIRECTIONS to the BOOK-BINDER.

The Plates are to be inserted as follows:

General Plan of a County Gaol, between Pages 48 and 49.

Plan of La Maison de Force, Ghent, - 140 and 141.

Plan of Newgate, - 152 and 153.

Tab. III. being continued over from P. 480 to 481, Care is to be taken that the Lines coincide.

