SECOND REPORT

of the

SUB-COMMITTEE

Respecting

PRISONS

AND

HOUSES OF CORRECTION.

1791

SECOND REPORT

OF THE

SUB-COMMITTEE

Respecting the

IMPROVEMENTS

which

HAVE BEEN LATELY MADE

in the

PRISONS

and

HOUSES OF CORRECTION

in

ENGLAND and WALES.

LONDON:

Printed by George Stafford,

---

ciAM-coutT, utrr-iTtur.

USCCXCl.

Aff-tj lh»ft, A‘n! btl, 1791

AT a Meeting of the General Committee of the Society for giving KH’ecfl to his Majesty's Proclamation, &c.

A Second Report of the Sub-Committee respecting Prisons and 1 loufes of Correction, v. as read. Refol veil that the Report be printed, and that the Sub-Committee be desired to make enquiry relpcuing the Rate of the Prisons in those counties, in England and Wales, concerning which, it is Rated in the Report, that no information has been received by the Society.

REPORT, C?f.

Marti ig, 1791.

THE Sub-Committee having examined the letters and other papers relating to Prisons and Houses of Correction, which have been received (incc the lad publication of the Society, report as follows:

By a letter from Mr. Sharp, it appears that the l’rifon in Dover Castle is by no means fit for the purpose for which it is intended. This letter has, by the direction of the Committee, been communicated to the Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports, who has been so good as to say, that he will readily cooperate with the Society, in every thing which IS n.ay

[ 6 ]

mav tend to remove the grievances complained of.

P.y a letter from the late Orpinv O.ovcrnnr of the I fie ol'Man, it appears, that in that iflaml there is but one 1‘rifon, which coniill* <»f only two rooms, one of which is a Dungeon for Felons, very dark, wet, and unuhnlfomc, but, happily, very little used: the other room is sixteen feet by twelve, and nine or ten fur high. In this room arc confined all other prisoners of all descriptions, debtors as well as criminals, women as well as men. This letter is carnefiiy recommended to the attention of the General Committee.

Hy a paper communicated by one of the Members of the Society, it appears, that in Oxfordfliirc the Magistrates continue to he succeschil, both in laving money for rite county, and in the still more important object of reforming the morals of the pnloncn.

The following improvements arc mentioned in letters received by the Secretary.

In Dc m am, the County Gaol has been repaired and enlarged.

In

[ 7 ]

In Northamptonsiiire, the Magistrates are employed in improving and enlarging the County Gaol, and in building a House of Correction on an improved plan.

In LncEsTiHsniRE.a new County Gaol is almost finished, in which a proper reparation will be made of the disterent chiles of prisoners.

In Buckixciiahsiiikf., Cells far fohtary imprisonmcni have been built in the County Gaol at Avlcllmry, and foinc other improvements have been made.

By a letter from one of the Members of the Society, the Sub-Committee are informed, that in Wiltshire fever.il improvements have been lately made in the County Gaol, and others are intended to be made, as cxpcdiiiously as the finances of the county will permit.

In Hampshire, a new County Gaol and County Bridewell,on improved plans, have been built, and the keepers alTcrr, that they have great reason to believe, the goed efi'eds produced

[ 8 ]

on the prisoners, will not be found inferior to the cxpctflations of the Magistrates.

In Sussex (one of the lirfl counties which set an example in the reform of prisons), the very bed effects continue to arise from the attention of the Magistrates. The County Gaol at Hordiam, and the liridewell at Pet-worth, arc exceedingly well regulated; the prisoners have separate cells; scarce any illness is known, and it is found by experience, that most of those persons who have been once confined in the House of Corretftion, take care not to render themselves liable to be sent there a second time. In that county only six prisoners were tried at the Summer assize. The Lent assize was a Maiden one.

In Kent, it has been recommended by the Grand Jury to the Magistrates at the Quarter Sessions, to make some alterations which arc much wanted in the County Gaol. It docs nor, however, appear, that any such alterations have as yet been undertaken.

It was mentioned in the lad Report, that the County Gaol in Surrey had been presented

[ 9 ]

by the Grand Jury at the Lent assize. In confcquence of this presentment, a bill has been brought into Parliament for building z new Gaol in that count}'.

In Essex, a new County Gaol was built a feu' years ago; the Bridewell is old and inconvenient, but it is intended to build a new one on an improved plan. At Colchester some new rooms have been lately added to the Bridewell.

In Suffolk, a new County Gaol is jull fmilhed at Ipswich. In this building every prisoner, debtor as well as felon, will have a separate cell, and every circumstance has been attended to, which can contribute to render the prison healthy and secure; and to promote industry and regularity among the prisoners. The Old Gaol at Ipswich, compared with the New one, affords a striking contraff, and an example of what an English Prison was, before the attention of the Public was called to this subject by Mr. Howard, and what an English Prison may be, when built on a proper plan, and conducted by active and attentive Magistrates.

[ 10 ]

The Bridewells in Suffolk have been much improved. Cells for solitary imprisonment have been provided at Beccles and at Wood-bridge, and the prisoners are properly employed during their confinement.

In the same letter it is mentioned as the result of pretty clofc infpcdion.that the liridc-\icll at Wynmndhain, in Norfolk, really deserves the character given of it by Mr. Howard. The only tided mentioned by him is now removed, the allowance of bread being two pounds a day, iidiead of two-pennyworth. The prisoners are kept entirely separate, and are conftamly at work. Those who arc employed in hie Ming hemp, are expected to earn 5s. a week; those who bunch it, 3s. Whatever they gain above iheic sums, is given them at their tlifeharge. Such as arc diligent, and behave well, arc indulged with a lamp till eight o’clock in the evening, when all lights arc put out. This enables them in winter to work three or four hours longer than they otherwise could do. Some prisoners in the week previous to the writing this account, had earned 1 os. The keeper mentioned the names of thirteen prisons, who had been 111

[ 11 ]

this liiidcwell, and who, to his knowledge, earned an honest livelihood by llic exercise of that trade which they had learnt during their confinement. The profits of the prtfoners labour continue to exceed the expence of maintaining the m. The Bridewells in Norfolk being all properly rcgukied, the attention of the Magi ft rates, is now employed on the County Gaol. A new one on an unproved plan is begun, in which separate cells, and other proper conveniences, will he provided.

At C.\ m n r i nc r., a new Gaol and new Bridewell, with cells for foluary confinement, have been lately built b) the city. It is said that the Magift rates of t!.c county have it also in contemplation, to provide a remedy for the defects which have been long complained of in the County Gaol, and County Bridewell. At Wilbcch the prison has lately been thoroughly repaired, and very much improved.

In lie k t/ vcDoxunur, n new Cr.ol and new Bridewell have been built, and although they arc not executed in the best manner, they are much fupenor to the old ones.

In

[ 12 ]

In Br.n.‘.s!iiRr, a County Bridewell was lately built at Reading, on a very good plan. What has been formctly mentioned at Wymondham, and several other plarcs, is here ronfirined, viz., that solitary imprisonment, independent of other good cllccls, has been the means of bringing many prisoners to make ror.sessions, by which several gangs of rogues have been discovcial, and dispersed. The Country Gaol at Reading is old, and not a good one, but it is kept clean, and great pains have been taken by the Magistrates to establish good regulations for the government of it.

It is observed in the ietter from which these observations arc taken, that no appearance of the gaol fever was found in any of the prisons which were viftted by the writer. In moll of

them the infirmaries were empty, and the gaolers all said, that they had never seen any contagious fevers of that kind since the new' prisons were built; unless, as one or two of them added, they were brought by prisoners lrotn Newgale.

From the preceding observations, and those formerly published, the Sub-Committee think, themselves warranted to alTcrt, that wherever

[ 13 ]

the attention of the Magistrates lm been exerted in providing proper Gaols and Houses of Correction, and in establishing good regulations for the management of them, their endeavours have been productive of fuchgood effects, as have fully answered the expectations of those who were most sanguine in their hopes of improvement.

The Sub-Committee arc happy to add, that in addition to the eight counties of York, Lin-caller, Norfolk, Suffolk, Oxford, Cloucester, SulTcx, and Cornwall, which were mentioned by Mr. Howard as having been particularly active in this reform, it appears from this, and their former Report, that new prisons have been lately built, arc now building, or intended immediately to be built, in the counties of Devon, Dorfei, Southampton, Berks, Surrey, Middlesex, KfTex, IlcrtlorJ, Bedford, Huntingdon, Lincoln, Lciccfler, Northampton, Warwick, Stafford, CluftiT, Salop, Hereford, Monmouth, and Carmanhen. Improvements, more or less complete, have been undertaken in the counties of Wilts, Worcester, Durham, Buckingham, and Cambridge. With respect to the remaining eight counties of

[ 14 ]

Somerset, Knit, Rutland, Derby, Nottingham, WcHmorland, Cumberland, and Northumberland, ihc Suh-Cor»mittcc have received no authentic information, and therefore recommend it to the General Committee, to make fume enquiry into the date of the I’ri-fons in those counties, anti whether the Pamphlets sent by the Society were diHributed to the Jullitcs at their Ouartcr Sessions.

No informarion has been obtained of the Rate of the Prisons in Wales, except (as mentioned in a former Report) that a new County Gaol, on a large and convenient plan, is now building at Carmarthen. An enquiry inro the Hate of the Wclfli Prisons, is therefore recommended to the General Committee.

Of the Prisons in the Metropolis, the Sub-Committee ha\ e received no accounts, except a

letter from Mr. Alderman Watson, mentioning some improvements intended to be made in Newgate: the Sub-Committee have therefore, as they did lad year, ddired one of their Yu ihbcis to make some enquiry into the date of those prisons, the result of which enquiry v.ill be laid before the General Committee at their ni.vt /meting.

POSTSCRIPT.

MaV 12, 1791.

SINCE the preceding Report was profaned to the Society, letters have been received from the Clerks of the Peace of the counties ot Northumberland, Derby, Nottingham, Kent, I lint, Pembroke, and Radnor.

From the firO of theft letters it appears,

that a new lloufc of Correction has been lately built at Hexham; and another is intended to be built in the parish of T) nemouth, in which cells for solitary imprisonmciU w ill be provided. Six cells for this purpnfe have also been added to the eounty Gaol, lincc the diilribution of the Pamphlets feni b) the Society.

( 18 )

In Derbyshire, a new and convenient Bridewell has been lately built at Tidcfwell; two others arc begun at Aflibourne, and Winckworth; and the old Iloufc of Correction at Chesterfield, has been repaired and enlarged. These improvements have been made fmcc the distribution of the Pamphlets.

In Nottinghamshire several alterations and improvements have been made in the county Gaol; and a new prison having been built for the town of Nottingham, the county prisoners arc less crowded than they used to be. The Iloufc of Correction at Southwell hasalfo been improved; and further alterations, both in it and in the county Gaol, arc now under the consideration of the magift rates.

In a letter from the Deputy-Clerk of the Peace for the county of Kent, it is mentioned, that the county is now much burthened with the expence of having a few years ago added a new wing to the old Gaol, in order to fepanite the debtors from the felons. No further alteration has for this reason been made in the police of this county.

( 19 )

In Pembrokcshire a new county Gaol was built at Havcrfordwcft, a short time before Mr. Howard's last publication. A county Gaol was also built at Flint about the same time.

In Radnorshire, the county Gaol at Preftcign has been well and fufTiciently improved, and was reported, by the Judges at the last assizes, to be in very good repair. A New House of Correction has also been provided by this county.

