REPORT

OF THE

SUB-COMMITTEE

RESPECTING

PRISONS

AND

HOUSES OF CORRECTION.

1790.

REPORT

OF THE

SUB-COMMITTEE

RESPECTING THE

IMPROVEMENTS WHICH HAVE BEEN LATELY MADE

IN THE

Prisons and Houses of Correction

IN

ENGLAND and WALES.

LONDON: PRINTED BY GEORGE STAFFORD,

Crane-Court, Fleet-Street.

M.DCC.XC,

REPORT, &c.

February, 20, 1790.

THE Sub-Committee having examined the letters, and other papers which relate to Prisons and Houses of Correction, and having endeavoured to procure as much information as possible, respecting the delivery of the pamphlets which were printed by the Society, report as follows:

That above four thousand pamphlets were sent to the Clerks of the Peace of the several counties in England and Wales, previous to the last Michaelmas Sessions, when they were requested to deliver them to the Justices: they were also desired to take the first opportunity of distributing them to the Grand Juries, which

[ 2 ]

the Sub-Committee hope will be done at the ensuing Assizes.

Any opinion that can in the mean time be formed, respecting the effect of the pamphlets, must be imperfect, as they have not yet been delivered to all the persons for whose use they were intended.

The Sub-Committee, nevertheless, beg leave to lay before the General Committee the following fasts, which have come to their knowledge on this subject.

The abuses in the Bridewell at Folkingham were corrected as soon as the pamphlet, sent by the Society, was received by the Magistrates, who have the direction of that Bridewell. This appears from a letter received by the Secretary, dated Folkingham, January 14, 1790.

In the county of Devon a new prison is going to be built, and the Gentlemen of that county are endeavouring, with the greatest industry and liberality, to regulate every thing relating to the gaols in the best manner.

[ 3 ]

At Plymouth, improvements are intended to be made in the offensive prison in that town. At Bath, a new prison was built a few years ago, and it is now very well regulated.

In Gloucestershire, a new prison, and four new houses of correction are nearly finished; and there is great reason to hope, that the liberality of the Gentlemen of that county, and the uncommon exertions of its Magistrates, will be productive of permanent advantage to the community.

In Warwickshire, the county gaol is described as being in such a condition, that the Sub-Committee think it right to lay that description at full length, before the General Committee, in order to give them some idea of the nature of those evils for which they are now endeavouring to provide a remedy.

[ 4 ]

Extract of a letter from Mr. Bowdler to the Secretary of the Society, instituted for giving effect to His Majesty's Proclamation, dated Warwick, December 5, 1789.

“THIS was the chief object of my journey. Let me entreat the Society, before they proceed with my letter, to read Mr. Howard’s account of this Prison, in the beginning of the Midland Circuit. Dreadful as that account is, it is not equal to the scene which I witnessed this day. Besides debtors, and females, there are eighty felons in the gaol. In the day-time, they are in an open court, if the weather is fine; but if it is cold or rainy, they have but one day-room, which is large enough to contain ten or twelve persons conveniently. Six men sleep in a room, seven feet two inches long, six feet wide, and six feet high, with no aperture but a grate, fifteen inches by thirteen, which admits (not the external air, but) the vapours of another room, seventeen feet by fifteen, and seven feet six inches high, where thirteen sleep. Five sleep in another cabin like the first, which“

[ 5 ]

"I described, but smaller. Fifteen sleep in another small room. I asked where the remaining forty-one lay, and was taken down a long flight of steps into an octagon dungeon, twenty-two feet in diameter, which has no aperture, but a hole with a grate at the top. All the men are chained, and made to lie on their side, to take up as little room as possible; but even in this way, and placed so close as not to be able to turn, I was assured that only thirty-five could lie on the floor: the remaining six must either lie on the others, or remain standing during the night. When I went into the dungeon this forenoon, I found one man lying in it sick, and unable to move; in other words, he appeared to be seized with the gaol distemper, or a fever very similar to it. The gaoler seems to be attentive and intelligent, but has too much work upon his hands. Let the Society reflect, that several of these men may be, and some probably are, innocent; and that if any of this description, or any penitent malefactor, is disposed to think seriously, he is obliged constantly to hear the blasphemous conversation of others of a different disposition.“

[ 6 ]

“Dreadful as this scene now is, there is reason to fear that it will become still worse; for three months will elapse before the next Assizes. New felons are continually brought in, and nothing is likely to diminish the number of the prisoners, unless the gaol fever should do it!"

The Sub-Committee have thought it right to insert in this place Mr. Howard’s account of this gaol. Vide Lazarettos, p. 158.

The felons were sadly crowded. Only one samll day-now for the men, and I saw thirty-two lie chained in a dungeon of twenty-two feet diameter, down thirty-one steps, two of whom were ill of a slow fever. There were three others in a room, very ill, and in irons. In two rooms, seven feet six, by six feet six, with apertures only in the doors, there lay fourteen women almost suffocated. None of the women were now in irons. No Infirmary. No Bath. The Act for preserving the Health of Prisoners not hung up. No Coals. Allowance, a three-pound loaf every other day: it was good bread, and full weight. Acquitted prisoners are kept in irons till the Judge leaves the town. Executions are at the gaoler's expence.

[ 7 ]

The prisoners receive yearly from a legacy, one pound ten shillings; the rent of a house in the town. Some of the felons complained of having been forced to pay four shillings and two-pence for garnish, or be stripped of their clothes. This is one of the bad effects of the admission of beer. The debtors pay for garnish a much larger sum. The gaoler s salary sixty founds in lieu of the tap.

Before the convicts went off, who lately were ordered to Plymouth, this dungeon was so crowded that some of the poor wretches were forced to stand up, and take a sort of miserable night-watch, while others slept. From the aperture of this dungeon, which is three feet three inches wide (as from the door and the two funnels of the dungeon of the gaol at Stafford), the steam of the prisoners breath comes out in winter, like the smoke of a chimney.

The Sub-Committee are happy that they are able to add, that a Bill has lately been brought into the House of Commons, to enlarge and improve this gaol.

At Stafford, the prison is in almost as bad a

[ 8 ]

condition as at Warwick; but the greatest attention has lately been paid to this subject, and a new gaol is now building on a plan which seems likely to answer every purpose that is desired. This appears from a letter of Mr. Bowdler’s, dated Sandon, December 7, 1789.

The Sub-Committee are also informed, that this branch of the police is now become the object of the serious attention of the Magistrates at Bristol, and at Birmingham. Application has been made to the Sub-Committee to send some of the pamphlets to Bristol, which they have accordingly done; and they have reason to expect that a Bill will shortly be brought into Parliament to erect a new prison in that city, agreeably to the plan proposed by Mr. Howard, and recommended by the Society. At Birmingham it is intended to build both a prison and house of correction, on an improved plan; and great pains have been lately taken to effect a complete reform in the police of that town.

At Worcester, the abuses, which have long existed in the prisons, are in a train of being

[ 9 ]

---

completely removed. This is mentioned in a fenr to the Society by one of the Magistrates. The writer* at the same time, re-i qutffts the alEftance of the Society towards luppre fling an iniquitous practice which is but too common in many parts of the king- dom—the practice of defrauding convids of the sum of two shillings and six-pence a week, which is allowed them by Government. The Sub-Committee, in consequence of this ajsu plication, desired one of their Members to wait on Lord Kenyon, to request the assistance of his Lordship, and the rest of the Judges, to put a stop to the grievance which is ;ro' properly complained of His Lordship was so good as to promise to speak to all the Judges, and to do every thing in his power to prevent the convids from being.any longer defrauded of the money which is intended for their support.

In Cambridgeshire several improvements have been undertaken since the receipt of the pamphlets, and a copy of the regulations established at the last Quarter Sessions has been lent to the Society.

In Hertfordshire a New Bridewell, on an

[ 10 ]

improved plan, has been ordered to be builtj-in consequence of the pamphlets. For this communication the Committee are indebted to Dr. Hamilton. At Bodmin the prison has been improved, and is now very well regulated.'

In Oxford shire the exertions of the Magistrates continue to be rewarded with the success to which they are so well entitled. It appears from a paper communicated by Mr. Willoughby, that with respect to the annual saving of the county money, and the far more important objett of reforming the morals of offenders, the good effects produced by the plans adopted in that county, continue to exceed the expeditions of those who were most sanguine in their hopes of improvement. Both the city and county gaols, as well as the Bridewell, are nearly finished.

Lastly, The Sub-Committee are informed by Mr. Blackburn, that new prisons are now building in the following places: Manchester, Liverpool, Ipswich, Monmouth, Preston, Dorchester and Lewes. Drawings are made for Hereford and Bedford. All these are under the

[ 11 ]

inspection of Mr. Blackburn. New prisons are also building at Chester, Shrewsbury, and Lincoln.

Upon the whole, the Sub-Committee are of opinion, that very great improvements have been lately made in this formerly neglected part of our National Police i but much still remains to be done. They are also of opinion, that no. time can be more proper for attempting to complete the reform of our prisons than the-present, as the attention of the Public appears to be in a considerable degree engaged by this object.

POSTSCRIPT.

April 19, 1790.

SINCE the foregoing Report was written, the Sub-Committee have been informed that a new county gaol is now building at Carmarthen, upon a large and convenient plan, with cells for solitary imprisonment. The writer of the letter from which this account is taken, regrets that the borough gaol continues in a condition which Hands very much in need of

[ 12 ]

improvement. The Sub-Committee are also informed, that at the last Assizes for the county of Surrey, the county gaol was presented by the Grand Jury as unfit for the purpose for which it was intended. It is ekpefted that a new gaol will soon be built on an improved plan. At the last Assize at Warwick, eleven days were employed in the gaol delivery. Eighty prisoners were tried; nineteen were capitally convicted, eight of whom were under twenty years of age. Nine were executed. The great want of reformation in this gaol, and the prospect of that reformation being effected by the attention of the Magistrates, have been already mentioned.

In addition to the account which was formerly given of the prison at Wymondham, the Sub-Committee are informed that the profits of the prisoners labour during the last year, as during the five preceding years, have exceeded the expence of their maintenance, and a balance has been obtained in favour of the county. They are also happy to add, that the discipline which is observed in that prison, continues to produce the belt effects, in improving the morals of those who are confined in it. Several convicts

[ 13 ]

who have been discharged, are now able to earn from eight to twelve shillings a week, by exercizing those employments which they learnt during their imprisonment.

The following Observatiom on the good Effects of Solitary Confinement, are taken from a Letter Witten by Sir Thomas Beevor, dated Wymondham, April 7, 1790.

u EVERY day’s experience tends to convince me of the great utility of this “ mode of punishment (/. e. a separate cell for ft each prisoner). Amongst its other benefits, “ one in particular, not perhaps immediately M obvious, has repeatedly occurred, of no small consequence, both as fully evincing the good " effect of Solitary Confinement on the minds “ of the prisoners, and as greatly conducing “ to the future security of the Public: I a mean the confefiions, which are thereby obtained from them, of the robberies which “ they have committed, together with the discovery of their accomplices. Their minds, “ tortured with guilt, and unrelieved by the ft avocations of society, seem to feel no ease f‘ but in discharging the load from off them;

[ 14 ]

,c an^.-tKc number of voluntary Confessions. ° which: have been made to me, from the house *{ at Wymondham, is really extraordinary, and “ have enabled the Magistrates of this county *f to break into, and disperse several desperate w gangs of villains.”.

The Sub-Committee beg leave to conclude this part of their Report with observing,. that the good effects of Mr. Howard’s labours do not appear to be confined to England. A Bill is now -before the House of Commons..for building a new prison, on an improved plan, in Edinburgh, where it was much wanted:-and the Sub-Committee are informed, that a reformation of the prisons and houses of correction in Ireland;is already begun; and is undertaken upon such apian, as gives the great-eft reason to hope, that it will be rendered complete in almost every part of that, kingdom,

REPORT

OF THE

SUB-COMMITTEE

XUriCTlNC Till

PRESENT STATE OF THE PRISONS,

AND

HOUSES OF CORRECTION,

IN

LONDON and WESTMINSTER.

REPORT, &c.

April 19, 1790.

IN the preceding Report no mention wai made of the Prisons in the Metropolis! Ohly one letter* having been received upon that ftlbjeft, the Sub-Committee desired one of their own body to visit rliofe prisons, and Write an account of their present condition. The following Letter contains the observations which were made during those visits.

April 18, 1790.

To the Secretary of the Society, “Sir,

“ IN consequence of the resolution of the Sub-Committee of the 9th of March, I have visited most of the prisons

A Letter from Mr. Alderman Clark, which haj lxcn recommended to the particular attention of the General Committee.

[ 18 ]

“in London and Westminsterj and beg tc you will lay before their next meeting the following account of the present state of of those prisons. In writing this account I have, for the most part, avoided mentioning those defers which have been already noticed by Mr. Howard. His lad: work upon this “ subject is in the hands of all the Members of the Society. I shall only add, that it will ef be a great satisfaction to me, if the Gentlemen who read this Letter, will have the goodness to read, at the same time, the observations of Mr. Howard on those prisons of which I have endeavoured to describe tf the present condition.”

[ 19 ]

KING’S BENCH.

March ij, 1790.

This prison is crowded and dirty. Some rules and orders are hung up in the room at the entrance, but they are not observed. There is a tap-room, coffee-room, &c. within the prison. No medical assistance. Mr. Howard’s description is in every respect applicable to the present date of the King’s Bench. New regulations are much wanted *.

BRIDEWELL.

March 15, 1790.

There are six cells allotted to apprentices, in which solitary imprisonment has been tried, and found to produce very good cffeds: nor-withstanding which, this practice has not been extended to the other prisoners. One boy, of whose contrition and resolution to amend his conduct, the keeper and task-master appeared

The Sub-Committee are informed, that since the beginning of the Present Term, several new regulations have been established by the Court of King’s Bench, to correct the abuses which have for some time prevailed rc-spefting the rula of this prison.

[ 20 ]

to be perfectly satisfied, was immediately rc-leased, by. the kindness of the Chamberlain, and taken home by his matter on a promise of good behaviour for the future. Another part of the prison is allotted to men. Both, the day-room and night-room are dirty, and not well supplied cither with light or air. They have not the appearance of having been white-washed for a considerable time. The ptifoners are allowed a pound of bread a day, and four times a week ten ounces of meat. The quantity of the former should be encreased, and the latter should be diminished. The prisoners are very properly employed in picking oakum and making ropes, and are under the inspection of a task-master, who appears to be attentive to his duty. The women’s prison is cleaner, and more airy than the men’s; but there is no proper reparation of those who are well disposed, from those who are incorrigible*.

The Sub-Committee are happy to be informed that several improvements will very soon be made in the prisons int his Hospital.

[ 21 ]

TOTHILL FIELDS BRIDEWELL.

March 19, 1790.

The situation of this prison is airy, but the buildings are old and ruinous. I was pleased to fee that great alterations have been made since I visited it last Spring with Mr. Howard. The adjoining prison, which belonged to the Dean and Chapter, is now united to the Bridewell, and allotted to the women, who are, of course, completely separated from the men. I was informed that the old part of die Bridewell is going to be repaired; but as this is not yet done, and as it appears that the Magnates are taking great pains to improve this prison, it would be improper to offer any observations concerning it, till these alterations, are carried into effect. I cannot however help, mentioning, that if this prison is intended to be used for any longer period than till the New Bridewell in the Cold-Bath Fields IhalL be finished, it seems in some measure to be regretted that any considerable sum should be expended on a building which is so old and ruinous; that it would perhaps be better, and in the end more ccconomical, to rebuild, than to repair it. In either case, I cannot help

[ 22 ]

expressing a hope that the spirit of improvement will be soon extended from Tothill Fields to the other prisons in the metropolis and its neighbourhood.

NEW PRISON, CLERKENWELL.

March 1790.

The keeper, Mr. Samuel Newport, appears to be very attentive to his duty, and to be well suited to his office. The different acts of Parliament, clauses against spirituous liquors, rules, and tables of fees, are hung up. A window has very properly been made in the keeper's house, which gives him an opportunity of inspecting the prisoners. Mr. Gibbs, a surgeon, has one hundred pounds a year for attending this prison and the adjoining Bridewell. The wards of the prison are waffied every morning, and are, in every respect, kept very clean. The men are separated from the women; the wards on the men’s fide are airy, and have oppofire windows. On the women’s fide they have not this advantage. An infirmary is also wanted for the women. There is a convenient fmiation for it, and it might be finished at a very small expence. Some alterations are also wanted in the men’s infirmary;

[ 23 ]

and the courts might be paved with flag stones, as they would be kept much cleaner than the present pavement. This prison appears well regulated, as far as depends on the keeper j but there are no cells, or any means of preventing an improper affociarion of prisoners.

CLERKENWELL BRIDEWELL.

Mahch Z4, 1790.

The first thing which struck me on my entrance, was a crowd of well-dressed persons near the gate j I next saw a small room, in which were eighteen or twenty more playing at cards. I was informed that all thele were lottery people. On further enquiry, I found that thirty-three persons were then in the Bridewell for being concerned in unlicensed lottery offices. The keeper said he supposed there would soon be a much greater number. This prison is old, and in a ruinous condition. I have reason to believe that beer and other liquors are sold by a prisoner. A very improper association of prisoners is permitted, and every thing is in the situation that is described by Mr. Howard, except that some of the prisoners are compelled to work, The conversation of

[ 24 ]

two young men, who were confined In cells, was a striking contract to the improper language which was to be heard in every other part of the prison. A new Bridewell is now building, in a fine situation, in the Cold-Bath Fields. I have not seen the plan; but am told that it will contain three hundred cells, and be so well contrived, that there is great reason to hope it will prove of real advantage to the county of Middlesex.

NEWGATE.

March 29, 1790.

This prison is in the condition which Mr. Howard has described in such expressive terms, except that it is not quite so crowded. There are at present one hundred and forty-two debtors, and three hundred and seventeen felons*. Almost: every part of the prison is dirty, and looks as if it had not been white* washed for a good while. Mr. Akerman said it was done last Spring; others said it had not been done for a much longer time. Fifty-four

This number, 459, is too great for the size of the prison; but is not so great by 105, as the average number of prisoners in the year 1786, when only 16 felons died.

[ 25 ]

felons have died since Michaelmas last, independent of those who have been executed.*

* The Sub-Committee having examined the printed Hate of Newgate, during the sheriffalty of Sir Janies Sanderson, Knt. and B. Watson, Esq. (a statement very proper to be continued annually) observe, that between the 28th of September, 1785, and the 28th of September, 1786, only sixteen felons died. The Sub-Committee next enquired how many had died during the intermediate years, and find that the number has gone on progressively encreasing in the following manner:

Year ending September 28, 1786 - 16

Ditto ending September 28, 1787 - 53

Ditto ending September 28, 1788 - 72

Ditto ending September 28, 1789 - 76

‘ In the present year of which only seven months are elapsed, the mortality, notwithstanding the attention which has been paid to the gaol by the present Sheriffs, has amounted to sixty-one. The Sub-Committee are also informed, that what is here stated to have actually happened, was in great measure foretold by the late Mr. Howard; who gave it as his opinion, that unless some very effectual measures were adopted to render Newgate more healthy, the mortality would go on cn-cicafing, till the prison became so inferred, as to occasion great danger of the gaol distemper being again communicated to those persons who attend at the Old Bailey, and being again conveyed to prisons in other parts of the kingdom, by the felons who are frequently removed to them from the metropolis.

[ 26 ]

Twenty-five are in the infirmary, which in many respects is unfit for the purpose. The floors of die wards are said to be washed every morning, but they have not the appearance of it. A poor woman, in great agony, entreated me. to obtain for her the body of her brother, who is to be executed on Wednesday. I saw another, on her knees, make the same request to Mr. Sheriff Newman for the body of her husband. I was surprised at this, as I apprehended that the bodies of criminals executed for theft, were always given to their friends when demanded by them. After some conversation I was informed, that the executioner demands a fee of six shillings and eight-pence, before he delivers them. The part of this prison which is allotted to debtors, is dirty, and there appears to be great need of new regulations being established in it. A drunken woman was lying on the floor in one of the men’s rooms, and a young man was hid behind the curtains of a bed in one of the women’s. Mr. Akerman said, repeatedly, that he had more difficulty in keeping the debtors in order, than the felons. Among these last no proper separation is made, of those who have not been tried, from those who are convicted; or of young beginners, from hardened offenders.

[ 27 ]

FLEET.

April 2, 1790.

This prison is pretty much in the fituarion in which Mr. Howard found it in October 178.81 but the number of prisoners is encreased. There are now almost one hundred and ninety in the house, and nearly as many in the rules. Many of them have been confined several years. The prison is dirty. Some old lheds should be removed; by means of which a prisoner lately made his escape. New rules and orders are much wanted j those which are hung up being of a very old date, and not observed. A tap is kept in the prison. No person of the medical profelfion is appointed to attend the sick. There is no bath. The chapel is convenient, and a chaplain has a ialary for attending it. Mr. Eyles, who lives at Wimbledon, is the warden. William Clipfon is the deputy. He seems attentive to his duty.

MARSHALSEA.

April 5, 1790.

This prison is very old, and in a ruinous condition. About thirty debtors are confined

[ 28 ]

in it. New regulations are much wanted. Drunkenness, and the sale of intoxicating liquorsj still continue. A chaplain attends, who has a salary from Government. A gentleman of the medical profelfion also attends; but is paid by having part of the fees which are exacted from the prisoners.

i

BOROUGH COMPTER.

April y, 1790,

There are eleven debtors in this prison, eight of whom are from the Court of Conscience. The prison is new, but dirty. It has not been whitewashed since it was first inhabited in 1787. There are six convenient rooms for solitary imprisonment, but they are never used. There are also several larger wards, but they are not used, and the men are always to* gether, day and night, in one ward. Garnish and fees continue to be taken. Rules and orders are much wanted. This prison is under the control of the Court of Aldermen.

SAVOY.

April 12, 1790.

This is an old prison, in a ruinous condition, and will probably be pulled down in a

[ 29 ]

short time. It is dirty and inconvenient. The prisoners are, for the most part, deserters, or soldiers belonging to the Guards, who are committed, for a few days, on account of drunkenness or misbehaviour.

Cells for solitary imprisonment. would be peculiarly well adapted to prisoners of this last description.

POULTRY COMPTER.

April 13, 1790.

This prison is old, and in so ruinous a condition, as hardly to be secure. It has not been whitewashed for fame time. The felons are much crowded. There is a clergyman who performs Divine Service on Sunday mornings, and an apothecary who attends the sick. Both of these have salaries from the city of London. The under-keeper, Mr. Hilliard, seems attentive.

WOOD-STREET COMPTER.

April 13, 1790.

This prison is in as ruinous a condition as the Poultry Compter. It is very dirty, and appeals not to have been whitewashed for a

[ 30 ]

great while. A chaplain and an apothecary are appointed by the City Magistrates to attend ir. Three boys, the eldest of whom does not appear to be above fourteen, were committed a. few days ago, for stealing: they are here day and night, in company with the most hardened felons. The keepers of both the Compters allured me that they found it much more difficult to manage the debtors than the felons. I. have been the less particular in my description of the two Compters, as a new one is almost finished; and I hope that if Wood-street and the Poultry are any longer to be used for the confinement of prisoners, the present buildings will be pulled down, and new ones erected on a more convenient plan.

NEW COMPTER.

Ann 14, 1790,

This Compter will be finished in about two months. A considerable number of cells are provided for solitary imprisonment; but if all the debtors, as well as felons, who are now confined in Wood-street and the Poultry, are to be kept in this prison, great care will be requisite in order to preserve them in a proper state of health. Its being of permanent advantage

[ 31 ]

to the city, will in great measure depend on the establishment of good regulations when it is first used.

NEW LUDGATE.

April 19, 1790;

This prison is near the London workhouse, in Bishopsgate-street. Twenty-eight debtors are confined in it. They are, for the most part. Liverymen of the city of London. The prison is clean and quiet. The rooms are airy. A clergyman and an apothecary have salaries from the city for attending it. Upon the whole, this prison appears to be better regulated than most of the prisons in London. I saw hung up in it the act* which was passed in the last session of Parliament for the more effectual execution of the laws respecting gaols, 09 Geo. Ill, c. 67.

The Sub-Committee observe, that this act, if properly enforced by the Magistrates, will contribute very much to the establishing good regulations in the prisoni in England and Wales.

[ 32 ]

NEWGATE.

April 18, 1790.

Divine Service was performed, and a sermon preached by the Rev. Mr. Vilette*.

A great many prisoners attended, and I was pleased to find, that those who did not attend were locked up, and nor suffered to disturb the others. The convicts who had received sentence of death were very properly separated from the rest. I observed that many of the prisoners were attentive, and some of them seemed much, affected widi the serious exhortation which the chaplain addressed to the mur« derer who was to be executed the next day.

The broken cafemenu of the chapel windows should be cither, repaired or removed. The latter method would be the bell. The broken windows should also be removed’ from the wards. Iron bars and wooden (butters seem bed calculated for a gaol; and if a proper allowance of coals is made, they will be sufficiently warm. The bad effeS of giafs windows, in confining the unwholcfomc air, more than overbalances any comror: or advantage which the prisoners receive from the warmth which they occasion.

[ 33 ]

It was impossible not to regret that thric men, instead of passing the rest of the day iiL separate apartments, where they might consider. what they had heard from the pulpit, and reflect on their own primes and situation, were immediately to associate with a great number of the most hardened criminals, whose profliv gate behaviour and convention must, in all probability, very soon efface every good impression which had been made in their minds by the discourse of the clergyman.

The Sub-Committee think they cannbt better conclude this account of the prefenc starc. of the prisons in the metropolis, than in the ex-prdfive words of Mr. Howard. Lazarettos, p, £33. In this further reformation, it will he ahfoluttly netessary to begin,with the Capital: f«r. as in ay farmer visits, when I have met with the gad fever in county prisonsf I have almash constantly been told that it was derived from thofem London: so the corruption of manners also,flowing from that great fountain spreads far and wide its malignant fireams. hi what prison iu London is there a proper separation of criminals j the old from the young', convicts from the untried? Where are the night rooms for folitaty conjmt>-F mnt

[ 34 ]

ment and reflexion ? Where is any proper atNation paid to ftck and dying prisoners ? In what gaol-are not the ears Jbockei with the profaneness both of prisoners and turnkeys ? Where is,any regard paid to the Lord's Day ? Where is not the afternoon of that day a time of greater contourse of vifitanls than any other ? and though the gaolers taps are abolished, yet are not publicans continur ally wailing to serve the prisoners and their company ? Is not beer now sold by the debtors ? and do not turnkeys keep fops in the gaols ? No effeSual reform will be made in our prisons till the root of these evils be cut off, which, from the clojejt obfCroatian, I am convinced is the vice of drunkenness.

From the information which the Sub-Commirtec have been able to obtain, they are afraid that moil of these interrogatives mail be answered unfavourably. "Where any exceptions have occurred, they have been carefully pointed out in the preceding Report. The appointment of clergymen and apothecaries to atrend the prisons has been noriced, and mention has been made of the New Compter in the City, and the New Bridewell which the Magistrates of the County of Mid-

[ 35 ]

dlesex are building on an improved plan.' Throughout the whole of this Report, as favourable accounts have been given as were confident with truth; but many abuses still continue in the prisons of London, which it is much to be wished should be completely reformed. The Sub-Committee most heartily agree with Mr. Howard, that Drunken-ness is one root of the evils complained ofj but they are convinced that the improper association of criminals, is another of no less magnitude*; and they appeal to every candid person, whether any plan can be conceived more repugnant to justice and to common sense, than fending a boy, who has been detefted in the full act of pilfering, to pass a considerable portion of time in a place where he is compelled to associate with hardened felons, who have employed great part of their

lives

In addition to the two great means of reforming our prisons, which undoubtedly are the preventing drunken-ness and the improper association of criminals, the Sub-Committee cannot help mentioning two others, which are also of great importance. One of them is, the compelling those prisoners to work who are sentenced to hard labour, and providing materials for such others as

are

f & u

lives in the exercise of every species of theft, and robbery; yet this method of proceeding yt& lately followed in many, and is 1H11 followed in some of our county gaols, and is actually practised at this day in almost every prison in London and its neighbourhood.

are willing to be employed; the number of these , Iatt will in all probability encrease very considerably, p fofln as the prisoners are prevented from passing the il? time in drunkenness and profane conversation, Thai other raenfure alluded to, is the entire abolition of the practice of talcing fees. This practice was allowed, to commence when the prisoner was arrested, and yyas continued in almost every department to the death of those who were convicted, and tlte difehafge of 'thoft who were acquitted. It has lately been checked ift many infiancts; bnt it is mneb to bewiihed that it should bft totally abolished.' . All persons who are employed by the public, should be justly and liberally rewarded according to the nature of their respective services j but those rewards should be known, and should be certain, not dependent on ftch precarious circumstances, as the greater or smaller number of offences which are committed j and they fhonid be received in an open manner from their superiors, not exafled clandcllinely from those who suo committed to their custody.

FINIS.

POSTSCRIPT.

June 5th, 1790.

The Sub-Committee are informed, that considerable pains have been lately taken to render Newgate more healthy than it was when the last Report was presented to the Society. Several improvements have been made in the Sick Ward; new bedsteads have been provided, and care has been taken that the Ward should be ventilated in a better manner than it has hitherto been. The whole prison has been white-washed, and many parts of it have been repaired. These improvements appear to have been attended with very good eflfe&s, as only five felons have died in the lad month, whereas the number which died during the preceding seven months amounted to sixty-one. The person from whom the Sub-Committee received this information makes mention of the humanity of the Keeper, and the attention which is paid by the Sheriffs to the state of the prison, but at the same time regrets, that it is not in their power to prevent the improper association of criminals, of all descriptions, which now takes place in it. The Sub-Committee are sensible that this practice cannot be entirely prevented, in the present state of Newgate; but, at the same time, they cannot help expressing their hopes, that the city of London will not suffer it to continue, but will apply an effectual remedy to the evil complained of.

