AN

ACCOUNT

OF THE

RISE, PROGRESS, AND PRESENT STATE

OF THE

SOCIETY

FOR THE

DISCHARGE AND RELIEF

OF

PERSONS IMPRISONED FOR SMALL DEBTS THROUGHOUT ENGLAND AND WALES.

By JAMES NEILD, Esq. Treasurer.

ONE OF HIS MAJESTY’S ACTING JUSTICES OF THE PEACE FOR THE COUNTIES OF BUCKINGHAM, KENT, AND MIDDLESEX, AND THE CITY AND LIBERTY OF WESTMINSTER.

Ah ! little think the gay -----

Whom pleasure, power, and affluence surround,

How many pine in want, and dungeon glooms;

Shut from the common air !

Thomson.

LONDON:

PRINTED BY JOHN NICHOLS AND SON,

RED LION PASSAGE, FLEET STREET.

1808.

(i)

CONTENTS.

Page

Dedication - iii

Preface to the Third Edition - x

Introduction - 13

Observations on the Law of Civil Imprisonment - 19

Table of Calculations on Bailable Process - 40

Account of the Society - 42

Rides and Orders - 49

Forms of Application for Relief - 54

Directions to the Prisoners - 56

Forms of Bequests, &c. - 58

Account of Prisons, alphabetically arranged; and of Persons confined for Debt - 65

Courts of Conscience; with their ameliorated State, through the Influence of this Society - 550

Postscript - 562

Cursory Hints, for the Internal Regulation of Prisons, under the existing Laws, respecting Persons committed for Small Debts - 571

Observations on Arrests upon Mesne Process - 575

Number of Debtors discharged from 31st March, 1807, to 31st March, 1808 - 579

List of Benefactions - 580

Summary View of Money annually, expended - 595

TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE

CHARLES MARSHAM, EARL OF ROMNEY, VISCOUNT MARSHAM,

LORD LIEUTENANT AND CUSTOS ROTULORUM OF THE COUNTY OF KENT, AND CITY OF CANTERBURY, PRESIDENT OF THE SOCIETY FOR DISCHARGE AND RELIEF OF PERSONS IMPRISONED FOR SMALL DEBTS.

MY LORD,

Whilst the loyal Volunteers of Kent were emulously demonstrating their high esteem of your patriotic spirit; and not only raised up a monument to perpetuate its memory, but presented you also with the insignia of your profession as their Commander*; whilst

* On the spot where their Majesties dined, a pavilion was erected in his Lordship’s park, inscribed, “A Tribute of Respect from the Volunteers of Kent to the Earl of Romney, Lord Lieutenant of the County.” On this occasion 5319 Volunteers were entertained at the tables, after having been reviewed by his Majesty on the 1st of August 1799, at his Lordship’s seat near Maidstone. And on the 21st of April, 1802, an elegant Sword was unanimously voted at Maidstone to the noble Earl, by the officers of the West Kent Militia, “as a token of the deep sense they entertained of his Lordship’s uniformly polite attention“ towards them, and of the zeal he has ever displayed in promoting the real interest and welfare of the regiment.”

iv DEDICATION.

justly they recorded your Lordship’s splendid entertainment of our most gracious Sovereign, his Royal Consort, his Nobles, and his People, and bore their own animated testimony to your ability and your merits; an humble individual rejoiced at the several occasions: he feelingly participated in the satisfaction which they could not but afford: he added his mite to the general applause of millions; and in a former edition of this Work presumed to offer his most cordial tribute of respect for your Lordship’s character and conduct.

Permit me now, my Lord, the honour of presenting to you, not, as in my former dedication, “the slowly ripening fruits of my researches and labours;“ but an ampler produce, which hath been matured from year to year, under such cultivation and assiduous management as I have been able to bestow upon the indigent soils and various states of every prison in this kingdom.

Yet while I thus address your Lordship with a degree of gratification almost inexpressible,

DEDICATION. v

allow me to add, that in visiting those prisons I have still, and lamentably to regret, that the medical aid so generally afforded to Felons, and to other Culprits, is, in many instances, withheld from the poor Debtor. He is thus too often left to languish, without any melioration of his condition whatever; a boon, however, which, from recent circumstances, it is earnestly hoped that the humanity of our Magistrates will, in future, be zealous to supply.

Our Courts of Judicature, my Lord, were perhaps never filled with men of greater abilities for their high office, or of more approved integrity, than at the present period. May it prove a glorious addition to the dignity of their character, that under their auspices the laws received improvement, and the oppressed captive for debt his liberty, when found worthy of so inestimable a blessing. Be it their generous object, their unceasing aim, and ultimately their essential honour, to have aided

vi DEDICATION,

the subject in the speedy re-establishment and recovery of his rights; and at the same time to protect the unfortunate honest debtor from merciless rigour and destructive confinement in a gaol! Thus will they diffuse the most unspeakable consolations to the mournful wife and hapless progeny of a once wretched, because inevitably necessitous, husband and father; causing the hearts of thousands, languishing under every privation, to rejoice, and bless such venerable preservers as the authors of their restored happiness!

To your Lordship, as its rightful patron, this little Tract again presents the narrative of peculiar sufferings and hardships; lessened, indeed, as to some interesting particulars, but still loudly calling for the alleviation of god-like Pity, It is an offering, my Lord, of gratitude, to which your well-known humanity and beneficence are most justly entitled; and which have so long and highly exalted the noble name of Romney. It includes the united

DEDICATION. vii

suffrage of thousands of our fellow creatures; and inscribes on the tablet which your Lordship’s own virtues have raised, those indelible characters which Horace so splendidly pourtrays:

---

Exegi Monumentum, aere perennius -j\

To the patronage of your Lordship’s venerable Father, the Society of Debtors, from small beginnings, owes its first establishment. To your philanthropy, my Lord, founded on so propitious a principle, must he attributed its present and yearly increasing prosperity^ You have not only aided the good work by your pecuniary services, hut especially by unremitted personal attentions, and the nourishment best adapted to its advancing age.

You have brought it forward, my Lord, to public observation and general notice, as the beloved child of a large body of the community, who have generously assisted by their

* Lib. III. Od. 30.

j- 1 have raised a monument more durable than brass:

viii DEDICATION.

labours, to rear it to maturity, under your Lordship’s unwearied vigilance and care.

“I was in prison, and ye came unto me,” are words, my Lord, that dignify a coronet, and ornament a crown. The honours which they confer are truly a robe and a diadem; and cannot be applied to your Lordship but with a striking reference to that elegant description of Job: “When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me: because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him: The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me; and I caused the widow’s heart to sing for joy.”

May that pleasure and satisfaction which are the constant associates of a benevolence like your Lordship’s, accompany your humane exertions through a long old age; and when the period shall arrive, wherein our accounts must be given, may you, my Lord, receive

that

DEDICATION.

IX

that sentence which shall then be pronounced, “ Good and faithful Servant, enter thou into “ the joy of thy Lord.”

Such is the prayer of him, who, with the highest respect, has the honour to be,

My Lord,

Your Lordship’s faithful,

and most obedient servant,

Chelsea, lit January, 1808.

JAMES NEILD.

(10)

PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION,

I CANNOT present to the Public another edition of this Book on Debtors, without expressing my grateful sense of the great assistance which I have derived from my benevolent friend Doctor Lettsom; as also for the pecuniary support in aid of the Charity, to a considerable amount *, which appears to have been sent me in immediate consequence of my Remarks on Prisons appearing in the Gentleman’s Magazine, with the introductory observations of his liberal and enlightened mind. I wish to give honour where honour is so justly due. Had it not been for his energetic strictures on my faithful communications, from time to time, I fear that the prisons, in many instances, would not only have remained without farther improvement, but, what is wrorse, that, in lamentable gradation, the improvement

* Amounting, when this Work went to press, to 3281. Zs.^Dd.

which

PREFACE,

u

which had commenced in some of them, would either have dwindled, or have been wholly done away.

After having tried, in various joumies, and during the space of thirty years, what private conference with magistrates could effect, I had the discouragement, in some districts, to find, that the alterations I had presumed to suggest, were omitted or forgotten. The great reformation produced by Howard, was in several places merely temporary:Some prisons, that had been ameliorated under the persuasive influence of his kind advice, were relapsing into their former horrid state of privation, filthiness, severity, or neglect: many new dungeons had aggravated the evils, against which his sagacity could not but remonstrate: The motives for a transient amendment were become paralyzed; and the effect had ceased with the cause.

At length, the arguments of my Friend prevailed; and I consented to the insertion of some of my letters to Dr. Lettsom in the above Magazine, as the best channel, in order to ascertain the feelings of the publick at large, on so important a subject as imprisonment for

DEBT.

12

TREFACE.

The result was propitious and highly pleasing:Scarcely three months had elapsed, when, upon my return home, I found many letters, urging me to go on; and success has exceeded my most sanguine expectations. The humane and considerate magistrates of various districts have cordially adopted and enforced the plan of reform. Their active energies have now, for five years past, been happily employed in effecting so salutary a change. Every journey I now take affords me the most reasonable hope that it will soon he completed. I esteem its advances among the amplest blessings of my life; and trust that I shall he able to relish the retrospect of them even in the nearest views of Death itself.

J. N.

(13)

ACCOUNT

OF THE

SOCIETY

FOR THE DISCHARGE AND RELIEF OF

PERSONS THROUGHOUT ENGLAND, AND WALES,

6

IMPRISONED FOR SMALL DEBTS.

INTRODUCTION-

The Charity derives its origin from the beneficial consequences of a Sermon preached at Charlotte-Street Chapel, Pimlico, and afterwards at Bedford Chapel, Bloomsbury, in the month of February, 1772.

The collection made at these chapels amounted to the sum of eighty-one pounds one shilling.

To procure relief for the miseries of those unfortunate persons who were secluded from society by imprisonment for inconsiderable debts, was the design of the preacher; and it most certainly operated upon his humanity as a powerful incentive to his

exertions.

24 INTRODUCTION.

exertions. His laudable endeavours engaged the at-

O &

tention of a set of Gentlemen to assist in the application of the money thus collected; When the sum of one hundred pounds having been sent to them by an unknown hand *, they extended their views, and formed themselves into a Committee, to search out for the objects it afterwards relieved, and to form plans for its future permanent and beneficial establishment. They visited the prisons; and diligently, and impartially, enquired into the distresses of those miserable objects of misfortune, who had been separated from their families, rendered useless to society by a deprivation of their liberty, and had no friends to undertake their cause. In this visitation the distress and extreme Wretchedness to which they were unavoidably eye-witnesses strongly affected their minds; and they determined therefore to give the publick an account of their proceedings, and of their examination into the state of the prisons of the metropolis; in hopes that it might operate upon the generous part of the community, as an incitement to their endeavours to forward the humane undertaking, and enable them to accomplish their design on a more extensive plan than in the commencement seemed to be suggested.

Accordingly, in April, 1772, they advertised their report, specifying the manner in which they had

* The late Earl of GodolpUin.

expended

iNTRODUCTlt»f.

15

upended the small sums they had thus collected; and, u that with these, namely, the fourscore pounds they h'ad happily released thirty-four prisoners; most of whom had large families, and appeared to be worthy and useful members of society; some of whom were confined for their fees only. But the Committee expressed a great regret at the thought of leaving behind them various other imprisoned suppliants; nineteen of whom appeared to be very great objects of compassion, and might all be discharged for less than one hundred potuids. Of the rest, many were evidently such, as well deserved to share the attention and benevolence of the Publick.” The Committee therefore solicited the aid of the liberal and well disposed, and had soon the satisfaction of finding themselves enabled to extend the charitable hand to a very large number of miserable sufferers in confinement; for early in May 1773 (within fifteen months from the commencement of the undertaking) the following statement was published as their

“ GENERAL ACCOUNT, May 12, 1772.

£. s. d.

Benefactions to this day - - 2922 11 10

Disbursements to discharge nine hundred and eighty-six prisoners - - 2892 19 4

Leaving in their hands a balance of £.29 12 6”

In

16

IKTRODUCTIO N.

In the early infancy of their plan, the Committee were hardly sanguine enough to expect so liberal an encouragement, and therefore did not at first take an accurate account of the wives and children of the prisoners released. However, it since appears, that at the period in question, to the 98G prisoners above mentioned as discharged, there belonged 566 wives, and 2389 children, making in all 3941 souls, essentially relieved by means of this public Institution.

Far the greater^ number of objects released were manufacturers, seamen, and labourers, whose services, for a long time withheld from the publick by confinement, were now restored to the community. The charity, of course, was found to claim a serious attention, not merely from the avowed humanity of its purpose, but also politically, from the advantages which it afforded to society at large; and which, in a commercial country like ours, could not fail to produce conviction in every judicious mind.

In a very short time after its commencement, as appears from the books of the Society, the Committee had the satisfaction of seeing that various -considerable debts, to the amount of twelve thousand pounds and upwards, had been, by this means, compounded for, and reduced; and thus a two-fold benefit was secured to the creditor and his helpless debtor, by an equal attention to them both.

The

INTRODUCTION.

17

The Committee became more animated by their success; and their expectations were more highly raised, when they perceived what GREAT EVENTS from LITTLE CAUSES might succeed. They expand the human heart, and lift the soul in gratitude to Heaven. The rich seeds of benevolence were now largely thrown out, as upon a once barren soil, and the desert became a fruitful field !

Thus encouraged to persevere in the good work so kindly adopted, they determined to omit no means, under the blessing of Providence, of making it prosperous, and adding to it dignity, stability, and success.

At a meeting, therefore, on the 5th of May, 1773, the RULES and ORDERS hereafter mentioned were settled and confirmed.

Such were the exertions of the Members of this benevolent Institution. The little spark which was casually cast among such materials, had now kindled into a flame; and many gentlemen, of truly philanthropic minds, stept forward, to render it not only their pecuniary, but their personal assistance also.

By these means was the SOCIETY for Discharge and Relief of Prisoners for small Debts most completely established; and their Office is now held (where it has been for thirty-five years,) at No. 7, B Craven-

18

INTRODUCTION.

Craven-street, Strand, London, under the direction and management of the following Noblemen and Gentlemen; viz.

PRESIDENT,

The Right Hon. the EARL of ROMNEY,

(who has devoted much of his time and attention to its welfare and prosperity.)

VICE PRESIDENTS, TheMostNoble the MARQUISofIIERTFORD. Right Hon. EARL RADNOR.

The Right Hon. LORD BARHAM,

The Hon. PHILIP PUSEY.

TREASURER,

JAMES NEILD, Esa,

Mr. R. Grasswell, No. 7, Craven-street, Secretary; to whom applications are to be made by the debtors suing for relief.

(19 >

OBSERVATIONS

ON THE

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT.

An esteemed Writer on the principles of Penal Law considers imprisonment, when inflicted for punishment, as not according to the principles of wise legislation. If this position Ije true in respect to crimes committed against positive institutions (and it seems too firm to be shaken,) how much more forcibly will it apply to civil arrests, and imprisonment for debt, when the multiplied and intricate concerns of extended society make the path of the most intelligent in matters of trade a course of considerable uncertainty. If then the political wisdom of confining the persons of debtors for debt be matter of doubt, how important is it that, whilst the practice is allowed to continue, it should be subjected to such general regulations, as are best calculated to lessen the resulting inconveniences, and prevent the necessity of resorting, at least so frequently

as

20

OBSERVATIONS ON THE

as of late years, to the legislature, for acts of parliament to relieve insolvent debtors; which, while they do honour to the feelings of those friends of humanity who introduce and promote them, it must be admitted are too often perverted to screen a fraudulent debtor from the just demands of his injured creditors. It is the fate of whatever is human to be slow in its progress to perfection; nor is it matter of surprize, when rightly considered, that the laws of a country should move the slowest, where rectitude is their aim.

In the early ages of society the mind of man is less complicated than when advanced into the refinement of later governments. The laws at first laid down for his regulation are, like his habits, plain, and intelligible to the most ordinary capacity, being little more than moral rules or maxims, against which he is not to offend; and having few temptations to lead him astray, he readily forms himself to their government: But, when luxuries, the never-failing attendants upon successful commerce, break in upon his primitive habits, new laws become necessary to restrain the too free indulgence of his acquired propensities. These laws are not framed in the anticipation of new events, which a prospective eye may view as likely to arise in the progress of society, but to check what have already taken place, and to prevent their recurrence:Hence it follows, that laws

so

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT.

521

so formed will always be somewhat behind the actual state of the people, their proneness to vice considered; and it frequently happens that laws calculated to suit one state of society, are permitted to continue in another, and to remain as law at a period, in which, if they were then introduced for the first-time, they would be unanimously rejected, as impolitic, and inapplicable to the condition of the people to be governed by them. In this view of the subject, arrests for debt may be considered; and, although when England was the lowest amongst the commercial nations of Europe, arrests for debt might have been less impolitic, it can hardly therefore be argued, that their continuance should be suffered, when England, as at present, is the first trading country in the world.

In a commercial country the hazards attendant upon justifiable commerce entitle the unsuccessful adventurer to greater indulgences, than a debtor, under almost any circumstance, could have a right to expect in a country purely military. But, leaving the policy of the question, as to whether arrests for debt ought or ought not to be continued, to the judgment of those who are better able to consider it, and without venturing to anticipate what would be the decision, it seems a more useful appropriation of the time of an humble individual, to consider the law as it stands at present; and to inquire,

22 OBSERVATIONS ON THE

whether a superstructure may not be raised, to answer many good and salutary purposes, without materially affecting the fabric, which, whatever may be its defects, has the venerable shield of time to protect it against the grasp of hasty innovation. Secondary causes, or inducements, to cast the unfortunate debtor into prison, or to continue his confinement when there, beyond what naturally arise between him and his creditor, should be watched with jealousy, and removed, if possible; and it would be desirable indeed, when a returning gleam of liberty presents itself to the prisoner, if he could be 'found no further encumbered with debt than when he first became an inhabitant of the gaol. At this moment of hope the debt can be arranged for; but, alas, the costs are of equal amount, and present an insuperable bar to his liberation ! It would be deemed a wicked oppression, on the part of a government that transported a subject to slavery for a period of years, to say, at the end of the term, “ Your labour was ours by the offence which you committed: We have now £ demand upon you ee both for the clothing we have supplied, and for “ the provision you have consumed; and as you are te unable to pay us, you must return again to slavery (C for the debt you have contracted.” His reasoning, that the origin of the debt was involuntary on his part, would be of no avail: the hand of power is

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT. 23

against him; and as well might the debtor say, the costs were not incurred by his act, nor with his consent, and he ought not to be detained for them. When a disappointed and offended creditor applies to his attorney, he hardly desires his advice, but rather directs the proceedings to be taken with his debtor; and, indeed, if he did otherwise, what answer could be expected ? Is not law the business of the attorney ? and is it found that men, generally speaking, who have the greatest temptation thrown in their way are the best ? Individuals may be, and are not unfrequently, so found; because from temptation alone can self-denial and forbearance be discovered:but experience proves that it is not so with the great bulk of mankind. “ Just debts ought to <c be paid, or the laws must be enforced for their “ recovery, ” is the language of the irritated creditor, re-echoed by his attorney; with this only difference between them, that the one is unconscious of the result of what he directs, while the other, with the knowledge, has the satisfaction also of knowing that the plaintiff is a solvent man, and that, be the event what it may, the attorney must be paid. Thus, regardless of their operation on the unfortunate debtor, proceedings commence: in a short time considerable costs are incurred; the already angry creditor finds himself exposed to a new loss, which he never anticipated; and

24 OBSERVATIONS ON THE

becomes not only confirmed in his first resentments, but furnished with fresh occasion for their inveteracy. Is a man so circumstanced fit to judge in his own cause ? Is he capable of deciding, with moderation and temper, upon the portion of imprisonment his debtor ought to endure ? It will be readily answered, “ Certainly, no !” The hardened creditor will triumph in the imprisonment which he has power to inflict, —regardless of the sufferings of the man, whom, perhaps, he at first solicited to take the credit he has abused, and equally unmindful of fhe wretched complainings of a forlorn wife and starving children; while the man less cruel, or perhaps indolent in his nature, as also the man basking in thfe sunshine of prosperity, will put away the prisoner from his thoughts. But, should his complaints or humble solicitations be obtruded upon him, he will endeavour to excuse his want of humanity, by the pretence that the confinement of the prisoner is an act of the law, for which he is under no responsibility. Can a more wretched state of man be conceived ? Nay, more, does even the fraudulent debtor merit this perpetual, undefined punishment, in all the wantonness of its tyranny ?

In further pursuit of these observations let it be supposed, that an unfortunate man, unable even to pay a debt of 10/. is arrested on the eve of a law term, and thrown into prison for his inability;

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT. 25

and that, in the same number of days as he owes pounds, he will be involved in a fresh debt, of equal or greater amount, for the costs of his detainer in prison; what will be the exclamation of the voice of Reason ? But, carry the enquiry a little further, and let us suppose, that his attachment by one creditor alarms the rest (nor is it unnatural that it should do so), and that he has ten detainers laid against him for debts of the same amount; what will then be his situation ? Why, he will in a few days be encumbered with additional debts, for costs of a greater amount than all his original debts put together, at the very time that he is immured in prison, without subsistence, or the means of earning any for himself, or the wretched dependents on* his affections, and, without having done a single act to occasion the expences which he is wholly unable to prevent. And what then will be the exclamation; and where, as the law now stands, is he to look for mercy ? The Bankrupt Laws, which to the fair trader, who has had the good fortune to deal with humane creditors, afford relief, are not open to his assistance: he has been too modest in all his transactions in trade, to have ventured sufficiently to come within their purview; his debts are not of the required amount to entitle him to their relief. His creditors, —most probably of the ' same class in life with himself, and who can but ill

26 OBSERVATIONS ON THE

afford to pay the expences that have been incurred, —will they commiserate his sufferings, and restore him to liberty ? or will they not rather be acted upon, in the fulness of their resentments at the loss of their debts, and having, as they unfortunately experience, thrown away good money after bad, and (apprehensive, if they liberate the prisoner, they can have no pretence for suspending the payment of their attorney’s costs,) be more likely to continue his confinement, and endeavour to throw the odium of the expences being incurred upon the pretended obstinacy of the unfortunate victim, for whom no one considers it his interest, or feels any incitement, to drop a word of kindness or mitigation ? And yet, in a Country boastful of its laws and its freedom, these are the persons who are to pronounce on this imprisonment of their fellow-subjects, perhaps for the period of their lives, without the right of appeal to their country, or the hope of relief! Power in the hands of man is always subject to abuse; but what is to be expected from him, when he is suffered to judge his own cause, under the influence of conceived injuries, and agitated by resentment? The highest advocates for the dignity of human nature must admit, that, in practice, the result will not be found to elevate their subject.

In support of what is here stated, the ordinary and allowed Bills of Fees and Disbursements in

cases

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT.

27

cases of arrests for 101. have been made out; by which it appears, that at the commencement of a term they will, within ten days, in London, amount to near 121.

In the case of an arrest, where the defendant is taken to prison.

Hilary Vacation.

I. s. d.

19th April. Instructions and warrant to sue 0 12 0

Affidavit of debt - 0 7 2

Drawing Precipe for original

fol. 25 ...... 15 0

Copy for the Cursitor 0 12 6

Paid for original .05 6

Fee thereon - 0 6 8

Paid the King’s fine, and attending to compound it . 0 10 0

Returning and filing original 0 2 4

Capias and fee - 0 16 0

Warrant and messenger 0 2 0

Attending to instruct officer 0 3 4

Paid officer for arrest . 0 10 6 *

Letters and messengers 0 2 0

Hilary Term.

23d April. Motion for a rule to return

the writ .034

Paid for the rule 0 6 6

Copy and service . .020

28

OBSERVATIONS ON THE

/. S. (I.

Instructions for declaration 0 6 8

Drawing same, fol. 25 . 0 1(5 8

Entering on the roll, and paid

Prothonotary . 1 5 0

Copy declaration on stamps, to deliver to defendant, and duty . 0 9 8

Attending to deliver same .034 Affidavit of service, duty, and oath . .072

Copy declaration to annex to affidavit, and duty . 0 9 8

Copy affidavit and declaration, and stamps .:0 13 4

29th, Paid filing affidavit and declaration ' 0 2 0

Attending to file same:0 3 4

Term fee, letters and messengers . 0 12 0

11 15 8

And in the country, if the arrest is made at a considerable distance from the county gaol, they will perhaps amount to 20 L in the same period of time.

The Lords’ Act, which subjects the creditor to make his prisoners an allowance while he detains them in prison, , may be considered by some as a

sufficient

30

OBSERVATIONS ON THE

will now turn to the fraudulent and designing debtor, and see how the Act operates with respect to him and his injured plaintiff. Conscious of the time which he is aware will be consumed before he is put into a situation to seek the benefit of the Act, he takes care to retain to himself the means of subsistence during the protracted period; then fraudulently makes over the rest of his property, to put it out of the reach of his creditors; and when the time arrives for making his claim under the Lords’ Act, he audaciously takes the prescribed oaths, and is ordered to receive its benefit.

The duty of the Judges, it is possible, may sometimes interfere with their judgments, whilst ordering the relief intended by the Legislature for the impoverished debtor, to many applicants, whose conduct, even in the face of the Court, almost amounts to a conviction, that their applications are made in the confident expectation of their plaintiffs’ neglecting to make the due payments at the appointed times. It is the natural consequence attendant upon an order for the payment of an allowance to a prisoner, that it should not only be made in the current coin of the country, but punctually also, on a fixed day, and at a stated period; and that any omission or non-compliance with the order should be followed by the prisoner’s liberation:Hence it may

be

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT.

1

be seen, that the payment of a counterfeit sixpence, (and who, in the present state of the silver currency of England, can be certain that their money is not counterfeit ?) or the forgetfulness of the plaintiff' to make his payment at the prison on the appointed day, or till one minute after the prison is shut for the night, must be followed by the immediate discharge of the debtor. What a promising speculation this, on which the fraudulent debtor may realize his hopes ! A plaintiff situate many miles from the prison, will but in few cases continue his payments for several weeks:most likely he will fail in the first week; and the greatest rogue be thus cast upon society, to renew his depredations on the fair trader, without being in the least reclaimed by his imprisonment. Voluntary confinement, the basis of a contrivance to defraud, can produce no improvement in the moral habits of a prisoner.

From this view of the Lords’ Act it seems fairly deducible, that the honest debtor may be starved before he can have the benefit of its provisions; whilst the fraudulent debtor finds in it the very probable, if not certain prospect of his liberation.

To remedy these evils as much as circumstances will admit, Insolvent Acts are devised. But, much as the principle of these Acts must be admired by every friend of society, and great as is

the

3 2

OBSERVATIONS ON THE

the care of their humane framers to govern their operations by the wise and numerous provisions they contain, it must be admitted, that though productive of much general good, they will at times be found to extend their influence in favour of the profligate and designing debtor.

A modification of the existing laws respecting debtor and creditor, would, it is conceived, afford a remedy for the present inconveniences, without the necessity, in the first instance, of framing a new code.

The practice of the Courts may, in all cases, remain the same as it now is:But, surely, it will not be too great a boon for the unfortunate debtor to solicit of his country, that, whilst he remains in actual confinement, through incapacity to pay his debts, he should stand excused from contributing to the necessities of the state; and that all legal pro--r ceedings against him, when a prisoner, should be exempted from stamp-duty.

The Judges of the land, not more elevated by their wisdom than their humanity; and, mindful of the liberal and well-bestowed salaries they receive from the country, can have no hesitation in ordering the subordinate proceedings of the courts, conducted at their chambers, to be transacted gratuitously, without taking any fees for the same.

The

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT. 33

The Barristers, educated to fill, and in the hope bf discharging at some future period of life, one of the most important trusts in human society, can be influenced by no mercenary motives. It is but justice therefore to the known liberality of the bar, to conclude, that they will, with one voice, consent to a privation of their fees, in all cases, where proceedings are to be taken against the unfortunate debtor, whilst in custody *

The Officers of the Courts, in the multiplicity of their other daily business, will find a remuneration for their trouble, sufficient to put them beyond the desire of taking any thing from a prisoner, abso* lutely denied the means of protecting himself and family, through the heavy inflictions of poverty.

The Attorney, —who principally labours in the business, —must perhaps receive some reward for his personal trouble; but he should be removed, far as possible, from the influence of interested views. The best mode of securing so desirable an end seems to be, the reducing his fees to half their present amount, in all proceedings against debtors under actual confinement. By this means the mercy of the plaintiff will not be restrained by the recollection of considerable law expences, in addition to his debt; and his resentments having subsided, he may in time think more favourably of his unfortunate debtor, and restore fiim to the C blessings.

34

OBSERVATION'S ON THE

blessings of Liberty. Nay, it seems not too much to apprehend, that the adoption of this plan, alone, would reduce the number of prisoners confined for debt, at least in the proportion of six out of ten.

But, to guard against the effect of a contrary temper in any plaintiff ', who, careless or unmindful of his debtor, may incline to leave him to the laws of the country, and the imprisonment which they inflict, —a further remedy presents itself, under which an Apportionate Imprisonment might be inflicted according to the nature and extent of the debts, and of the particular circumstances under which they were contracted.

The first feature of a plan, professing to allow of temporary imprisonment for debt, should be the.providing necessaries of life for the impoverished debtor, in order to protect the man, now rendered unable to protect himself, from the painful claims of unsatisfied nature. This allowance might be provided out of the county-rate; and, to prevent its. misapplication, might only be furnished to those prisoners, whose necessities oblige them to live on the poor side of the prison, (deprived of all association with the prisoners whose better circumstances, or friends, place them above the necessity of seeking so humble a relief,) and who are, also, in a situation to declare themselves upon oath not to be possessed of the value of 20/.

This

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT.

35

This would prevent the recurrence of what humanity dreads to record; although it may be asked, “ What else can be expected, when certain prisons in Great Britain for confinement of debtors are without any allowance of food whatever; nay, some even without access to 'water I and have no more than the keeper, or his servants, think fit to bring them ?—In one place they paid a halfpenny for a jug of water; in another, a penny for a pailful !

The next object to be considered is, At what period of time the prisoner for debt, against whom no imputation can be brought of dishonesty or intentional misconduct, may, with safety to the state, be restored to his liberty. How obligatory soever it may be upon every man to pay the debt which he owes to another man, there is still a higher duty which he owes to his country at large, in the application of his labour and talents for the general good of the community; and of his power to perform which no man, under any circumstances, ought to possess the means of arbitrarily depriving him. It seems difficult to reconcile to any principle of sense or policy, that a man, to whom a debt of only 10/. is due (a sum very inadequate to the claim, which, in these times, the country has upon the annual exertions of the humblest of her individuals) shall possess the power of depriving the state of his c 2 debtor's

OBSERVATIONS ON* TllE

6

debtors services for a long course of years—nityj for ever, without limitation of time in his favour to restore him to liberty. Surely, in like manner, as the less the nature of a mail’s crimes is who offends against the Criminal Law, the lighter is his punishment; so the smaller a man’s debts bona jide contracted are, the shorter should be the period of his confinement. And here it may not be amiss to observe, that, generally speaking, the man who is cast into prison for a debt of 10/. may really be a more useful member of the country, by the due application of his labour, than the prisoner who is confined for 10,000l. A period of three months may reasonably be considered as a sufficient length of confinement to induce a more cautious conduct' in the future dealings of a man, whose debts may not exceed 10/.; and proportionate progressive scales of time and money may be formed to produce the same' good effect with debtors, whose debts are from that sum up to 2000L And after these, perhaps, it might be as well to suffer all debts of a higher amount to be placed in the same scale.

But as the creditor ought not to possess an un-controuled power over the person of his debtor, so perhaps the debtor should not be enabled to determine the quantum of punishment in the power of his creditor to inflict upon him: And, for this reason, his liberation at the periods proposed might

not

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT.

37

not stand as matter of right, but only times assigned, when he may have the power of submitting his conduct, —in regard to the contracting of debts for which he is charged in custody, —to the consideration of a Jury, summoned by the, proper officer, at the instance of the prisoner, and upon notice to be duly served on the plaintiff's attorney.

If, upon this investigation of the prisoner’s conduct, nothing should transpire to induce the jury to remand him back to prison, their verdict might give him his liberty; and the law might thereupon vest his property in the clerk of the peace, or other officer, for the benefit of his creditors, in like manner as the insolvent’s property is now vested under the Acts for relief of insolvent debtors. But should the jury be of opinion that the conduct of the debtor merits a prolongation of his imprisonment, it might be safely left with them to determine the extent of its continuance according to their judgment, founded upon the facts disclosed in evidence; and for this purpose the plaintiff might l>itnself be examined on oath. Or, the power of the jury, in case of their remanding the prisoner, might be modelled according to the better judgment of Magistrates, or other more experienced persons, so as to do justice between the country and the parties.

The operation of such a plan as this upon the fraudulent debtor, is too obvious to require explanation.

3«

OBSERVATIONS ON THE

tion. He would be remanded to an increase of punishment, proportioned to his misconduct; while the honest, though unfortunate debtor, would be restored by the voice of his countrymen to his liberty, to his family, and to those social blessings, of which perhaps the becoming security for a friend in an unguarded moment, may have deprived him.

Another advantage also might be made to result from an appeal to a jury. The fraudulent debtor, who prefers remaining in gaol to the payment of his debts, and who lives in confinement, surrounded with luxuries, -:—whilst his plaintiff may pine without, scarce able to provide himself and family with the ordinary necessaries of life, —might be summoned before a jury, at the desire of any of his creditors, after he had remained the apportioned time in confinement, according to the amount of his debts:and, unless he could shew a satisfactory reason why his effects should not be assigned for the benefit of his creditors, the jury might by their verdict, find for, and direct such assignment to take effect, and that the prisoner should be set at lar<re. Thus the fraudulent debtor would be

O

prevented from wasting that substance in confinement, which his creditors would gladly receive in satisfaction of their debts; but upon which, as the law at present stands, they can have no claim.

If

LAW OF CIVIL IMPRISONMENT.

39

If the principles here humbly laid down were approved of, a bill; with no more clauses in it than are ordinarily introduced into an Insolvent Act, would furnish all the requisites necessary to carry it into efiect; and which, it is imagined, would at once render Insolvent Acts unnecessary; deprive the fraudulent debtor of the means of diverting the Lords’ Act from its humane object, to the worst of purposes; enable the unfortunate debtor to restore himself to pursuits of industry, for the support of himself and family; and deter the evil-minded from levelling their fraudulent practices against the fair trader: or, —in case they should be found hardy enough to continue their evil courses, —by exemplary and not indiscriminate punishment, teach them to adopt a better plan of life when liberated, and to cease from defrauding their neighbours, under a daringly pretended sanction of British Law.

A TABLE

(40)

A TABLE of Bailable Process against Debtors for ONE

THE PARTICULARS.

WHITS for the Arrest of Debtors on Mesne Process ARRESTS of ditto on Mesne Process - -

BAIL BONDS given on Arrests ----

PRISONERS remaining for Want of Bail - *

* For this Table of Calculations I beg leave to express my acknowledgements to Joseph Burchell, Esq. the present worthy Under-Sheriff of Middlesex.

Note, The disproportion against the first and lowest class, on a comparison with the second, is two to one} on a comparison with the third, is increased $ and on a comparison with the fourth class, is twenty to one.

Middlesex is reckoned only at one fifteenth of the whole kingdom:

(41)

YEAR., from Michaelmas, 1801, to Michaelmas, 18029 DIVIDED INTO FOUR CLASSES.

First Class. Second Class. Third Class. Fourth Class.

Debts under ^30. Debts above £30. and under ^50. Debts above ^50. and under £300. Debts above £$oo.

NUMBERS. NUMBERS. NUMBERS. NUMBERS.

In Middlesex. In the Kingdom. In Middlesex. In the Kingdom. In Middlesex. In the Kingdom. In Middlesex. In the Kingdom.

Cm CO u4>57° 3860 $7>9°° 3134 47, oro 355 3325

4000 60,000 IIOO 16, 500 1720 25, 800 200 3000

2200 33, °°° 711 10, 665 IIOO 16, 500 130

823 34$ 221 3315 308 4620 36 54

The number of Debtors, consisting of the capital Merchants and Traders to all parts of the world, is reckoned greatly to exceed the number of those whose credit is limited to the sums of Thirty Pounds; the disproportion is therefore much greater against the lowest class than is apparent.

In 1793 the number of bailable writs and executions for debts from ten to twenty pounds, in Middlesex only, amounted to five thousand, seven hundred and nineteen; and the aggregate amount of the debts sued for was a£81, 791.

It will scarce be credited, yet is most unquestionably true, that the mere costs of these actions, although made up, and not defended at all, would amount to ^68, 728.; and if defended, the aggregate expence to recover ^81, 791. (strange and incredible as it must appear) can be no less than two-hundred and eighty-jive thousand nine hundred and fifty pounds, being considerably more than three Jimes the amount of the debts sued for or defended.

(42)

AN ACCOUNT

OF

THE SOCIETY.

THE Committee of this Institution observe with pleasure, that no charitable establishment hath met with a more universal approbation than that in which they have so earnestly engaged. In the commencement of their plan the sums collected amounted to no more than eighty-one pounds one shilling; which the Committee having expended, were under much anxiety for the success of its future welfare, and greatly feared that the business must have terminated together with their labours.

However, the benefits they have since by the public bounty obtained, and been instrumental in diffusing among numbers of the distressed orders of mankind, afford them the most heartfelt satisfaction; and these benefits appear from the General Accompts annexed to this little tract.

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY.

43

As many advantages may be derived from a public Institution, which are not to be obtained by Individuals, several executors, and public bodies, the guardians of property to be appropriated to the discharge of debtors, have annually transferred it to the funds of the Society; convinced of the highly superior benefits arising from their mode of procedure; who are enabled to settle for the discharge of each debtor on an average regulation or payment of about two pounds fourteen shillings, which formerly cost them from four to six pounds.

The benefactions annually received are upwards of two thousand pounds, including legacies, with which the Society discharge about eight hundred debtors. But the Committee observe with concern, that the distresses of the poor have greatly increased, perhaps in proportion to the advanced price of provisions, and the decrease of trade and manufactures. They have, however, the great satisfaction to observe, that no objection worthy of the least notice has ever been urged against the plan or the measures they have adopted. Indeed they speak to the heart; for at the same time that they appeal to every man’s feelings, both his reason and judgment must approve them, and his humanity must plead for their continuance and prosperity.

The utility of the Society for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors will appear, from the consideration

that

44

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY,

that every poor man’s labour may be estimated at an average value of two shillings and sixpence per day, or three pounds five shillings per month. Now, the Society having set at liberty 848 imprisoned debtors, within the last year, the benefit immediately resulting to community will amount to 5512/. supposing each of these persons to have obtained his liberty only two months sooner than he would have obtained it without the assistance of the Society. And if to this benefit should be added the advantages derived by the prevention of such numbers of prisoners and their families from becoming burthensome to their parishes, the aggregate emolument drawn from the Institution will appear to be of vast magnitude and value. This, surely, is of great moment; and ought to claim the individual attention of the tradesman and the merchant, the patriot and the senator, to unite their efforts in so general an undertaking for the good of the community at large.

As such, therefore, it is, that the Committee are again solicitous to submit to their consideration a Society, which, since its very humble commencement, has conducted this cause of humanity with diligence and care; which has the honour of being joined and assisted by the pecuniary and personal efforts of many of the most respectable and illustrious personages of the kingdom, without whose aid

account of the society. 45

and exertions the Institution could not have been supported, nor the wretched inmates of a prison restored to their liberty.

The books of the Society, their account of receipts, disbursements, and other proceedings, are always open for general inspection. By many of the nobility and gentry who have taken the trouble of examining them, the most honourable testimony has been paid; and, actuated by the purest principles of Christian Philanthropy, they have set a noble example of generous liberality> for others to imitate and follow.

The number of debtors relieved and discharged within twelve months, from March 1807, amounted to 848; who had 567 wives, and 1548 children; and the expence attending the same was 339 & 1. 17s. 5d» The average therefore paid, including every incidental expence of rent, printings advertisements, books, &c. requisite for conducting the business, appears to be about 4/. 05. id. for each debtor. Nor have the exertions of the Society been confined to the gaols of the metropolis alone, but extended to the various prisons ol' England and Wales: No respect was paid to their locality; the calls of distress were alike heard and attended to, from whatever part of prison they came$ and the magnitude of the debt was no object with the Society, provided it could be compromised and

brought

46 ’

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY,

brought within the avowed scope and intention of their design.

Upon the Society’s investigation into the state and distress of the debtors, many were found to have been imprisoned for years together for very inconsiderable sums:hopeless of any relief from a charity so humble in its finances, and not professing to take cognizance of very large concerns.

Upon these plain grounds, therefore, it is submitted to the consideration of the judicious and feeling mind, whether an undertaking, thus arduous ir\ itself, and kind to the community at large, doth not merit the .warm encouragement of a Nation like ours, the most eminently and nobly distinguished for its policy and commerce, its liberality, and genuine love of benevolence.

The applications made to the Society, notwithstanding all its past exertions, increase; and especially from the county gaols, where the unfortunate debtor, who appears to have been long forgotten by every friend, now' seems well informed of the nature of their plan. Objects like these have surely a large demand on public munificence; and there is no doubt but that they will be attended to with suitable regard.

So widely, then, as the Governors of the Institution shall be enabled, by the public bounty, to throw

open

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY.

47

open the doors of the prison; so long as they can wipe away the tears of the helpless sufferer, by restoring him to his liberty and his family; —in such proportion, and with an alacrity suited to the claim which shall be made, will this Charity be impartially extended throughout the kingdom of Great Britain to the poor and destitute debtor in his prison, who otherwise might have cried in vain, and found no hand to help him.

(4S)

SOCIETY FOR THE DISCHARGE AND RELIEF OF PERSONS IMPRISONED FOR SMALL DEBTS.

Craven-street, Feb. 17, 1801. AT a Meeting of this Society, held on Wednesday the 11th instant, Resolved unanimously, That the thanks of this Society be given to their Noble President, the Right Honourable the Earl of ROMNEY, for the honour his Lordship has done them, in presenting the Treasurer’s Report of the State of Prisons to his Majesty; and also for the unremitting attention his Lordship has been pleased to shew, upon all occasions, to the interests of this Institution.

Ordered, That the same be published in the Daily Papers.

R. Grasswell. Secretary,

50

RULES AND ORDERS OF THE SOCIETT

IV. MEETINGS.

I. That there be an Annual Meeting, on the first Wednesday in April *.

II. That there be four quarterly general meetings in every year.

III. And also a meeting of the Committee on the first Wednesday -j~ in every month, at Twelve o’clock.

IV. Of all which several meetings, due notice shall be given by advertisement in the public newspapers J.

V. That the place for holding all such meetings be in Craven-street §.

V. OF THE TREASURER.

I. That he receive all benefactions, keep an ac-> count of all receipts and payments, and adjust the same at the four general quarterly courts, or oftener, if required by the rest of the Governors.

* Originally it was on the 5th of May.

f Weekly meetings were necessary in the infancy of this Charity 3 but such forms have been adopted, from the experience of the Committee, that, in its maturity, their meeting once a month at noon is found to be fully sufficient.

X The Advertisements have since been confined to the Quarterly Courts cnly.

§ The Society, soon after their establishment, took an office at No. 7, Craven-street, Strand, where the business of the Charity is transacted 5 but originally it was held at the Thatched-house Tavern, St. James’s-street.

II. He

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTORS.

51

II. He is to advance no monies cn account of the Charity, unless authorised thereto by writing, under the hand of three of the Committee at their meetings.

VI. OF THE SECRETARY.

He is to be present at all the meetings of the Governors, to take the minutes; receive and prepare all petitions; make the necessary enquiries, and report to the Committee concerning them:To draw up the accounts, and carry on the correspondence and business of the Charity, under the direction of the Committee.

VII. OF GOVERNORS IN GENERAL, AND THEIR QUALIFICATIONS *

I. That this Charity be supported by annual subscriptions, or other voluntary benefactions.

II. That all annual subscribers of or above the sum of two guineas, are, and shall be esteemed Governors, and of the Committee.

III. That if any annual subscriber shall be more than two years in arrear, his power as a Governor shall cease, until such arrears are paid.

IV. That all benefactors of or above the sum of twenty guineas, now are, and shall be esteemed perpetual Governors.

V. That the nomination of Officers be in the Governors, and decermined by a majority.

D 2

VIII. OF

52

RULES AND ORDERS OF THE SOCIETY

VIII. OF THE OBJECTS TO BE RELIEVED.

I. They shall be persons actually imprisoned, whose respective debts, or the composition for whose debts, shall not exceed the sum of ten POUNDS.

II. That women shall be equally entitled to the benefit of this Charity as men.

III. That such debtors shall have the preference, as are most aged or infirm; have the largest families unprovided for; are the most likely to be useful to the community; and appear to have lost their liberty by unavoidable misfortunes; as least, not by fraud, vice, or extravagance.

IV. That as to such imprisoned debtors as have helpless families, who suffer by the faults of their principal, and are undeservedly reduced to poverty, the Committee shall be at liberty to give the families some assistance, in proportion to their distress, , and agreeably to the intentions of the Charity.

V. That no person be delivered a second time; unless it shall appear to the Committee, that their

• second misfortune cannot be imputed to their own fault.

VI. That an account be annually published, of the number of persons discharged and relieved; but their names not mentioned: together, with an account of the sums paid for them, and of the

prisons

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTORS.

53

prisons from which they were respectively discharged.

IX. OF PETITIONS, AND PETITIONERS.

That, at their respective meetings, the Committee refer all the petitions then received to the Secretary, for his examination and enquiry, during the current month. That the report he shall make on them, with the vouchers for their respective characters, be considered at the next Committee meeting; and that they be proceeded on accordingly, in preference to any other applications.

FORMS

(54)

FORMS OF APPLICATION

TO THIS SOCIETY FOR RELIEF.

THE Debtor receives gratis from the Gaoler a printed Petition, of which the following is a copy:

To the Right Honourable the President, the Vice Presidents, and other Members of the Society for Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts.

The humble Petition of late of street, in the parish of

in the County of -

Sheweth,

That your Petitioner—hath not received any benefit from your Society heretofore:That he is in the Year of his Age: by profession a

and hath Insert the

Wife, and number of Children, if any, under 14 years of age.

That

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY.

55

f Insert the side of the prison where the debtor is confined.

J Insert the plaintiff's name, profession, and abode.

§ Insert what kind of value the prisoner had of his plaintiff for the Debt.

|| Here mention the Court whence the writ issued: also the dates of the declaration, trial, or judgment, as the case may be, and, if supersedable, thetimewhen, and for what reason.

Insert the names, professions, and places of abode of two housekeepers who are acquainted with the prisoner's case; but if a country petitioner, reference must be made to the clergyman, church-wardens, $c. of the parish wherein he or she lately resided.

That lie was committed to the prison of on day of

and continues confined

on the

of the said prison, for a debt of I. sworn to by \

of

street, in the parish of for §

H Attorney is Mr.

who hath proceeded against your petitioner in the Court of ||

That it may require I. s. d. to pay for and

also to pay the prison-fees, to obtain your petitioner’s liberty: who having no effects, or power, to discharge the same, most humbly prays to partake of your bounty, in such away as to you may seem meet: and refers to

of

in the parish of

and

of

street, in the parish

of

for a character of his sobriety and integrity.

DIREC-

5

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

DIRECTIONS TO THE PRISONERS.

I. DEBTORS who desire to partake of this Charity, must apply by printed Petition only; a form of which, as above, may be had of the respective Keepers, gratis.

II. No Petition will be attended to, unless filled up fully and exactly, as directed in the margin; those directions being so plain, that no difficulty can arise. It is therefore desired that every Petitioner will fill up his, or her, own Petition.

III. Those who apply for their liberty by Supersedeas, or for Sixpences, must send a copy of their cause, or causes, with the Keeper s certificate.

IV. All Letters, Petitions, &c. are to be forwarded to the Letter-Box, No. 7, in Craven-street, Strand, post-paid.

N.B. An attempt to impose on the Society, in any particular, icill prevent the Petitioner s being relieved.

§3* A letter of thanks will be expected from every person discharged: and it is desired that no Bond, Note, Warrant of Attorney, or Obligation whatever, be given to such Plaintiffs as receive a composition from this Society.

Upon

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTORS.

57

Uf )on the proposed composition being accepted by the plaintiff, the gaol-fees are immediately paid, and the debtor set at liberty; with some small donation, according to the number and distress of family, &c.

And, in order to prevent imposition by Swindlers, the Society have found it sometimes necessary to apply to the Plaintiff, for his testimony concerning the debtor, by the following address.

SOCIETY for the Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts.

Craven-Street, Strand, the of 180

a Prisoner at your suit, in the Gaol of for a debt of s. d. hath

petitioned this Society for their charitable assistance; who, being desirous of distributing the benevolence of the Pub lick to every worthy object (and to such only), request to be informed by you, of the manner in which the debt was contracted: whether in the common and ordinary course of business, or on specious pretences; and of such other circumstances, as may enable the Society to judge of the Petitioner's true character, and of his qualification to partake of the public bounty from this Charity. R. Graswell, Sec,

Re pleased to write your answer on the back of this paper; and direct it

To be put in the Letter-Box, No. 7, Craven-Street, .

Strand.

FORM

58

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

FORM OF BEQUESTS OF LEGACIES.

1 A. B. do give and bequeath unto The Treasurer of the SOCIETY for the Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts, known by the name of the Thatched-House Society, in Craven Street, the sum of

to be paid oat of my personal estate, and to be by him applied (with the consent of the Governors thereof) for the sole uses and purposes of that benevolent Institution.

N.B. Any Legacy arising from Lands is void, by the Statute of Mortmain.

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTORS.

59

THE foregoing Rules and Orders, and other documents for carrying into execution the benevolent designs of the publick, have been honoured by general approbation; insomuch that some of our great City companies, executors, and others, trustees for sums annually distributable for the discharge of debtors, have made the Society their Almoners; fully convinced, that, from the long experience acquired, ec it can discharge as many for ONE hundred pounds, as they themselves can for TWO, or more.” The Society, however, are always desirous to effectuate the general directions of such trustees, and to render them an accurate account both of the debtors so liberated, and of the monies so intrusted to their distribution.

TIME has, of course, occasioned some changes in the administration of the Society:but Christian Humanity is still the same: so that, although many of the NOBLE, the GREAT, and the GOOD, have been removed, others have kindly become the friends of the distressed Debtor, in their stead.

Know, there are found, on whose dilated breasts The heaven-descended dove of pity rests:

Souls, that delight with fost’ring smiles to cheer The broken heart, and dry affliction’s tear 5 Pluck the wan Debtor from his noisome den.

And launch him on the cheerful walks of men.”

CUMBERLAND, Epilogue.

60 ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

The present Officers of the Society are,

PRESIDENT,

The Right IIon. the EARL of ROMNEY j

VICE PRESIDENTS, TheMostNoble the MARQUIS of I IERTFORD, Right Hon. EARL RADNOR,

The Right Hon. LORD BARHAM,

The Hon. PHILIP PUSEY;

TREASURER,

JAMES NEILD, Esa.

R. Grasswell, Secretary.

THE business of the Society being reduced to a regular plan, the Committee hold their meetings at No. 7, Craven-street, Strand, the first Wednesday of every month, at noon.

The Committee is composed of all such annual Benefactors as choose to attend:their company, therefore, will at all times be esteemed a kindness to the Society; more especially, if any Gentleman should have any thing to propose, for rendering this Institution more advantageous to the publick, or essentially conducive to its prosperity.

Persons desirous of establishing similar Societies in other parts of the kingdom, may have copies of the modes of business which the Society have adopted, gratis.

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTORS.

6i

THE following stanza from our celebrated SPENSER, is too striking not to claim a record in this place; and is inserted for the noble sentiment which it is calculated to impress on every humane and Christian heart. Speaking of the holy Beadsmen in the House of Mercy, lie says:

“ The fourth appointed by his office was Poore Prisoners to relieve with gratious ayd,

And Captives to redeeme with price of bras.

From Turkes and Sarazins which them had stayd;

And though they faulty were, yet well he wayd.

That God to us forgiveth every howre

Much more than that, why they in bands were layd."

FAERY QUEEN, Book I. Cant. X. Stan. 40.

ACCOUNT

OF THE

VARIOUS PRISONS

OF

ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, and WALES;

TOGETHER WITH THE

PROVISION ARY ALLOWANCE, &c. TO PRISONERS DURING CONFINEMENT:

AS REPORTED TO THE

SOCIETY FOR THE DISCHARGE AND RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTORS,

in APRIL, 1808.

By JAMES NEILD, Es«. Treasurer,

----The horrors of a gloomy Gaol,

Unpitied and unheard, where misery moans;

Where sickness pines; where thirst and hunger burn. And poor misfortune feels the lash of guilt.

Thomson.

(65)

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS,

AND OF

PERSONS CONFINED FOR DEBT.

“ Izvas in prison, and ye came unto me”

Matthew, xxv. ver. 35,

ABINGDON; Berkshire.

Gaoler, James Goldby, a baker, and Serjeant at Mace. Salary, 10l. Fees, none.

Number of Debtors, 18th August 1803, and 31st August 180b, none.

Allowance; now sixpence per day.

Remarks.—This Prison is the old gateway: the ground-floor, about 14 feet square, is for debtors, committed by a Borough process, who are entitled to their sixpences in six weeks. This room has a glazed window, and a fire-place. Upstairs are three small sleeping-rooms, the straw in which, when I was there, was worn to dust. No court-yard. No water. A tub in one corner serves as a privy, and is emptied once a month, for which the Gaoler charges eightpence. It is a fortunate circumstance, that no prisoners are long detained in this wretched place,

E

66

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

ANDOVER; Hampshire.

Gaoler, Thomas Cowley, a shoe-maker by trade. No Salary. But he is likewise Town Crier, Keeper of the Town-hall, and Collector of the Market Tolls; from each of which appointments he derives some casual fee.

Fees; Debtors, 3-s. 4d. No Table.

Surgeons, Messrs. Poore and Co.; they make a Bill.

Number of Debtor

1802, Dec. 28th, . 1 1807, Sept. 25th, . 0 Allowance. Very poor prisoners have sixpence per day; and in extreme cold weather, a fire.

REMARKS.

This Gaol consists of two rooms with boarded floors. That for men is about id feet by 14. The upper room, for women, 14 feet by 12. The Borough allows straw only on bedsteads. No debtors sent here but by process out of Andover 1 own-court. The gaoler’s 1 louse being under the same

O

roof, a bedchamber in it is appropriated to prisoners, if more than the gaol will conveniently accommodate. The court is in front of the house, and separated from the street by a very low paling; so that

the prisoners have 110 use of it.

IN £XGLAXD, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

«7

APPLEBY; Westmoreland.

Gaoler, James Beicsher. Salary, 20l. He is a blacksmith, and his workshop is at the foot of the bridge, nearly opposite the gaol.

Fees; see Table. Garnish, Is.

Chaplain, Rev. James Metcalfe. Salary, 25l. Duty, Sunday afternoon. Prayers and Sermon.

Surgeon, Mr. Bushby; makes a Bill.

Number of Debtors

This Gaol was built by the County. The Earl of Thanet is Hereditary Sheriff, and pays the gaoler his salary. The prison itself is out of the reach of the floods, but the river sometimes overflows part of the court-yard. In the lower part of the prison are four vaulted wards for felons, 14f feet by 13; a small iron-grated window in each, but no chimney:and over them are three good rooms, with fire-places, for debtors. Divine service is performed in the debtors’ day-room. Only one court, 3 2 yards by 22; so that men and women prisoners mi\ promiscuously

Allowance; Debtors, none whatever.

REMARKS.

£ 2

6 S

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

miscuously together in the day-time. There being no kitchen, the prisoners are obliged to dress their victuals under the landing-place of the flight of stone steps, which lead to the debtors’ apartments. A pump in the court-yard. The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are both hung up; as is also the Table subjoined, of which I took a Copy.

“ At the Midsummer General Quarter Session of the Peace holden at Appleby, in and for the said County, on Friday the 24th day of July 1797; the following Table of Fees to be taken by the keeper of His Majesty’s Gaol at Appleby aforesaid, were unanimously agreed to by the Bench of Justices then present, viz,

s. (I.

For the discharge of a debtor . 13 4

For every person committed by a Warrant

of a Justice of the Peace .68

For a Copy of Commitment, when demanded . .10

For a Certificate of Commitment, in order

to obtain a Writ of Habeas Corpus . 2 6

For signing a Certificate, in order to obtain a Supersedeas, or a Rule or Order of Court . 2 6.

For the discharge of a prisoner by Proclamation at the Assizes, or General Quarter Sessions . - - 13 4.”

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES, 6$

AYLESBURY; Buckinghamshire.

The County Gaol.

Gaoler, Ilenry Sheriff'. Salary, for the Gaol 140/.; for the Bridewell 30/.

Fees, abolished. But the Under-Sheriff takes from each debtor 2s. 6d. for his liberate. Chaplain, Rev, Mr. Hopkins. Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Sunday. Salary, 50l. Surgeon, Mr. Hayward. Salary, 35l. for every class of prisoners.

Number of Debtors.

1800, June 2d, 14 1803, Jan. 30th, 12

1801, Aug. lfith. 18 1804, April 15th, 17

1802, Jan. 20th, 8 1805, July 25th, 17

Allowance. To 'debtors and prisoners of every

description, one pound and a half of best wheaten bread every day, and a pint of soup twice a week.

REMARKS.

This Gaol adjoins the back part of the magnificent Shire Hall. In the floor of the Prisoners’ Bar a door opens, through which, by means of a ladder, they are brought up into Court.

The original construction of the buildings was faulty in the extreme; but the Marquis of Buckingham, evev attentive to the interests of this County, having humanely interfered in its prison concerns,

the

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTOR?

70

the loathsome Dungeon has been bricked up, and the gaol has received many and great improvements.

There is but one court-yard for debtors, 54 feci by 26, paved with flag-stones, and a sewer in one comer. Two day-rooms, with fire-places and glazed windows, the largest room 20 feet by 14.

Upstairs are seven good bedrooms, all free wards, fitted up with wooden bedsteads, flock beds, a blanket, and coverlet, at the County expence: one of the smallest rooms is set apart for women debtors. A liberal supply of coals is allowed to the day-rooms, from the lfith of October to the lfitli of April; but, if the weather be very severe, the time is extended by the considerate Magistrates.

The Infirmary is a neat detached building, and consists of two large rooms on the ground-floor; in one of which is an excellent mill, with a pair of mill-stones for grinding corn, and an apparatus for dressing the flour. Above are two spacious rooms

O I

for the sick, with boarded floors, glazed windows, both light and airy; and a small cooking-room, with suitable conveniences for sick persons.

Books are kept in the prison, in which the Visiting Magistrates, Chaplain, and Surgeon, enter their respective reports. There being no stated Chapel, divine service is performed in the Shire-hall. When 1 attended it, January 13th, 1805, thirteen criminals and four debtors received the sacrament, which

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. ? I

is administered four times a year. Many persons also from the town are accustomed to attend upon this occasion; and the money collected is distributed among the criminals. All prisoners are required to attend divine service. A Chapel within the prison, properly partitioned off, so as to exclude the classes from the sight of each other, is an accommodation much wanted. It would afford their exemplary Chaplain an opportunity of selecting, occasionally, passages in scripture the most appropriate to each class of prisoners; of admonishing the profligate, exhorting the thoughtless., and comforting the afflicted.

The alterations proposed are not yet [1807] completed:Cut new work-rooms are built; and it is intended to establish a manufactory, so that the prisoners may be usefully and beneficially employed.

It would likewise be of considerable advantage, if Rules and Orders were made by the Justices, and confirmed by the Judges of Assize, for the direction of the gaoler, and good conduct of the prisoners; and hung up ill conspicuous parts of the prison, agreeably to the Act 32 Geo. II. cap. 28.

At the Summer Assizes prisoners are removed from hence to Buckingham.

The following memorial of a Legacy is hung up m the church, and the donation regularly paid.

Cf William

72

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

“ William Findall, in the year l(>04, gave Gl 135. 4d. to be paid on Midlent Sunday annually, into the hands of the Churchwardens of the parish of Aylesbury for the time being, for ever, out of Summer Leys, in the parish of Weston Turville, for the following purposes; viz.

s. cl

To the Poor of Weston Turville . G 8 To the Prisoners in Aylesbury Gaol 13 4

To a Scavenger, to keep the Church-wavs

clean - 13 4

The remainder, after deducting 15s. Gel. for the Land Tax, is distributed to the widows and distressed poor of the parish of Aylesbury.”

There are likewise other donations which ought to be recorded; viz. The Earl of Chesterfield gives, every Christmas, two pounds of beef, and one shilling in money, to each prisoner. It is distributed by Mr. Curry, his Lordship’s steward at Ey thorp, in the County of Bucks.

The Rev. Mr. Hopkins, for the 27 years during his officiating as Chaplain, has given to the prisoners, every Christmas, one guinea, which is equally distributed amongst them by the Gaoler.

The Act of Parliament for the Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are here conspicuously hung up.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

BANBURY; Oxfordshire.

Town Gaol.

Gaoler, Joseph Wise. Salary, 15Z.

Fees, Debtors and Felons, 13s. 4^.

Surgeon, from the town, when wanted.

Number of Prisoners, 20th August 1803, Debtors, none. Felon, 1 woman.

Allowance. To Debtors, none; to Criminal Prisoners, four-pence a day.

REMARKS.

This Prison was built, as appears by the date, in I70G. It has two dark and offensive rooms below; one of which is called The Gaol, the other The Bridewell. Straw upon the floor to sleep on- The debtors confined here are by process issuing out of the Borough court.

In the Keeper’s house there is a room abovestairs, for such debtors as can pay 2s. 6d. per week. No court-yard; but one might be made from the garden behind the house. No water accessible to the prisoners. No employment for them. Neither the Act for the Preservation of Health, nor Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, hung up. No Rules and Orders. The whole Prison dirty.

74

account or Prisons for debtors

BATH City Gaol.

Gaoler, George Griffin; a Sheriff’s Officer*.

Salary, 30l. Fees, 7s. Sd. No Table. Chaplain (first appointment), Rev. Mr. Marshall* Salary, 20l.

Duty; no stated time. At my visit in 180G, it was ??iore than two months since divine service had been performed.

Surgeon (first appointment), Mr. Kitsoiu Salary, 20l.

Number of Debtors.

1800, March 30th, . 1 I 1803, Oct. 7th, . 1

1801, Dec. 22d, . 2 I lSod, Sept. 19th, . 2 Allowance; none whatever.

REMARKS.

This Prison is situated in Grove-street, to which the ascent is by a fine flight of stone steps. On the entrance-floor are the keeper’s apartments. Above are three stories, five good-sized rooms on each; two of which are used by the keeper, the rest for debtors. One bed in a room, for which the prisoner pays 3s* dd. per week. Two rooms on the second story are free icards; one for men, the other

* No Keeper of a prison should be a Sheriff’s Officer. He must frequently be from home, and his business is incompatible with the duty of a Gaoler.

for

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

-for women; to which the Corporation allows loose •straw on the floor. The City sends coals for the prison. There is no Chapel: divine service (when performed) is in a front room, ] 7 feet by 14, one half of it taken np by a large barrack-bedstead. Previous to rny visit 1803, there had been no divine service for many years; though at one of my visits there were 31 prisoners. The Police of this City appears to be well regulated in -every respect, except its prison. The Act for the Preservation of Health not hung up; but there is painted on a board, (C No Strong Liquors admitted, under the penalty of ten pounds, or three months <!e imprisonment.” There is a small court, 52 feet long and 16* feet wide, for debtors and petty offenders, with a passage to the felons' court. Mrs. Dickenson, who resides at Bath, has sent every year, for the last seven years, at Christmas, Easter, and Whitsuntide, one pound and a half of meat, a halfquartern loaf, and potatoes, to every prisoner. Debtors are sent here from the Court of Bequests for Bath, and its Liberties, the parish of JValcoi, the several parishes and places in the Hundreds of Bath-forum and JVellow, the Liberties of Hampton, Cla-verton, Boston and Amir ill, all in Somersetshire; which Court takes cognizance of ail debts not exceeding ten pounds. The imprisonment for debts above five pounds, is 200 days \

7$ ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTOR

BEAUMARIS; Isle of Anglesey The County Gaol.

Gaoler, heretofore William Hopson, now Thomas Ashurst.

Salary, in 1802, was Ten Pounds; now 5/.

from the Sheriff, and for the Bridewell 30/. Fees, Debtors 7s. Felons 13s. 4d. No Table; see the Note in p. 78.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Thomas.

Salary, heretofore 101, now 20/.

Duty, at my visit, in 1803, divine service had been discontinued for two years; but the salary having increased, as above, there are Prayers and a Sermon once a week.

Surgeon, till lately, Mr. Sparrow:but since his death none has yet been regularly appointed. When a Surgeon is wanted, he is sent by the town, and makes his bill.

Number of Debtors.

1800, April 24th, . 4 I 1803, Sept. 15th, . 3 1802, Jan. 26th, . 5 I 180G, Nov. 13th, . 1

Allowance; four-pence a day.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES, 77

REMARKS.

This Gaol is also the County Bridewell. It stands on the strait, or narrow channel, called Tht Menai, and near the old castle fortified by-Edward I.

For Debtors here is a court-yard, an oblong square, of about 4S feet by 39; and on the second sjtory they have six good-sized sleeping-rooms, with fire-places and glazed windows; for which, if the debtor brings his own bed, he pays nothing: otherwise straw, in lieu of bedding, is furnished by the County; but if the keeper furnishes a bed, the charge is 2s. per week.

On the ground-floor there is a common kitchen, >vith a fire-place, and a pantry. There being no chapel, divine service is performed in the keeper’s parlour. The window of this room commands the debtors’ part of the prison; but of the felon’s part there is no view whatever, except through the iron-palisaded gate hereafter mentioned.

The Felons’ court-yard is about the same size as the debtors’; a day-room with a fire-place, and five sleeping-cells on the ground-floor, 8 feet inches by 7 feet two, and 7 feet 9 inches high. These have arched roofs, with brick floors, and are dark, damp, and insecure; supplied with plank bedsteads, chaff in ticking beds, two blankets, and a rug.

A wall

75

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

A wall, intended as a separation, divides the* debtors’ court-yard from that of the felons; but a constant communication is kept up, by means of two iron-palisaded gates, through one of which you must pass to the felons’ part of the gaol. Tills however is insecure, a felon having made his escape about three weeks before my visit in 1803. At that period, the court-yards, day-rooms, pantry, and common kitchen, had all of them mud-floors, which have since been paved with flag-stone.

For the conveyance of Transports the Gaoler makes a bill. I remember he told me, that the whole of his fees in 1800 amounted only to 121. 13$. 10d. so that, his salary included, he had no more than 47^. 10iL to maintain himself,

and support a wife and seven children; adding, that Lord Bulkeley humanely employed him at times amongst his labourers, or he must be in a state bordering on starvation

This Prison is said to be whitewashed once in two or three years; but the good effects of that wholesome process are destroyed, as every chimney in the place is smoky.

* It is but an act of humanity and common justice to observe, that every where in Wales, in Cornwall, and some nearer parts of England, the salaries of Gaol-keepers are very small, arul inadequate to the faithful discharge of so important a trust.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 79

No water, but what the Gaoler fetches from a fine spring 96 yards distant, and then pours into a square box lined with lead, which holds about 22 gallons:a task easily to be prevented, as the water might be laid on at a small expence.

No fuel allowed the prisoners:no separate courtyard, day-room, or kitchen, for women-debtors, who therefore must mix with the Bridewell prisoners:no mops, brooms, pails, towels, or soap, to keep the prisoners or their prison clean; so that I was not surprized at finding the gaol dirty.

Neither the Act for preserving the Health of Prisoners, nor the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors hung up. No Magistrate, the keeper said, had been within side the Gaol for seven years.

The Keeper told me in 1803, that the Under-Sheriff had reduced his salary as Gaoler to Five Pounds. By the Statute of 24 Geo. III. it is clearly expressed, “that the Justices of the Peace are to order and direct the salaries to be paid out of the County-rate, by the Treasurer of such County.”

so

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS TOR DEBTORS

BEDFORD.

The County Gaol.

Gaoler, Jolm-Moore Howard. Salary, 100l. and for the House of Correction QOL Fees, Debtors 13s. 4d.

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Thomas Cave.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Sunday, ami Prayers on Thursday *

Salary, 40l.

Surgeon, Mr. Champion.

Salary, for Debtors, Felons, and House of Correction, 40/.

Number of Debtors.

1801, August 19th, 5 180G, July 14th, . ll 1802, Jan. 26’th, 4 1807, Sept. 1st, ... 4

Allowance. Debtors, two quartern loaves per week each, sent from the baker’s, which I have always found full weight.

REMARKS.

This Gaol was first inhabited June 1J, 1801, and stands in a good situation, being just out of the town. The entrance to the prison is the turnkey’s

house

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

81

house, a handsome stone building, with a sitting-room on one side; and on the other a warm and cold bath, with an oven to purify infected or offensive clothes. Upstairs is the turnkey’s sleeping-room, and another in which the County-clothing is put on, and that of the prisoners ticketed and hung by, till discharged. Here is likewise a reception-cell for the newly-arrived prisoner, till he is examined as to his health, previous to admission into the interior. At the top of the building is the flat roof, the place of execution.

After passing through the lodge, the way to the keeper’s house is through a small garden, of 32 feet in length. The Keeper resides in the centre of the prison. On the ground-floor are his parlour, kitchen, and pantry; and behind them an open space, called The Hall, in which I now found both the Act for the Preservation of Health, and the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, conspicuously painted on a board, and hung up; with weights andscale s likewise, for the use of the prison. Into this Hall three lobbies open, of five feet wide: over the entrance-gate of one is inscribed in stone, “ Men Felons and Convicts of a second, “ Women Felons, and Debtors and of the third, “ House of Correction.”

The above three lobbies contain two day-rcoms each, which open into six court-yards for the several

F classes;

S3

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DFr>TOR3 .

classes; one day-room for men, the other for women; having glazed windows and fire-places, to which coals are allowed during the six winter months:they are fitted up with benches and cupboards for provisions; and cooking utensils, towels, &c. are very considerately provided by the magistrates. In each lobby there are four working-cells.

Criminals are here employed in beating hemp, but receive no part of their earnings. Debtors ^sometimes procure employment from without, and have all they earn.

J

Over the Hall is a room of the same size, in which the articles of County-clothing are deposited:also three lobbies, like those below; two for criminal prisoners and the third has six sleeping-rooms for poor debtors, - two of which rooms are of ] 3 feet by 8, and the other four 10 feet by 8, having fire-places and glazed windows* and fitted up with iron-frame bedsteads sacking bottoms, straw in canvas bed, blanket, and rug, furnished gratis at the County’s expence.

* In the course of the ensuing Work, the Reader \vi!l repeatedly facet with bedsteads of this, and other descriptions. The present sort needs no explanation:but it may be proper to note, that barrack bedsteads (or beds) are low stages of boards, raised on the floor, and made more or less sloping from the wall towards the middle of the room 3 and used in the barracks for soldiers. Crib bedsteads take the name from their cradle form.

For

IN ENGLAND, . SCOTLAND, AND HALES.

83>

For those who can pay, here are rooms of better accommodation, which are supplied by the keeper at 2s. 6d. a single bed per week; or, if two sleep together, at 2s. weekly each. If the debtor finds his own bedding and sheets, he pays Is. Qd. per week.

The Chapel is in the centre, on the second, of attic story, where the prisoners are properly seated according to their respective classes; and all, under pain t>f chastisement, are required not only to attend divine service, unless prevented by illness, but to deport themselves reverently there. Two rooms are set apart for infirmaries, with boarded floors, 14 feet 8 inches by 10 feet 6‘, and Q feet 8 inches high; also with fire-places and glazed windows. At the top of the building is an alarm-bell. The before-mentioned six court-yards for the different classes are, upon an average, 54 feet by 30, with open wood palisades, about 17 feet distant from the boundary wall; but only one of them is appropriated to men and women debtors.

There is a pump in every court-yard, and the whole prison well supplied with .water, and l^ept very clean.

S4

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DERTORS

BERWICK; Town and County Gaol.

Gaoler, George Richardson; Salary, 40l.

He lives distant, and keeps a public house. Fees; freemen, none; non-freemen, 2s. 6d.

Chaplain, none. Surgeon, none:if the parish surgeon attends, he is paid by the Treasurer of the Corporation.

Number of Debtors.

1801, Nov. 9th, ... l 1802, Sept. 7th, ... 3

Allowance. At a Guild, held Jan. 18th, 1800, it was agreed (on account of the dearness of provisions) that every prisoner, being a freeman, should have nine-pence yer day, and every non-freeman six-pence.

Remarks. This gaol is over one end of the grand Town-hall. For debtors there are three rooms, all free wards, two with fire-places, to which the town allows coals; and one bed is furnished by the Corporation. No court-yard; but the Long Room, into which the debtors’ apartments open, has on each side four lift-up sash windows; and they are also permitted to walk on the leaden roof. No water: it is carried up by the beadle, and put into a cistern daily; No employment.

IN' ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

BEVERLY HALL GARTH; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, IVm. Lundie; Salary, none. Fees, 4s. id. Debtors; 1802, Aug. 25th, none. Allowance, none.

Remarks. The Hall Garth, for Debtors, in the Liberty of St. John of Beverley, is a Manor-gaol, or Court Baron, held by Lord Yarborough. Over the hall it has live rooms (lG feet by 10); two have fireplaces, some of them brick, and the rest boarded floors. Debtors pay 1a. 3<Y. each per week for a bed furnished by the keeper. No court. There are said to be 113 towns, or parts of towns, within this Liberty of St. John. The keeper, together with the prison, has about three acres of ground, for which he pays 12/. a year. He told me “ he was going to leave it, as all he had to depend on was selling a little ale, and being in a bye place out of the town, he was a great loser. The reason, ” he said, “ that he had 110 prisoners was, that the Steward of the Court was only an Attorney, and could not act without a barrister, which was too expensive, so that his gaol was neglected. That when he first came there, Mr. Keatniff, barrister, was chief-steward, and Air. Ramsay, attorney at law, deputy steward; that at that time he had many prisoners, and was doing very well; but Mr. BeatnifT being dead, and Mr. Hall, the present chief-steward, not being a barrister, he very seldom had any prisoners.”

86

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

BEVERLY; Town and Liberty GaoL

Gaoler, Timothy Lundic, Serjeant at Mace. Salary, 14l. 45. Fees, 4<$. 4d.

Surgeon, from the town, if wanted.

Number of Debtors 1802, August 26th . 0

Allowance to certificated debtors, 6d. a day.

REMARKS.

For debtors here are three rooms; one below, furnished by the Gaoler, at 2.?. 6d. per week; and a small one, where, if the debtor finds his own bed, he pays 6d. a week: the third room is upstairs, where the Keeper furnishes a bed at Is. %d. per week. Here is one small court-yard for all descriptions of prisoners, with a work-shed in it, but no water; the Gaoler fetches it from over the way. A Table of Fees payable to the Attorneys and Clerk of the Court, and signed by the Mayor, Recorder, and Aldermen, is hung up; and likewise a Table of the Antlent Customs. Debtors are committed to this prison by the Court of Requests, as well as those prosecuted in the Court of King's Bench, and in the Town court. Neither the fAct for preserving Health, nor the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, hung up. The whole prison dirty.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

* 7

BIRMINGHAM; Warwickshire.

The Court Prison.

Keeper, John Downes.

Salary, none.

Surgeon, from the Workhouse, as wanted.

O ? J

AlloAvance, none whatever at my two former visits; but in Nov. 1805, I was informed that poor prisoners had an allowance of three pence per day, from their respective parishes.

This receptacle for Debtors is situate in Philip-street :-a dark dirty dungeon, about 3 yards and half square, led down to by seven steps, to receive men and women; and one sleeping-room above it, about 12 feet square, with straw upon the floor. It is in a little back court-yard, 13 feet 10 inches by 13 feet, belonging to the Keepers house. There are three other rooms, to which he furnishes beds for those

, n __

Number of Debtors

whe

ss

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

who can pay 2.9. per week. The dungeon is used as a day-room, on account of the little court-yard; and I was informed, there have frequently been four, and, at one time, fifteen prisoners in it!

Strange as it may appear, debtors in this place are not allowed, to work; which seems cruel, inasmuch as their confinement may last forty days.

The Keeper told me, that were he to permit a debtor to work, he should make himself liable to pay both debt and costs. This reminds me of Mr. Howard’s remark, “ that when he visited this Gaol in the year 1782, the Keeper informed him, he had been obliged to pay a shoe-maker’s debt of sixteen or seventeen shillings, and costs, for permitting him to Jinish a piece of work, which the man had begun before his confinement

It has been well said, by a Biographer of my revered predecessor, that we may hope his plans will terminate in such general regulations, as to make judicial confinement the means of amendment in morals, and of acquiring habits of industry; whilst the few criminals, who may be too depraved for amendment, will be compelled to become beneficial by their labours, and suffer nothing more than that restraint which is needful for society, and that exert ion which they ought never to have abandoned.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 8f)

BODMIN; Cornwall.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, James Chappie. Salary 30/. with Fees as per Table: and if both together do not amount to 100Z. the County liberally makes good the deficiency *.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Morgan.

Duty; Prayers and Sermon every Sunday. Salary, 50l.

Surgeon, Mr. Hamley.

Salary 30Z. for debtors and felons.

pi801, November 3d, 14

Number of Debtors < 1803, October 10th, 12

LlSOS, September 30th, 8

Allowance, to -such debtors as are poor, and petition the Magistrates, one pound eleven ounces of bread daily, made of wheat and barley meal, in equal proportions; half a pouf d of beef on Sundays, and coals for all the prison.

* The active and ingenious Keeper employs the prisoners at his own risk of sale; and the considerate Magistrates allow him that [ortion of earnings which was formerly paid to the County.

90

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

REMARKS.

This Gao^ buiiCon a fine eminence, at a little distance from the town, fronts the South; and the steepness of the ground appears to be of advantage in many points, by placing the several buildings above each other, and thereby giving to ail a full sun, and fresh air. A copious stream of excellent water is brought in above the Gaoler's house, distributed through every ward, to supply the baths, and other uses, and ultimately carried off by the sewers. The Prison was first inhabited in June 177, 9. The Gaoler’s house, in the centre, has a turret, with an alarm bell and clock, and four good rooms well-furnished, for Master’s-side debtors, who pay as per Table. They have likewise a very neat semicircular garden on the North side of the Keeper’s house, where they take the air. For the common-side debtors, there are in the prison nine small sleeping-rooms, 10 feet by 7, and 8 feet 9 inches high, for which they pay as per Table, Second Class. A court-yard 54 feet by 20, with arcades 24 feet by 14; and two day-rooms, one 30 feet by 14, the other 20 feet by 12, with a fire-place in each; an oven, benches and stools to sit upon, with cupboards, and oilier conveniences for frugal cookery, and for which the considerate Magistrates allow’ coals.

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES,

I) I

The Chapel is in the centre-building, Po feet, by 20:the criminal prisoners seated below, where the women are out of sight of the men. The debtors and gaoler s family occupy the galleries:all are required to attend divine service:their behaviour at my several visits was orderly and devout, and the duty impressively performed by the worthy Chaplain. Their intelligent Keeper furnishes employment to all who are willing to work, by which many have been enabled to send relief to their families; and others, by learning to saw timber and stone, have created a new source for their industry, when discharged. The Surgeon is humane, and attentive in the discharge of his duty. The prison is frequently visited by the Magistrates, and very clean. It is worthy of remark, that there have been but fifteen deaths in 27 years, out of 3877 prisoners; .strong proofs of a healthy situation, and good government.

Table of Fees and Rates to he taken by the Gaoler and Turnkeys at BODMIN.

From Debtors.

first Class-. I. s.

Every Debtor voluntarily going into the Master s Ward, to pay the Keeper at Entrance . 0 3 4

To the Turnkeys Old

To Keeper at Discharge > O 6 8

To

.92 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

I. s. a.

To the Turnkeys 0 2 6

Every Debtor lodging in the Master's

house, a bed to himself, per week 0 o 6

Two such Debtors in a bed, each 0 1 3

Every Debtor in the Master’s house bringing his own bed, for lodging-room 0 1 3

Second Class.

Every Debtor lodged over the Arcades,

to the Keeper at entrance 0 o 6

To Turnkeys 0 1 0

To Keeper at discharge 0 5 0

To Turnkeys 0 2 0

Every such Debtor over the Arcades

lodged in the Keeper’s bed, and room

to himself, per week 0 1 6

Two such Debtors in a bed, each per week 0 0 0

Common Debtors having only straw.

mattress, or their own bed, to Keeper

at discharge 0 6 0

To Turnkeys 0 2 X)

Debtors in general.

For signing every certificate to obtain a

Supersedeas, or Rule and Order of

Court 0 1 6

For copy of SherifTsWarrant, if demanded 0 1 0

For registering any Declaration against

a Prisoner . < D 1 0

F or

IN' ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 93

/. S. d.

Fordischargeof every Debtor on composition, or by Act of Insolvency, or for want of prosecution (of which 2s. 5 d. is to he the Turnkey’s fee) except where otherwise directed by Statute O 12 6

Fee from every such Debtorcharged with more actions than one, not exceeding tive, (of which 10d. is to betheTurn-key’s fee,) on each ., O 6 O

Epiphany Sessions, held at Lostwithiel the 15th January, 17S9, for the County of Cornwall, the above List of Fees was produced, examined, and approved of, by us, His Majesty’s Justices of the Peace for the said County,

Thomas Graham,

John Coryton,

H. Hawkins Tremayne.

We the Judges of Assize on the Western Circuit, have perused and examined the above List of Fees; and do approve and confirm the same. Dated 25th March, J ‘~S9.

W. H. ASHURST, F. BULLER.

se Rules

94

• ACCOUNT or PRISONS FOR DEBTORS I

cc Rules and Orders.

i if)-

I. No Garnish, or other exactions at entrance., permitted to be taken.

II. No abuse, ill-treatment, or affray, to be suffered between the prisoners: if such do happen, the actors and abettors to be punished at the discretion of the Head Gaoler, by closer confinement, harder labour, or reduced allowance.

III. All sorts of games for money or liquors, are strictly prohibited, and must be prevented; and innocent exercises, and such as are conducive to health, only to be allowed.

IV. Master, or principal debtors of property, are to be lodged at their own request and choice, in the Keeper’s house, paying the established rates, and no more, for rooms, beds, and diet#. Ordinary debtors are to be lodged over the arcades, in beds of the Keeper’s, or their own, according to their choice or ability of paying the established rates.”

I beg leave here to pay a tribute of respect to the memory of my learned friend Dr. Hall, the much-lamented physician of this town. At my first visit to the prison, I found this excellent man visiting and gratuitously prescribing for the sick, which I was informed had been his constant practice; and it continued till September 1806‘, when an accident deprived society of one of its most useful members.

* Men 12 j. per week j women Si ', per week,

IN ENGLAND^ SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

9$

BOROUGH COMPTER; Southwark.

Keeper, Sir IVatkin Lewes, Knt. and Alderman, Bailiff of the Borough; appointed by the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen.

Deputy, John Bullecant, Sheriff's Officer for

Surry. No Salary.

J - /

Fees, Debtors, 7s. Gd. Felons, see Table. Garnish, 2s. No Chaplain nor Surgeon.

Number of Debtors.

1801, Sept. 14th, 9 1804, Dec. 8th, S

1802, Feb. 9th, , 5 1805, Dec. loth, 5

1803, Jan. 2d, 8 1806, May 28 th, 7

Allowance to Debtors, a two-penny loaf* per day from the City; and every eight weeks, sixty-five penny loaves, from Mrs. Margaret Symcott's Gift, more commonly known as Eleanor Gwymis Legacy; a memorial whereof is fixed up in the prison. Also twenty shillings every Christmas from tile Archbishop of Canterbury.

f The weight of this loaf, on the 10th March 1801, was fir ounces, in August 1783, the two-penny loaf weighed twenty-one ounces.—The allowance of bread ought everywhere, and at all tim-s, to be in weight; not according to its casual value in money, because of the frequent variation of price ia this very iiuu.xaut jrticie.

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

96

REMARKS.

The Borough Compter (vulgarly called The Clink) is under the jurisdiction of the Bailiff of Southwark, but controulable by the City of London; and extends its influence over five parishes.

Debtors have one small court-yard, about 19 feet square. On the ground-floor, on the right hand, is the women’s day and sleeping room, 24 feet by 9 feet G inches. On the left hand is another, intended for men, 41 feet by 10; but the floor of this room being only of earth or mud, and unfit to sleep on, no use has been made of it for many years; so that the men and women associate promiscuously together in the women's apartments, during the day time.

Above stairs are two rooms of the same size as the former; and these, in 1801, were in good repair. All these rooms have fire-places; but no coals are allowed; no kettles or saucepans to cook provisions; no mops, brooms, or pails, to keep the gaol clean; no bedsteads, bedding, nor even straw to lie upon ! Hence the debtors are obliged every night to sleep in their clothes upon the dirty boards.

All who are arrested by process issuing out of the Borough Court, are sent to this miserable prison; and in the house there are two rooms, of about 8 feet square, for such as can pay 3</. per

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 97

night for a bed. The following is a list of commitments hither, for six years, from 1801 to 180fi, inclusive:In 1801, —180. In 1802, —lbO. In

1803, —I/O. In 1804, -125. In 1805, -131. In 180G, —147.

The extreme distress and wretchedness which I had often witnessed in this place, particularly in the years 1801, 1802, 1803, and 1804, induced me, at length, to address the Lord Mayor by letter, of which the subjoined is a transcript:

<c MY LORD, Chelsea, nth December, 1804.

u I beg pardon for the liberty I take in addressing myself to your Lordship; but, when the importance of the subject, and the object it has in view, are considered, they will, I trust, plead excuse. It is now more than three years since I made my first report to the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen, of the state of the Borough Compter. A Committee was appointed to inspect it. The windows were repaired and glazed:it was white-washed, and swept. This being all the improvement it has received, permit me to trespass on your Lordship’s patience, and that of the Honourable Court, whilst I describe its present state.

(C Sir Watkin Lewes, as Bailiff of the Borough, is,

I presume, the Keeper. His Deputy, John Bul-levant, has no salary. This prison extends its juris-v G diction

ACCOUNT OK PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

diction over five parishes. Men and women debtors have one small court-yard, about 1, Q feet square, and they appear to me at all times to associate together. They have’nothing but the dirty boards to sleep upon. No bedding, nor even straw allowed. No fire, even in this cold and damp season. No medical assistance in sickness. No religious attentions whatever. The few remaining boards in the men-debtors’ room (mentioned in my former report) are now taken away, as are the joists on which they were laid. The room is useless; the floor is earth. Neither mops, brooms, or pails are allowed to keep the Prison clean. Soap and tow els are not afforded to the prisoner: so that a man may, for a debt of one guinea, remain in this wretched place forty days, without once taking olf his clothes, or washing his hands and face.

et Permit me now, my Lord, to submit to your consideration the Allowance to this prison. It is a two-penny loaf a day:weight, 1 Oth March, 1801, six ounces ! and yth December, 1804, eight ounces. This scanty provision, w ithout any nutritious liquor, only w ater, is not sufficient to support the cravings of nature; and the prisoner at his discharge may be fit for an hospital, but he cannot be fit for labour. The County of Middlesex allow s to prisoners of this description, in Cold Path Fields, a loaf of bread of one pound weight every day, a pint of gruel every

morning,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 99

looming, a quart of broth made of rice and oatmeal for dinner, and every other day six ounces of meat for dinner, instead of broth. They have a common room, with a fire-place, and a peck of coals per day; a sleeping-cell 7 feet by 5f, with plank bedsteads, straw in ticking beds, a blanket, and a rug. What a contrast ! what shall I say to a system still continued, though respectfully submitted to the Court more than three years ago ? I am informed there has been no resident Alderman in this ward for many years, which may in some measure account for the total neglect of this miserable place: The

6*5 penny loaves every eight weeks (from Mrs. Symcotfs gift) might, if distributed at proper periods, according to the number of debtors, be of real service; but they are sent all at one time; and the late Keeper informed me, when there was only one debtor, he had the whole, and sold them.

“ No enquiry ever appears to be made about the state of this prison, and there being no resident Magistrate, the cries of the miserable never reachThat Court, where distress seldom supplicates in vain. The annual donation of 20s. by the Archbishop of Canterbury, is distributed in the same inconsiderate manner as the bread. Liberality, Benevolence, and Humanity, are the characteristics of the City, and on all public occasions she extends them in a manner worthy the first city in the world. The g 2 Gaols

100 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Gaols of Newgate, Ludgate, Giltspur-street, and Poultry, are ample partakers of its bounty, whilst the miserable one I have been describing, situate in Surry, has no claim to the provision made by that liberal County. Forgot by the City; out of reach of being heard; it seems a wretched cast-off ', and may be numbered among the worst prisons in the Kingdom. At my visits the 7th and 8th of this month (Dec. 1804) the number of prisoners, eight; viz. 6 men, 2 women; their condition ragged and dirty, starving, and (except one) without employ. In this extremity 2s. garnish is exacted from every new comer; That this picture is not overcharged, I am ready to prove, and will attend the Court of Aldermen any time they please to appoint, to interrogate the Keeper as to facts. Mr. Alderman Combe, when Lord Mayor, honoured my remarks on the Poultry Compter with the most prompt and effectual relief; and I humbly hope, my Lord, for a like exertion of your high authority, and for the exercise of a like compassion towards the unhappy objects of it. I have the honour to be, with great respect, my Lord, your Lordship’s most obedient and faithful humble servant, James Neild.”

“ To the Right Honourable Peter Perchurd, Esq. Lord Mayor.”

To the above letter I had not the honour of receiving any answer.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 101

Benevolence, however, occasionally, though very rarely, has sometimes found its way to these dreary walls. At Easter 1804, two legs and two shins of beef were sent. On the 15th of March, 1805, there were three men and one woman prisoners:the woman was extremely ill of a bloody flux, and the poor men had raised eighteen pence amongst them, and bought a truss of straw, of which they had given their sick associate a large portion. This act of sympathy pleased me much:the deputy-keeper too had lent her an old blanket, and humanely permitted her to come into his house, during the day; by which means, and with some other charitable assistance, she recovered.

On the pth December, 1805, two legs and two shins of beef were sent, the number of prisoners being four\ and also, the same year, two pair of blankets, and two rugs. On the 25th March, 180(), were sent three legs of beef, the number of prisoners at that time eleven. At my visit on the 28th, I found here five men-debtors, who had with them in the prison three wives and nine children; and that some humane gentleman had sent them eight small flock beds, and he also the same year liberated eight prisoners. On the 28th May, 180G, there were seven debtors, who had with them in prison five infant children.

The

102 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

The felons’ court-yard is about 14 feet and a half by 11 feet, and separated from the debtors by a brick wall. Their day-apartment, called the Stone Room> of 17 feet by 12, has a fire-place, but no coals are- allowed. Over this is their sleeping room, lb feet by 14 '• no bedding, nor straw.

Criminals are confined here only for a night or two, till they are fully committed.

The following Table is hung up in the house:

“ A Table of Fees To he taken by the Keeper of the Borough Compter.

s. cl.

For the admission of every Prisoner for felony, trespass, assault, or other misdemeanour . 114

For every night’s lodging . .06

To the Turnkey, for the admission of

every such prisoner . 1 0

For every person brought by any peace officer for safe custody, until hearing can be had before a magistrate . 2 0

“And, for the better information of such prisoners, the Court doth further order and direct, that a Table of the said Fees be fixed up in the most conspicuous part of the said prison, for the perusal and inspection of the said prisoners, and others resorting to the said gaol.

“ By the Court, “ Man.”

When

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

m

When any provisions are sent in here for the debtors, the deputy-keepers wife, Mrs. Bullevant, kindly lends them vessels for cooking them.

. I have been assured that the head keeper had not visited this prison for eighteen months together.

The lowest sum for which I have seen any record of commitment to the Borough Clink was one .shilling and seven pence; the costs, three shillings and two pence:But the late under-keeper, Mr. Frost, told me there had been an instance of one person committed for seven, pence !

Ill the year 17855 the fees and expences, on a debt of one shilling only, were 15.V. 1 id. for the payment of which the debtor might remain in prison for life, associated with felons, and other criminals of every description. But, by the persevering representations of The Society for the Discharge and Belief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts, ” the fees for Court-of-Conscience debtors have loner been every where abolished; ex-

o %>

pences are lessened; imprisonment limited; and, I wish I could add, an entire separation of such prisoners from felons. But, in almost every County Bridewell, or Mouse of Correction, I find the men-debtors associated with criminal prisoners; and women debtors consigned to promiscuous mixture with the most lewd and depraved of their sex !

104

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

BOSTON TOWN GAOL; Lincolnshire.

Gaoler, William Value. Salary, 31 /.

Chaplain, none. Surgeon, if wanted, ordered by the Mayor. Allowance, none.

REMARKS.

This wretched Gaol, which is also the Bridewell, seems to have been made under the arches of an old monastery, on the ground-floor of which are two damp offensive rooms, 14 feet square, with a privy. Adjoining to the rooms above for female criminal prisoners, are two rooms for debtors, who are sent here from the Court of Requests for the Borough of Boston, Skirbeck Quarter, and parishes of Boston and Skirbeck. No thorough air. The debtor who was confined here, complained of excessive heat: he appeared to be in the last stage of a consumption; and, being a medical man, said it was owing to want of air. Debt, one guinea ! Commitment, 40 days, which were nearly expired when I was there. No water; the Keeper fetches what he wants for his own use from the adjoining street. No court-yard. It did not appear ever to have been whitewashed:and its filthy state did not surprize me when I considered the communication with the street. August lltli, 1802, debtor, one.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 105

BRADFORD; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, William Lee. Salary, 20l.

Surgeon, if wanted, sent for from the town.

Number of Debtors, Oct. 13th 1805, - - 2.

Allowance. Four-pence a day, if petitioned for, at the discretion of the Commissioners.

REMARKS.

This Prison receives debtors from the Court of Requests for Halifax, Bradford, &c. It is situate on an eminence, called the North Wing, and was first inhabited in the year 1797. The Gaol stands on the left of the keeper’s house, and consists of a court-yard for men, of about 34, feet by lb, which has a sewer in it.

On the ground-floor are two rooms, about 20 feet square, with fire-places and glazed windows; and above them is a room set apart for the sick, about 14 feet square, accommodated in the same manner.

The women have a separate court-yard, 23 feet by 17, with a sewer; also a sleeping-room 14 feet square, with fire-place and glazed window.

To all these rooms the keeper furnishes beds, at Is. per week each; but if the prisoner finds his own bed, he pays nothing. No fuel nor bedding is allowed by the town; nor any employment furnished. The Act for Preservation of Health, and the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, not hung up.

10G‘ ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

BRECON; South Wales.

County Gaol and Bridewell.

Gaoler, Thomas Gittins. Salary 10 7, /. out of which he provides a turnkey, to whom he pays 261.

Fees; as per Table.

Chaplain, Rev. John Jones.

Duty, Prayers on Thursday, and Sunday; and once a month a Sermon. Salary, 201.

Surgeon, Mr. Williams:Salary 261. $s. for felons only.

Number of Debtors.

ISOO, March 31st, - 6 1803, Sept, / th, - 3

] S02, Jan. 28th, - 7 I'lSofi, Sept, 12th, - 0

Allowance; one pound and half of bread per day.

REMARKS.

This Gaol and Bridewell was finished in 17S2; but since my visit in 1803, has undergone many improvements. There is now a boundary wall of 51 yards by 3/, and the Gaol is in the centre of the area. The ascent to the Keepers house is by a flight of steps, and his apartments are on the ground-floor:on the right of his kitchen is the infirmary-room, and on the left a room for female debtors. Men debtors have a court-yard, with a pump and a sewer in it, a large day-room with a fire-place and glazed windows; and on each side a large sleeping-room (which is a free ward) with a fire-place and glazed

. fk

windows.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 107

windows. Upstairs are four sleeping-rooms with glazed windows, and fire-places in two of them. If the debtor brings his own bed, he pays nothing; if the Keeper furnishes one, 2s. 6V/. a week.

Table of Fees, established 13th March 1805.

I. s. d.

(c For entering of every fresh Action or Process, whereon a Prisoner shall or ' may be charged 0^6

For the Turnkey, or Under Turnkey, on

each fresh Action 0 10

For the entering of the Discharge, or for

the Discharge of every Prisoner O 7 0

To the Turnkey, for the Discharge of every

Prisoner . 0 10

For the receiving and entering every Declaration against a Prisoner in custody 0 2 0

To the Turnkey on every Declaration O O 6‘

For a Certificate for want of a Declaration,

in order to take out Writ of Supersedeas 0 3 6

For a Copy of the Warrant or Commitment against each Prisoner . 0 10

Edward Morgan, Chairman. Walter Jeffreys.

Penry Williams.

Approved, George Hardinge,

Abel Moysey,

Justices of the Great Sessions of the Counties, &c, ”

108 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

BRECON, Town Gaol.

Gaoler, David Morgan, Serjeant at Mace, and a shoemaker. Salary, 5/. Fees, 3s. 6d. Chaplain, none. Surgeon, if wanted, from the Borough.

Remarks. Upstairs were four rooms for debtors, who furnish their own beds, or pay the Keeper Is. per week for the use of one. At my visit 12th September, 1806, the keeper told, me that the allowance was now one pound and a half of bread per day; and that his salary had been discontinued two years. There are only two rooms now for debtors, who are committed by process issuing out of the Borough-court, from Is. to any amount. Prisoners, none.

BRIDGEWATER; Somersetshire.

Samuel Slocomh, Gaoler:Salary, none. Fees, 3s. 4d. Surgeon, from the town, when wanted. Allowance, none.

This Gaol is the Cross-keys public-house, situate near the bridge, down a long narrow passage at the end of the Council-room. A small court-yard; and the Keeper furnishes beds to those who can pay Is. or Is. 6d. per week. Debtors are sent here by process issuing out of the Borough-court, to any amount. Debtors, October 5th, 1803* and Sept. 2d, 1806, none.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 10$

BRISTOL.

City and County Gaol.

Gaoler, William Humphries.

Salary, 200l. and 21, a year gown-money.

Fees, first action, 6s. Sd.; second, and every other, 3<y. 4d.; a London action, $)s.

Chaplain, Rev..Mr. Day.

Duty, Sermon every Sunday; and Prayers on Wednesday and Friday. Salary 351. Surgeon, Mr. Safford:makes a Bill.

Number of Debtors.

1800, April 15th, - 15 1803, Oct. 4th, - 24

1801, Dec. 16th, - 18 I lSofi, Sept. 20th, - 33

Allowance, none.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is built on a declivity in the midst of the city. It is much too small for the general number of prisoners. For debtors there are about fifteen large and airy rooms, two of which are free wards, for poor debtors who find their own beds. Those on the Master’s side pay 2s. 6d. per week each; two sleep in a bed. No proper separation of men and women. Only one court-yard, 13 yards by 6 yards, into which debtors and felons are, at different hours of the day, separately admitted for air and exercise, and in which, when I was there,

the

110 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

the linen was hung to dry. There are many narrow passages, and the utmost attention is requisite to keep the prison healthy. I found it clean, considering the felon-side was so crowded and close. No table of Gaoler’s fees; but the Rules and Orders to be observed are stuck up in several parts of the prison; four of which I shall mention as particularly respecting the debtors; viz.

“The debtor’s room doors to be opened at six o’clock in the morning, and locked at ten at night, from the 25th of March, to the fqth of September; and to be opened at eight o’clock the remainder of the year.

“ No garnish to be paid:and if any prisoner demand garnish, or take any thing in lieu thereof, he shall be punished with close confinement.

. “ The debtors to wash, or cause to be washed, their rooms once a week at least.

“ Instead of the debtors being allowed to beg at the grate, a box will be put out for the relief of those who are most in want, and who conduct themselves properly; and the money so collected will be distributed by the Keeper.”

Mr. John Heydon left tool, to be lent to two merchants, each paying annually to the Corporation for the debtors, as the interest of his moiety, l/. 130.’. 4d.

A Society

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

Ill

A Society is instituted in Bristol for the relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts; and this money of Mr. Heydon’s is paid over to the Treasurer of that Society.

Mr. Freeman left 4^. to be laid out in bread and beef, and distributed on Christmas-eve, to prisoners of all descriptions. To this Mrs. Freeman makes a yearly addition of eleven shillings.

The churchwardens have for many years past annually paid 41- 2s. two thirds of which are given to the debtors, and one third to the felons. No memorial in the gaol of any legacy. Besides the service noticed in its place, here are thirteen sermons in the year; for which the rector of the parish receives 4/. from a legacy.

The debtors’ attendance on divine service is optional, and I was sorry to observe only 9 out of 33 there. So little regard is paid to the chapel, as a place of worship, that at almost all my visits, the prisoners have been smoking and drinking in the galleries ! No employment whatever: such, indeed, is the confined situation of the prison, as to exclude the possibility of work. Young beginners and bid offenders associate promiscuously together! An Act passed several years ago to build a new' Gaol: Why not carried into effect in this rich commercial City ?

112

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

BUCKINGHAM Town Gaol

Gaoler, Samuel Dajiby, a collar-maker, who works at the opposite side of the street. Salary, 5/. 5-s. Fees, none.

Surgeon, from the town, when wanted.

Number of Debtors.

1801, Aug l8th, - 0 1804j July ldth, - 2

1802, Nov. 25th, - 1 1805, Sept. 16th, - 1

Allowance, one shilling per week.

REMARKS.

Over the gate is the following inscription:

“ The Right Honourable Richard Grenville Temple,

Lord Viscount Cobham, caused this Edifice to be erected, at his own expence, for the use of this Town and County; the Summer Assizes being restored to this place, and fixed here by Act of Parliament, in the year 1748.”

Behind the keepers apartments is a court, 10| yards by lOf, and two rooms, which open into it, of about 16 feet by 12 each:one is the Bridewell, the other for felons. Over these are two rooms for debtors. No water; the Gaoler fetches it from over the way. The prison is in a dilapidated state: the boarded floors rotten, and full of holes.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 113

BURY ST. EDMUND S; Suffolk.

County Gaol and Bridewell.

Gaoler, John Orridge; who is also Keeper of the Bridewell, or House of Correction.

Salary, 300l. and coals and candles; together with other perquisites specified in the Rules and Regulations.

Fees; as per Table.

Chaplain, Rev. Simon Pryke.

Duty, Prayers three times a week, and a Sermon on Christmas-day and Good Friday.

Salary, 60I.

Surgeon, Mr. George Hubbard.

Salary, 60I. for Debtors and Felons.

^ October 15th, 1801, 0

Number of Debtors < August 8th, 1802, - 9

k August 20th, 1805, 10

Allowance. One pound and a half of bread per-day, and one pound of cheese per week, both to Debtors and Felons: But prisoners and convicts employed by the County have an addition of a quart of small beer per day, and three-quarters of a pound of meat for Sunday’s dinner.

H RE

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS 10R DEBTORS

n 4

REMARKS.

This new Gaol is situate at the end of the South gate, near a mile from the centre of the town; and the prisoners were removed into it December Sth, 1805. The buildings are inclosed by a boundary-wall 20 feet high, built in an irregular octagon form, the diameter of which is 292 feet.

Four sides of this Gaol are 192 feet each, and the other four 70 feet 6 inches each. The entrance to the Prison is the Turnkey’s lodge, a handsome stone building, which consists of the entrance-room, sitting-room, and bed-room for the Turnkejx On the right hand is a room, with a fire-place, 12 feet by and 9 feet 6 inches high, used as a reception-room, into which all prisoners are brought and confined, till they have been examined, properly cleaned, and proved to be free from any infectious disorder, before they are admitted into the interior of the Gaol; and there is a water-closet adjdining, for the use of this room. There are also two cells up one pair of stairs in the lodire, fitted un with iron bedsteads on stone

O y A

bearers, into which all prisoners are put when brought in at night. The size of each cell f) feet (> inches by 6 feet, with arched roofs, and 7 feet G inches high. The Turnkey’s sleeping-room, and a large store-room, are also on this floor. On the left of the entrance, within the lodge, there is a convenient workhouse, fitted up with an oven, copper/

warm

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 115

warm and cold bath, for the use of the prison; and adjoining is also the brewhouse. On the lead flat of the Turnkey’s lodge, which extends 16* feet, executions are performed. After passing through the lodge, the way is down an avenue paved with flag stone, with posts and chains, inclosing on each side a beautiful shrubbery border, that leads to the Keeper’s house, which is also an irregular octagon building, situated in the centre of the prison, and from which the several court-yards are completely inspected.

The Prison consists of four wings, dp feet long, and 32 feet wide, detached from the Keeper’s house by an area of 15 feet, which, with the different court-yards, completely surround it. In all the wings there is a partition-wall 14 inehesthick, running along the centre; so that each wing contains two prisons. The wing numbered 1 and 2 is the prison for male-debtors, in which there are two kitchens, fitted up with every convenience for frugal cookery; the size of each 18 feet by 14, with arched roofs 10 feet high. There are also two passages feet long, and 3 feet 6 inches wide, which communicate with their different rooms, of which there are twenty. Eighteen of these are 9 feet by 8 feet 6 inches, with arched roofs, and 10 feet high; fitted up with iron bedsteads on stone bearers, sash windows, and fire-place in each room. Every debtor

n 2 has

116 '

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Is is one of these rooms to himself. Eiojit are on the,

. O

ground floor; the others on the upper story, to which \ ou ascend by a stone staircase at the end of the lobby, or passage. On this story are two rooms intende I for the sick; size of each lS feet by 8 feet 6 inches, with two bedsteads and a fire-place in each, risere are also two courts attached to this wing, which are an irregular polygon; the one 64 feet by 42, and the other 6*4 feet by 34. Every court-yard has a pump with shy-boards in the centre of it, and to which all prisoners have access in the day-time. Number S, the prison for female debtors, has a day-room 14 feet by 13, with a fire-place; one cell, 9 feet by 6, on the ground-floor; and one cell, the same size, on the upper story. A room, 13 feet by 9, with two bedsteads and a fire-place, for the use of the sick in this division. The court adjoining is 40 feet by 22. Every court-yard has a bench for the prisoners to sit upon; and there are water-closets at the end of each wing, so contrived, that the water runs all the time the person is seated. These wings being detached 15 feet from the Kerper’s house, and the open fences inclosing the couvt-yards being the same distance from the house, forms a court round it, by which means all the prison and prisoners are conveniently attended to, or visited by their friends, without going into any of the rooms or court-yards. The ground-floor

of

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 117

of the Keeper’s house is raised six steps above the level of the other buildings; and the windows ol the house are so placed, that all the prisoners in the different court-yards are under constant inspection, as well as all persons corning into the Gaol. The chapel is in the centre of the Keeper’s house, up one pair of stairs: prisoners go to it by means of

stone galleries, which lead from each wing to the chapel; and it is partitioned off, so that each class is separated the same as in the prison.

All poor debtors have the County allowance; and from the 5th of November to Lady-day, the debtors receive four bushels of coals per week, and forty shillings every Christinas from the feoffment. Here is also a most excellent charitable fund, called Pembertons Charity, (being left by a gentleman of that name) which fund is directed by the do 101’s will, i(To be applied by the Trustees towards the relief of such poor, distressed, insolvent Debtors, as should be imprisoned within any of the Gaols of the County of Suffolk, either for delivering them out of prison, or relieving their necessities whilst there, as the Trustees shall think ft; provided such poor Debtors be persons born in Suffolk, and no way indebted to any of the TrusteesThe Trustees under this charity frequently allow 3 I. or 4 I. and sometimes 5 I. to poor deserving debtors, towards obtaining theirdischarge; they also allow to each debtor two

pounds

1 IS

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEUTOR3

pounds of beef, a pint of porter, and a two-penny loaf, every Sunday; under this condition, that even'' debtor receiving’ it shall regularly attend chapel, unless prevented by sickness: But no crown debtors partake of this charity.

Extracts from the Rules, Orders, and Regulations.

XIII. The Gaoler shall not permit persons jio visit debtors before Nine in the morning, nor to remain longer than Four in the afternoon, from October 1st to March 31st; nor before Nine in the morning, nor to remain longer than Seven in the evening, from April 1st to September 30th.

XIV. Fie shall cause the debtors’ sleeping-rooms to be unlocked every morning at Six o’clock in the Summer, and as early at other times as the day-light will allow them to work; to be locked at Nine o’clock at night, throughout the year; and the door from the day-room into the court-yard to be fastened every evening before dark.

XVI. He shall, at his own expence, provide proper bedding for the debtors, which, for each room, shall consist of a feather-bed, mattress, pair of blankets, coverlet, and sheets; the latter to be changed once a month. The charge to be paid for the use of the room, including the above, with the expence of cleaning, shall be painted over each door.

XX.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 119

XX. The Prohibitory Clauses contained in the Act of the 24th Geo. II. e. 40, against Spirituous Liquors, and the Act of the 14th Geo. III. c- 5.9.. for preserving the Health of Prisoners, shall be painted on a board, and hung up in the Prison.

XXXIII. All Prisoners shall be compelled to put on clean linen every Sunday; which, if they have it not of their own, shall be provided by the County.

XXXIV. Hi ere shall be provided proper scales, weights, and measures, duly stamped, for the use of the Prisoners, to weigh and measure their at!owr-ances, whenever it shall be required by them:notice of which, and likewise their different allowances, shall be painted on a board, and hung up in the courts of each division.

XXXV. Convenient places being made where the prisoners are to wash themselves, clean towels shall be provided in each division, twice a week; and the men shaved every Saturday.

XLII. “ A Table of Fees and Rates, to be paid by Debtors: being regulated as directed by the Act of the 32d Geo. II. and 31st Geo. III.

«s. d.

To the Gaoler, for Commitment Fee and

Discharge of every Debtor, on each Action - - — — 8 8

To the SherilF, for Discharge on each Action 2 o

To

120

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

s. do

To the Gaoler for a Certificate in order to

sue for a Supersedeas — - 3 6

To the Gaoler, for each Copy of a Warrant 2 O

The following Rates to be paid to the Gaoler for room-rent, lpdging, &c.

s. d.

Every Debtor occupying one of the rooms,

No. 1, 2, 3, and 4, shall pay each week 2 O Every Debtor occupying one of the rooms,

No. 5, 6, 7, S, or 9, shall pay each week 1' 6 Every Debtor occupying one of the other rooms appropriated for the use of Debtors, shall pay each week - — 1 0

Every Debtor finding his own bedding,

shall pay for his room each week - 1 0”

This Gaol does honour to the County, and is superior to most in this Kingdom; whether I consider its construction to answer the three great purposes of security, health, and morals, or the liberality of the Magistrates, in providing every comfort which can attend imprisonment.

The Keeper, Mr. Orridge, is well qualified for the discharge of his important trust, being active, intelligent, and humane.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

121

CAERMARTHEN CASTLE; South Wales. County Gaol and Bridewell.

Gaoler, Thomas Calkin; Salary, 31 /. 10s. from the County, and 61. 6s. from the Borough, Fees, 13s. 4d. No Table.

Garnish, 2s. 6d.

Chaplain, Rev. Thomas Price.

Duty, every Sunday and Holiday.

Salary, 12l.

Surgeon, Mr. William Price.

Salary, 201, for felons only.

Allowance, none; except upon application to

This Gaol, finished 1792, is also the County Bridewell. Here is a spacious court, 38 yards by 22, for men and women debtors. A well is sunk in it, and a reservoir prepared to supply the prison with water; but having been out of repair four months, at my visit in 1803, the prisoners had been without that necessary article during that time, except what they bought at a half-penny a jugfull. For debtors here are five rooms below and five above,

Number of Debtors

a

6

the parish as* paupers.

REMARKS.

each

122

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEHTOKS

each about 12 feet by Q, with fire-places, but the windows were much broken, and out of repair. 1 bey-are all free wards. The County allows iron bedsteads with straw in sacking beds, and five pounds for coaLs yearly, to be distributed amongst all the prisoners. Among the debtors was one John Williams;

o

he told me he was confined for a debt of 18/. 10s.:that he was security for another for the payment of 24s. which he thought had been paid; and the attorney had proceeded against him in the Borough-court, and from thence removed it to a superior Court, till the law expences increased an original debt of 24s. to 18/. 10s.! The Borough-gaol is now consolidated with the County; the old gateway pulled down, and shops built there. Act and Clauses not hung up. Loads of ashes and rubbish in the several courts, and the whole prison dirty. Here is a very long range of excellent work-rooms, but no employment.

Amon" the convicts was one woman, so ill as to be unable to turn herself in bed, and without medical assistance; though frequently sent for, I was informed the Surgeon had not been in the Gaol for two months. Another female convict, who had been two years under sentence of transportation, had a young child, of which she said the late Gaoler was the father. A similar instance I met with in Dover Town-gaol in September 1 So 1.

IN ENGLAND^ SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

1‘23

CAERNARVON; North Wales.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, William Griffiths. Salary, 15l.

Fees, Js. (no Table); besides which the Under Sheriff demands 3s. 6d. for his liberate.

Chaplain, none. Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors/1801’ -Nov-7th' ' ' 3

I 1803, Sept. 21st, - - 3

Allowance. To those who are very poor, 2s. a week from the County.

Remarks. Men and women debtors have one court-yard, 72 feet by 31; and one large day-room with a fire-place, 27 feet by 14; over which is the chapel, the same size, with three pews, and benches for the prisoners. Upstairs are six sleeping-rooms, all free wards, to which the County furnishes iron frame bedsteads with sacking bottoms, straw in ticking bed, a pillow, two blankets and a rug. None of the courts paved, and fowls were kept in them. No water; the pump being out of repair. No coals allowed by the County. Act and Clauses not hung up. The Keeper is a shoemaker, and works in a front room. In the centre of the building is an inspection-room, 18 feet by 13, in which the Gaoler and his family ought to live, as it commands all the courts. A lunatic was confined with a felon.

124

.ACCOUNT or PRISONS FOR DERTOES-

CAMBRIDGE CASTLE,

County Gaol and Bridewell.

Gaoler, Robert Orridge.

Salary, 200l. Fees, and Rules and Order* not yet settled.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Homes.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Sunday. Salary, 25l. and 20/. from the Earl of Hardwicke, as Lord Lieutenant of the County.

Surgeon. Mr. Okes.

Salary, 201, for Felons only.

^ 1802, August 7th, - (i Number of Debtors 1805, August 25th, - 14

L1807, August 30th, - 11

Allowance. To poor debtors one pound of bread per day, and four pounds and a half of potatoes per week.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, which in 1807 was not quite finished, is built in the centre of the old castle-yard. The boundary-wall encloses an acre and quarter of ground; and, being on an average about 30 feet from the prison, affords the keeper a convenient garden for the growth of vegetables. The Turnkey's

lodge

IS ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 12j

lodge is in front, and the Gaoler’s house in the middle of the area.

On the first story is the Chapel, which has ten divisions for the different classes of prisoners; the whole are in view of the Minister and the Gaoler, and each class out of sight of the others. At my visit 25th August 1805, twelve out of the fourteen debtors, and all the criminal prisoners, attended divine service. Above the Chapel are three infirmary-rooms, about 15 feet square, and g feet high, with a room for the nurse; each has a water closet and sink, and there is a reservoir with a warning pipe, which supplies the whole prison with water. At the top is a lead flat, about 40 feet square, (with a parapet wall) for convalescents to take the air upon.

The prison itself consists of four wings, detached from the Keeper s house by an area of 16‘ feet; and has ten different court-yards, the average size 55 feet by 40, with open fences at each end, so that a thorough air is preserved. There is a pump and sink in th§ centre of each court, and a water-closet in all. One wing is appropriated to the debtors, and has two courts for men and one for women. Master's side debtors have a day-room 16* feet by 14, and two sleeping-rooms, g feet by 7 feet 6*. with a fire-place in each. Over these are four sleeping-rooms, of the same size; all have glazed sash windows, and iron bedsteads, and are furnished by the Gaoler as the

prisoners

126 *

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

prisoners can afford to pay:all are single beds, and the whole have arched roofs.

Common-side debtors have a day room, 23 feet by 14; and four sleeping-rooms, of <) feet by 7, with a fire-place in each. Over these are seven sleeping-cells, of the same size, with glazed sash windows, fire-places, and iron bedsteads:to these the County furnishes straw in sacking beds, two blankets, and a coverlet.

Women Debtors have a day-room on the ground-floor, 14 feet by 13 feet 6 ', and two sleeping-rooms above, fitted up the same as the men’s.

Debtors have relief from legacies and donations paid by several colleges. From Sidney college four pounds annually, which ds given at Christmas to poor debtors; and in 1801, was distributed as follows, viz. to six poor debtors a shirt each, and the rest in coals and bread:from St. John's sixteen penny-worth of bread every Saturday morning. A collection is sometimes made in the town at Christmas, which has amounted to one guinea each:And 16s. a year is paid from an estate at Croxton in this county. No memorial in the Gaol. Allowance of coals not yet fixed. Mops, brooms, pails, soap, &c. to keep the prison clean, are allowed by the (’ounty.

W ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 127

CAMBRIDGE Town Gaol Gaoler, Thomas Adams. Salary, 12l. He is bellman to the Town. Tees; none.

Chaplain, none. Surgeon, none.

r 1800, May 16th, - 1

Number of Debtors < 1801, Aug. 20th, - 1

L 1802, Aug. 7th, - - 0

Allowance, none. See Remarks.

REMARKS.

A small court-yard, with a pump and sewer in it, for all description of prisoners. Upstairs are three separate rooms for men and women debtors, who pay Sis. per week for a single bed; and if two sleep together is. 3d. each. Water is accessible to all the prisoners now. Some relief is received from St. John’s College, upon the Gaoler’s solicitation; and Trinity College sends three sacks of coals yearly for debtors and felons, which are used to cook their victuals in the house, and occasionally to warm themselves by, there being no common room or fire-place for either. There is likewise bread from the Colleges, to the amount of one shilling and seven pence per week; and the Town furnishes straw for poor debtors, but no employment for any. The Gaol clean, but not secure. Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor Clauses against Spirituous Liquors hung up. No Rules and Orders. No room set apart for the sick.

128

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

CANTERBURY City Gaol,

Gaoler, Evan Jones. Salary, 15^ *

Fees, 6s. 8(1. No Table.

Chaplain, none:the Rev. Mr. Gosling attends, if any prisoner is under sentence of death.

Surgeon, Mr. Trimnel; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors.

1800, March 26th, - 1 1803, Sept. 24th, - 2

1801, Sept. 20th, - 2 I 1806, Aug. 12th, - 2

Allowance. To those who are poor a Ad. or 6d. loaf a day, as bread is cheap or dear.

Remarks. This Gaol is over the West gate. Here is only one day-room, about 2^ feet square. No court. There is a room in each of the two towers, for debtors to sleep in (l 1| feet in diameter), and the Keeper occasionally permits them to walk upon the leads. Only old mats to lie upon. The Keeper lives in a house adjoining, in which is a room or two for debtors, who can afford to pay for a bed. An old man goes about the City with a basket every Saturday, to collect from the butchers and green-stalls, meat and vegetables. He receives one third of what he collects, and the remainder is equally divided amongst all the prisoners. The Corporation likewise give him yearly a great coat, and a laced hat.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

12£>

CARDIFF; Glamorganshire. County Gaol.

Gaoler, Thomas Morgan. Salary, loo/.

Fees; none; except admitted to bail, 6s. Sd.

Chaplain, Rev. John Evans. Salary, $ol>

Duty, Sunday, Prayers and Sermon.

Surgeon, Air. /Gilliams. Salary 20/.

Number of Debtors,

1801, Nov. 21st, - -

1803, (Jet. 2d, - -

0

6

Allowance. 2s. 6d. each per week, by the county.

Remarks. There is only one court-yard for debtors, size 26 yards by 13, and a pump in it; but the well not being deep enough; and the season very dry, they had been without water lour months at iny visit in 1803. One common sleeping-room, which will hold four beds, for men-debtors who are unable to pay for bedding, and to whom the County allows straw. There are six rooms, each about 16 feet by 14, for those who can pay 2s. per week for a bed. A commodious chapel, where debtors and felons are kept apart during divine service. No employment furnished by the County. Two rooms set apart for the sick, and a bath. Act and Clauses both hung up.' Debtors are not confined in the town-gaol now.

I

T30

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

CARDIGAN.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, IVm. Lang don. Salary, 30l.; fees, Cs. 8d.

Chaplain, Rev. John Evans. Salary, 20l.

Duty; Sunda}rs, and at other times if required.

Surgeon, Mr. Williams. Salary, lol.; for debtors and felons.

Number of Debtors,

1802, Nov. 30th, 18 03, Sept. 2dth,

- 6

- 3

Allowance. None whatever. If a debtor is poor, he must apply to his parish for relief.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, finished 17£>7? is situate at the North end of the town; has a paved court in front, 42 feet by 27, with cast-iron palisades, which give it a handsome appearance. On one side of the entrance is the Gaoler’s kitchen, and on the other his office; beyond which, and in the centre of the building, is the Great Hall *, or inspection-room, 38 feet by

* If the Gaoler Were to live in the great hall, he would hare a Complete command of the whole prison; but at my visit, 1803, it was filled with corn, and two men were thrashing it.

30,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

30, of a circular shape; with a flagged floor, two Jire-places, and four windows, which command the four different courts, each of which is 20 yards by lb. The six passages which lead to the criminals’ sleeping-cells open into this room. For debtors there are four rooms on the ground floor, and four above, each 12 feet by 11, with Jire-places, but no jucl allowed. Straw only is furnished by the County for the debtors to sleep upon. The chapel is properly partitioned oft ', so that the sexes are out of sight of each other, and their respective lobbies lead to their seats. Over the chapel are two good rooms for the sick, the size of the great hall below, both light and airy, with a fire-place in each. There is no water on the premises; the Keeper fetches it from a well a quarter of a mile distant: even the inhabitants buy it for their own use. No bath. The whole Prison very dirty. Geese, ducks, and poultry, in the courts. Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors hung up. A lunatic confined with a felon ! No care is taken of maniacs; although it is probable that, by medicines and proper regimen, some of them might be restored to their senses, and usefulness in life. No Pules and Orders. Seldom visited by the magistrates.

132

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

CARLISLE, City and County; Cumberland.

Gaoler, Joseph Midlender; Salary, 40l. and to a Blacksmith 2/. 2s. for his attendance.

Fees, 1 Is. Notable. Garnish, Is. 6d.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Mat h. Salary, 20l.

Duty, Sunday, Prayers and Sermon.

Surgeon, Mr. Ilodgin. Salary, 5/. 5s. and paid for medicines.

Number of Debtor, I 1800’ Al>ril lst’ " ~ 28 I 1802, Sept. 20th, - 16 ’

Allowance: One shilling and three pence pel '

week each, if poor, on application to the magistrates.

REMARKS.

The Debtors1 Court is spacious, 85 yards by 3d; and has a pump with fine water. It was formerly common to all prisoners, but now a part is appropriated to the felons, 15 yards by S, and separated by iron palisades; through which they can converse with the debtors, or any persons who visit there. The gaoler’s house is at the upper end of the court. The chapel (built, as appears by the date, in 1734) adjoins, and the prisoners mix indiscriminately to hear divine service.

Master’s-side debtors have five rooms in the keeper’s house, for which they pay 2s. 6d. per

week;

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. l^j

week; and two sleep in a bed. Common-side debtors have four free wards, 23 feet by 1 S, and a small room:but they are in a very dirty and ruinous state; with windows opening to the court:formerly they looked into the street. The sexes are separate .at night, but together all the day.

No infirmary; no bath Act for preserving the Health of Prisoners, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, not hung up.

This Ciaol is in a very ruinous and dilapidated state; but there is an excellent situation near the Castle, where I was informed a new Gaol was proposed to be built. The Sessions-house might likewise adjoin, the present one being very old and inconvenient, from its being in the middle of the City, and distant from the prison.

CARLISLE City Gaol is over the Scotch Gate. It is only one ruinous room, about 20 feet square, with a fire-place, and a window feet by- 1]. No allowance. No court. No water. It was filled with lumber when I was there:no prisoner had been confined in it for 10 years. The prisoners from the City are kept in the County Gaol, by agreement between the Corporation and the Keeper. No toicn debtor can now be imprisoned for less than 10/.: they seldom exceed 2 or 3 in a year, and those only for a short time.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 13$

REMARKS.

This elegant Gaol, erected on a very liberal plan, at the County expence, was first inhabited in 1/77* Its handsome appearance cannot fail to excite the admiration of every passenger:blit the original plan, in many parts, was found defective. It was too much crowded by a large chapel, a needless tap-room, a spacious kitchen, and other domestic offices. These defects, however, have been since very judiciously remedied, by the abolition of the tap, and removal of the chapel to a more eligible situation; by which many single cells have been added, and the salubrity of the prison increased.

Debtors and felons are here kept entirely separate. The former, men and women, have only one courtyard of , 99 feet by 14, in which is a day-room, with a flagged floor, 22 feet by 14; and eight separate sleeping-rooms, 18 feet by 14, and 9 feet 10 inches high, with fire-places and sash-windows:likewise a straw room, or free ward, 1, 3 feet by l6‘, with three sashed windows, and furnished with straw for those who cannot afford beds. A large upper room, called the smugglers-room, 42 feet by 16‘, with iron-grated windows, and furnished with good beds, is also appropriated to debtors, who can pay for the use of it. The whole Gaol is well supplied with excellent water.

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

136

Some years since, Mrs. Herris gave lands in trust to the incumbent of Chelmsford, out of the rents of which 5 A are distributed annually on Christmas eve, in equal portions, to the debtors. A memorial of this is hung up in the gaol. The Act for preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are conspicuously placed.

All prisoners are required to attend chapel; their behaviour when I was there was attentive and orderly. The felons are classed according to their offences, separated by wainscot partitions, with an iron screen before their seats. I cannot help expressing the pleasure I received from the worthy chaplain’s selecting passages of scripture, the most appropriate to the class he was addressing. He admonished the profligate, exhorted the thoughtless, and comforted the afflicted. Not content with the formal discharge of required duty, he appeared to be, in principle, a Christian.

* There wants a separation of young beginners from old offenders: and at my visit in 180^ a man committed for bastardy was in the Felons’ Court. The two infirmaries are injudiciously on the ground- floor.

IS ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALKS. 13 7

CHESTER CASTLE.

County Gaol.

Gaoler and Constable *, Matthew Hudson,

Salary, 400 I.

l?ees, <)5. 8d. which are accounted for the Keeper.

Debtors pay 4, 9. id. to the stock for coals.

Chaplain, Lev. Rowland Hill. Salary 30/.

Duty. Sunday, Prayers and Sermon; Wednesday and Friday, Prayers.

A debtor officiates as clerk, for which the County allows 21. a year.

Surgeon, Mr. Hughes. The County pays to the Infirmary 6‘0 /. for attendance and medicines, out of which the Surgeon receives 10 /. for his attendance.

Number of Debtors,

1801, Nov. 7th, - 26 I 1803, Dec. 28th, - 28

1802, Oct. 16th, - 31 I 1805, Oct. 26‘tli, - 38

Allowance, To debtors, seven pounds of good wholesome bread per week, which is to be at least one day old, viz. 3f lbs. on Tuesday and Friday. See Remarks.

* Salary from the Crown, iS /. 5 s.

138

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

REMARKS:

This Castle, which by its magnificence does honour to the County, is, I am informed, one of the finest pieces of Grecian architecture in this kingdom. The architect, Mr. Harrison> of whose professional abilities the Bridge and Castle at Lancaster will stand as lasting records to posterity. The grandeur of the design, the elegance of its appearance (being all of white stone), and the convenience with which every part of Chester Castle is constructed, render it equal, at least, to any gaol in the kingdom.

O

Its front extends about 100 yards, in the centre of which stands the County hall. Before it is a colonnade projecting about fifteen feet, composed of twelve solid pillars, six in a row, each 21 feet long, without a joint. The Court itself describes a semicircle, round which there are 12 other solid pillars, 18 feet long. On these rest the stone beams which support the roof. The Court of Justice is well calculated for seeing and hearing; the audience being raised one above another upon steps 18 inches broad, in the manner of the Greek and Romaic Theatres.

From the prisoners’ bar here is a private passage into the Gaol, for bringing them into Court. On

' O o

the left hand of the Hall is the entrance to the Gaol,

and

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 139

and the Turnkey’s lodge. After passing the vestibule is the Debtor’s yard, which is both spacious and airy, 72 feet by 63, exclusive of the Terrace, 63 feet by 17, and overlooks a large tract of country. Over the Turnkey’s lodge and a small arcade of nine feet, is a day-room, 24 feet 6* by 18 feet 6 *, and 13 feet high, with a cistern of water, a stone sink, and stone shelves to set the provisions upon. Also a sleeping-room adjoining, 26 feet by 18 feet, and 13 feet high, well lighted and ventilated: under the stairs is a small cellar for coals. On the right side of the yard is another day-room, 24 feet by 20, and 12 feet 6 inches high, with a water cistern, stone sink, a pantry, and stone shelves for provisions. Above this is a sleeping-room, 32 feet by 20, and 13 feet 6 inches high, well lighted and ventilated. The four rooms here noticed are for Common-side Debtors, who are allowed a straw bed, two blankets, and a coverlet lined with flannel, by the County. At the top of the stairs is a large cistern of water, used for cleansing the sewers in this part of the prison.

On the left side of the yard are two stories of small sleeping-rooms, twelve in number; ten of which are 13 feet 6 by 7 feet 6, and 12 feet high:the end room oh each landing-place, 19 feet by 8, and 12 feet high, with fire-places. Two pleasant day-rooms also adjoin to each, 13 feet 6 by 15 feet,

. and

140

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

and 13 feet high, with two windows in each room: these are for Master's-side Debtors. 'I hey have no water-cisterns in these apartments, but there is a pump well supplied with spring water in the centre of the yard. Each sleeping-room contains one bed, for which, if found by the Keeper, the prisoner pays 2s. per week; if the prisoner finds his own bed lie pays Is. per week, which is accounted for to the County by the Keeper. Debtors have no access to their sleeping-rooms during the day; the bedsteads on which they sleep are two iron tressels with boards, painted and varnished.

At the extremity of the yard, on the right hand, is a passage, 81 feet by 6, leading into another yard, 63 feet square, exclusive of the terrace, which is 63 feet by 17. On the further side is the Infirmary, 42 feet by 18, with conva-r lescent toojjis adjoining, 13 feet high, airy, and well ventilated. At the end of the yard is a large cistern of water supplied from the river Deva, or Dee.

Opposite to these are the Women Debtors apartments; of which description there are at present but two. A sitting-room, 20 feet by 17, and a sleeping-room, 23 feet by 20: both airy, and well ventilated. A large cistern with water to cleanse the sewer; and in the centre of the court-yard a pump, well supplied with spring water.

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 14 J

The Chapel, which stands directly under the front room ami terrace of the Keeper’s house, is a very neat little building, ornamented with seven solid pillars lS feet long. The felons sit in live seats or boxes, 12 feet by 6 feet 8, corresponding with their respective court-yards, over which is a gallery erected for the debtors. The Keeper’s pew is behind the clergyman, and the communion table below, where the sacrament is administeredfrom four to six times a year. On each side of the chapel, in a straight line, are IS solitary cells, 7 feet 8 by 0 feet 4- Each has a small anti-room, 8 feet 2 by 7 feet 8, and 8 feet 6 inches high; three of which anti-rooms are now made into work-shops, and of the rest seven may be heated by a stove for that purpose. Over these cells on each side are workrooms for debtors, the roofs of which, being of flagged stone, form the terraces in the debtors’ and infirinary courts; and in front of them are two rows, of iron railing, placed a .little distant from each other, in order to prevent the debtors, or their friends, from seeing or conversing with the felons

C/ o

below.

Here is a warm and cold bath, and a stove to purify the prisoners’ infected cloaths, which are taken from them on coming into prison, and the gaol uniform put on. Such debtors as work have two thirds of their earnings; but there are few, except taylors t - and

142 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

and shoe-makers, that can get employ, as Chester is not a manufacturing city.

There is a book kept in the prison for visiting magistrates to enter their remarks; and the earnings of the prisoners are accounted for at each Easter session. I cannot help here ^expressing my regret for the loss to this City of that able and upright magistrate, the Rev. Dr. Peploe Ward (who by the late Act is obliged to reside nine months in the year at Ely). By his active energies and unremitting attention, Industry and Morality were encouraged and inculcated; and, possessing temporal authority to make his spiritual advice respected, its influence was felt through every department of this very interesting Gaol.

The only legacies I find on record are the two following. <f Mr. John Normy, Citizen and Merchant-taylor of London, by his will, loth October, lCl5, left 6s. 8d. to be distributed on Candlemas yearly, for ever, by the Mayor, to the poor prisoners, in money or bread.”

“ Valentine Broughton, of Chester, Alderman, by ec his will lfith June, 1G03, left 13^. 4d. to be dis-<(tributed at Michaelmas and Lady-day yearly, for “ ever, by the Mayor, to the prisoners in the Castle, “ by equal portions, or 20 days after.”

The above written list of gifts a true copy.

Tho. Tacg, Cl. Pads, N. B,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 145

N. B; These are regularty paid (1805) by the Mayor.

Of the debtors (when f was here in 1805), 1$ were at work, and one of them, a shoe-maker, had saved upwards of 10/. Of the felons seven were employed. Every one of the prisoners attended Chapel the next day:their appearance was clean, their (behaviour orderly, and they were very attentive to a serious and appropriate discourse. Their worthy Chaplain has a discretionary power to distribute among them moral and religious books, as he thinks necessary.

Every Christmas the Ladies and Gentlemen of Chester are waited upon by the Turnkey; and their 'subscriptions, for relief of prisoners, generally amount from 14 to 18/. part of which is distributed in money and coals, as the visiting magistrates direct. Out of this fund the worthy keeper is authorized to allow any very poor debtor the same quantity of potatoes and salt weekly, as the felons receive. Also, from the same annual donations he assists many poor debtors to obtain their sixpences; and, frequently, to effectuate their discharge, by a small addition to the sums voted them by the SOCIETY for Small Debts, ill London; A book is kept for the purpose of entering all donations, and the manner in which they are applied, which is under the constant inspection of the Magistrates.

144

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTOR?

The excellent Rules and Regulations here established are printed, and stuck up in various parts of the prison, which is kept remarkably clean. The County Magistrates have evinced great liberality, in providing every comfort which can attend the privation of liberty; and in shewing pity to the misery of even the most guilty. In the choice of a Gaoler the qualities of the Man seem to have been parties larly attended to:mild of temper, patient in manners, humane and firm in conduct, he is much respected by all; and satisfaction is visibly demonstrated in the countenance of every prisoner.

The Exchequer at Chester is a very antient Court* In all probability it had its institution from one of the first Earls of Chester, soon after the Conquest, who were possessed of absolute and regal power; foF the Conqueror gave his nephew Hugh Lupus, as the words of the Grant express, “ Totum hnne comi-tatum, tenendum sibi et h cared thus sit is it a I the re, per gladium, sicut Rex ipse tenebal Anglice Coronam

The officers of the Court are the Chamberlain, Vice-chamberlain, Baron, Deputy-baron, Seal-keeper, Examiner, Bailiff Itinerant, Filacer, Messenger, Cryer, the County and City Gaolers, and the Clerks in Court. Its jurisdiction extends only over the County and City of Chester: Persons living out of the same are not compellable to appear by process, unless they have lands or effects within one or the other of them.

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 145

The Court is of a mixed nature, taking cognizance not only of equitable matters, but also of cases purely legal, so far as respects the recovery of debts.

The proceedings are by subpoena, bill, and answer, the same as in the Court of Chancery.

The bills which are for the recovery of debts, suggest, that the bond, note, &c. is lost, or that the complainant has no witnesses to prove his demand.

If a defendant neglect to appear at the return of the subpoena, he is committed to gaol by attachment for contempt, till he either enters an appearance, or, (ifforwantof an answer), till he puts in his answer.

A person may be held to bail in the first instance for a debt of 10/. or upwards, upon adding to the usual affidavit of the debt, “ that the complainant well knows the defendant, and believes that he <(will not appear by the ordinary process of sub-poena of the Court, and perforin the orders thereof “ without surety; for that he is a person of weak <c estate, and much indebted, as the deponent hath “ heard, and verily believes to be true.”

This mode of proceeding is not resorted to, but in cases where the defendant is in the circumstances stated in the aifidavit.

K

The

146 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

The following is entered in the Magistrates’ books.

“ By order of the Visiting Magistrates,

“ 10th April, 1805.

(i We the publicans permitted to serve the pri-“ soners confined within the Castle of Chester with <f ale, &c. do hereby publicly declare, that from the cc date hereof, we will exonerate every prisoner, on cc his discharge, from all debts whatever we may “ have permitted him to contract with us, either for ((ale, porter, or wine.

£f Witness our hands,

“ Rob. Oldham.

((Rob. Goff.”

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 14J

CHESTER CITY, North Gate.

Gaoler, John Wilbraham; Salary, Got. Fees9s. 8d.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Larden.

Duty; Prayers twice a week, and a Sermon three times a year. Salary, 12l. 12s.

Surgeon, Mr. Wilkinson; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors.

1800, March 31st, - 4 I 180S, Dec. 28th, - 2 1802, Oct. 19th, - 4 I 1805, Oct. 26th, - G

Allowance. One pound of bread per day each:

REMARKS.

This Gaol has four rooms for debtors. No free ward. Those who have a single bed pay 3s. 6d.

If two in a bed, two shillings per week each. Only one small court-yard; insecure, and not used but as a passage to the Chapel. There is a legacy of

11. 13s. 4d. paid annually by the Corporation. All debtors who receive the bread, are obliged to attend chapel, or forfeit their allowance. Mr. Larden is Chaplain to the Blue Coat School; and officiates in little St. John's chapel. A canal parts it from the prison-yard; and a foot-bridge made for the purpose, gives the prisoners an opportunity of attending divine service. A new City Gaol is just finished.

K 2

14S

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

CHESTERFIELD; Derbyshire. Gaoler, Thomas Shepherd. Salary, none.

Fees, 1.?. Garnish, Is.

Number of Debtors, Oct. 11th, 1805, - 1

Allowance. None whatever.

This Gaol, for debtors in the hundred of Scarsdale, is under the Town-hall, the property of the Duke of Devonshire, and is let to Mr. Gosling, together with the tolls of the market, for lS/. 12s. per annum. It consists of two rooms, which open into a close passage, 25 feet long, and 5 feet wide. That for men, 18 feet by 15. The women’s 25 by 14, with a copper in it: both have fire-places, and iron-grated windows towards the street. If the debtor brings his own bed, he pays nothing; and there are some rooms in the house, to which the Keeper furnishes beds, at 1$. 6d. and 2s. per week.

REMARKS.

COLCHESTER; Essex.

Gaoler, John Hardy. Salary, 12l. Fees, 2s. 6d. Allowance. Four pence per day.

Number of Debtors

Remarks. One miserable room. Court insecure

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 149

COLD-BATH FIELDS; London.

Gaoler, Thomas Arts; Salary 400/.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Evans. Salary 50/.

Duty, Sermon on Sunday, and prayers twice a week.

Surgeon, Mr. IVebb; Salary 300Z. for this prison and Clerkenwell Bridewell.

Number of Debtors,

1800, August 1st, 1802, Feb. 8th, IS03, Nov. 4th,

2

2

3

1805, Feb. 15th, lSob, Oct. 31st, 1807, March 3d,

1

1

2

Allowance. A loaf of one pound weight every day, a pint of gruel every morning, and a quart of broth made from beef, with oatmeal, celery, onions, leeks, pepper, and salt, for dinner; and every other day six ounces of meat, instead of broth, for dinner.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is also the County House of Correction. Debtors from the Courts of Conscience are sent here. A court-yard 35 feet by 20, a day-room about 12 feet square, and two sleeping cells 7 feet by 5f; wooden bedsteads, a straw in ticking bed, a blanket, and rug. The County humanely allows a peck of coals per day.

150

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

COVENTRY; JFandcMiire.

Gaoler, Basil Goode. Salary, 120l.

Fees, 15-y. 4d.; besides which the Under-Sheriffi demands 4-s. for his liberate.

Chaplain, only to those under sentence of death.

Surgeon, Mr. IFhit well; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors,

1802, Jan. 2dth, - 7 1805, Nov. 1st, - 2

lSo.$, August 22d, - 3 ISO/, July 2/th, - 2

Allowance. A 4d. or 6d. loaf per day each prisoner, as bread is dear or cheap, if very poor.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, built 1772, is in a very close part of the city. For Debtors and Felons, one common court-yard, 6‘0 feet by 40, and a separate day-room 14 feet square. There is a common ward for poor debtors, who are allowed straw, a blanket, and a rug, and pay Gd. a week. Master-side Debtors have seven lodging-rooms, to which the keeper furnishes beds at 3.s ', a week, or if two sleep together, 2s. each. The horrid dungeons still remain a disgrace to the city. This Gaol might be improved, by enclosing a small piece of waste ground adjoining, and making a separate court for the women:to which, if a few old houses in Pope’s-head Alley were added, it might be made sufficiently large for the city.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 151

DERBY, Borough Gaol.

Gaoler, Charles Smith. Salary 50/.

Fees 12^>. 8d. No table. Garnish, Is.

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon, Mr. Haden; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors,

1801, Nov. lfith, - 1 1803, Aug. 24th, - 2

1802, Jan. 29th, - 3 I 1805, Oct. pth, - 1

Allowance. Three twelvepenny loaves per week. REMARKS.

The gaoler’s house fronts the street, and his back room commands the court-yard, which is 33 feet by 24, with a pump, and cistern for a cold bath. Debtors have a day-room on the ground-floor, 12 feet by 11, with a fire-place; and upstairs three sleeping-rooms, about the same size; to which the corporation allows wood-bedsteads, loose straw, two blankets, and a rug each; and two tons of coals yearly for the whole Gaol. All may work who can procure it, and have what they earn, added to the town allowance. One debtor was cutting skewers for Butchers, at %d. the thousand. Court of Conscience debtors are sent here, who must apply to their parishes for an allowance.

152

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

DERBY, County Gaol.

Gaoler, William Eton. Salary, 170l. and for House of Correction 301.

Fees, 17s. 4d.; besides which the Under-Sheriff demands 6s. 8cl. for his liberate. Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Nicholas Bailey.

Duty, Sermon on Saturday; and prayers Monday and Wednesday; -and every day to prisoners under sentence of death.

Salary, 35l.

Surgeon, Mr. Fox. Salary 40/. for debtors and felons.

Number of Debtors,

1801, Nov. 16th, - g 1803, Aug. 24th, - 8

1802, Jan. 2pth, - 12 1805, Oct. pth, - 13

Allowance; two twelve-penny loaves per week, sent from the baker's, weight Oct. pth, 1805, four pounds each. When a debtor receives his sixpences, he has not the County bread.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is situate on Nuns Green, the front of which is occupied by the Keeper, and extends 126

feet.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

153

feet, including the passage which leads to the garden, of five feet wide; the depth is 121 feet; so that when the width of the passage is taken off, it forms a complete square. It was finished and inhabited 1757; the situation airy and healthy. The Keeper’s hack rooms command all the Courts, except the vagrants’. There is one large court-yard, 82 feet by 43, well supplied with hard and soft water, common to the debtors, and men in the house of correction; but debtors have the exclusive privilege of walking on the flat roof, which is $0 feet by 26. A large day-room, 20 feet by 15, and 10 feet 6 inches high, with an oven and utensils for frugal cookery. They have eight sleeping and work-rooms above stairs:the- average size about 17 feet 6 inches by 11 feet, and [) feet 3 inches high, /with fire-places, glazed windows, and wooden bedsteads. Chaff beds, two blankets, two sheets, a bolster, and a rug, are furnished by the Keeper, at sixpence each per week; but if a debtor brings his own bed, he pays nothing. There are likewise convenient water-closets at the end of the lobbies, to which they have access in the night-time. The humane Keeper frequently employs them in weaving calico; they are furnished with looms from the town at four-pence per week, and receive all they earn. Women debtors have a separate Court, 23 feet y inches by 12 feet 6, will) hard and soft water in it,

and

154

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

and a sewer. Their four lodging-rooms are up a flight of 18 steps: each has a fire-place and glazed window; the average size about 12 feet square, and 9 feet high; they are fitted up with bed and bedding, the same as the men’s. Two guineas and a half in coals is allowed yearly. The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, both hung up. The whole prison very clean, and frequently visited by the magistrates. An exceeding good cold bath, with a copper for warm water.

There is a man (Thomas Jenney) goes about the country at Christmas with a book, soliciting relief for the debtors, in which the donors enter their names and subscriptions. The amount at Christmas 1804, thirty-two pounds, one fourth of which he receives for the trouble of collecting. At chapel, the sexes are out of sight of each other, and all are required to attend, except Roman catholics. Bibles, prayer-books, and religious tracts, are furnished by the County. Over the chapel are two rooms set apart for the sick, 35 feet by 11, and 9 feet 3 inches high, with fire-places and glazed windows. All descriptions of prisoners have a hot dinner on Christmas and New-year’s day. Bread and cheese for supper, and each one pint of ale.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

155

DEVIZES; Wiltshire.

Gaoler, Joseph Draper. Salary IOO/.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Leddiard.

Duty, every Sunday. Salary, 20l.

Surgeon, Mr. Gibbs. Salary, 15l.

pi801, Dee. 15th, - 2

Number of Debtors, < 1804, July 2/tb, - O

Ll8oG, October 15th, 2

Allowance, none, except to paupers.

REMARKS.

This is also the Town Gaol, and house of correction. Debtors sent to this prison are committed by the Court of Requests for the adjacent hundreds of

g

Bradford, Melksham, and IThorlsdoicn, the costs of which frequently exceed the original debt: the charge of bringing to prison is 10s. 67/. though only from Caine, at seven miles distance. There is no separate court, and I have sometimes found men debtors with the felons. No bedding provided by the Corporation:the Keeper furnishes straw at his own expence. No firing allowed in winter. If a latticed partition and door were made in the criminals court, about six feet from the Keeper’s door, it would prevent the prisoners from rushing out, and o, f which, he told me, he was sometimes afraid.

156

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

DOLGELLY; Merionethshire.

Gaoler, Rice Edwards. Salary, 20l.

Fees; Gs. Sd. No Table.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Williams. Salary, 19.1. Duty. Prayers every Saturday.

Surgeon, Mr. Ellis Evans. Salary, 12l.

{1800, April 2d, - 5

1802, Jan. 30th, - 5

1803, Sept. 23d, - 2

Allowance. Eighteen pence or two shillings per week.

Remarks. There is only one small court-yard for all descriptions of prisoners. No day-room. Five miserable lodging-rooms on the first floor for debtors, to which the Comity allows neither bedding, straw, nor fire. Private benevolence enabled me to release a debtor, who had been in confinement near 20 years, for a debt of 2 jl. 5s. 5d. He was eighty years of age, and his wife, older than himself, was with him: they were carding and spinning, by which they earned about three pence a day each, which, with two shillings allowed to him by the parish, was what they had to subsist upon.

A new Gaol is building here.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

157

DONCASTER; Yorkshire.

Town Gaol.

Gaoler, Joseph Farrington, Serjeant at Mace.

Deputy, 'Thomas Hill, Town-Beadle.

Salary, 10l. 10s. Cloaths and laced hat, yearly.

Fees, debtors 2s. 6d.; felons Is. 4d.; conveyance of transports 1a\ per mile.

No Chaplain, or religious attentions.

Surgeon, from the Dispensary, when wanted.

Prisoners, 14th August, 1802, one Debtor, one Felon:both together !

O

Allowance, 4d. or Gd. per day, as bread is cheap or dear.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is a detached building in St. Sepulchre Gate street. The keeper’s house overlooks the court. Inscribed on its front, in stone, is, u John Whitaker, Esq. Mayor, 17/<).” For all kinds of prisoners, one small flagged court, with a pump.

Felons

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

15$

Felons have two good-sized rooms below; one totally dark, except a small aperture in the door: the other has an iron-grated window, not glazed. Above-stairs are two rooms with iron-grated and glazed windows, for debtors. The rooms have fire-places. The Borough allows fuel in Winter; straw on wooden bedsteads, two blankets, and a rug.

Debtors are brought here by procession Borough Writs, to any amount; as, likewise, for smaller sums, from the Court of Requests. No sewer, nor means for decent cleanliness 1 The prison most intolerably offensive. The gaoler told me, “ it was usually so. “ It had been white-washed but twice in ten yeans “ by the Corporation; but the prisoners had some-“ times bought white-wash, and done it themselves. *

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

159

DORCHESTER, County Gaol

Gaoler, George Andrews.

Salary, 2lS/. for himself and two turnkeys.

Fees, 13a1. 4(1. which is paid to the treasurer ol the county stock. Besides this fee, the Under-Sheriff demands 2s. for his liberate.

Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Bryer.

Duty, Sunday, and Wednesday. '

Salary, 50l.

Surgeon, Mr. Arden. Salary, 40l. for both

Debtors and Felons.

A Task Master, Gol. per annum.

/-1800, March 31st, - 7

Number of Debtors < 1801, Dec. 29th, - 3

11803, Oct. 2lst, - - 9

Allowance. One pound and a half of wheaten bread (made with the whole of the bran in it) to poor debtors, by order of the magistrates, but not otherwise; and a quart of broth per day each, to those who work on account of the Gaol Fund; and they likewise receive half their earnings. Master’s-side debtors, who do not work, maintain themselves.

1 GO ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

REMARKS.

The situation of this gaol is most judiciously chosen, on the North side of the town of Dorchester, on a piece of ground still called the Castle, and which was formerly the site of a building of that description, at the foot of which flows the river Froome. It is bounded by a wall twenty feet high, which, from the Turnkey’s lodge, situate at the North side of it, completely surrounds the whole of the buildings.

The ground on which it is erected was, in a most handsome manner, given by Francis John Browne, Esq. one of the members for the county. Men debtors have two airy court-yards, each 70 feet by 35, and over the South front of the South-West wing are their sleeping-cells, five on each side of the two upper stories, ten in the whole, 8 feet 6 ' inches by 6 feet 6, and 9 feet high, to the crown of the arch. Two day-rooms, each about 6 yards by four and a half, and near 12 feet high. Over these are two airy sleeping-rooms, with three beds each, in case the number should exceed what can be accommodated in the debtors’ wing.

On the second story are two rooms for female debtors, without communication with the floor above it or below it, with beds, &c. the same as the men; and over these the Infirmary.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 161*

The County provides an iron crib bedstead, a straw-bed, two blankets and a rug for each prisoner.

There is no allowance of coal, either to male or female debtors, except in the winter season in very cold weather, and except an especial order is made for that purpose by the visiting magistrates:and the coals so ordered are not paid for out of the County Stock, but out of the Gaol Charity Fund.

Debtors, male or female, who are content to sleep in the county beds, have them free of expense; otherwise they must provide their own beds and bedding (which they are allowed to do); or else pay the-gaoler c2s. 67/. a week for bed and bedding, with one sheet, or 3$. 6d. with a pair of sheets. The following notice is stuck up in the different day-rooms: “ If any prisoner does any wilful damage to his or her palliasse, blankets, or rugs, he or she shall be immediately punished by close confinement in one of the refractory cells, and there fed on bread and water only, for a space of time in proportion to the damage done.”

When visitors come to see the debtors, they are introduced to a narrow space, or slip, the inner door of which is kept constantly locked, the outer one open. There are two windows opening from it, one into each debtor’s day-room:these windows are iron grated, but a table goes through each of them, one half being in the debtor’s Loom, the

L other

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

\C)2

other half in the narrow passage, or slip. Thus debtors are not excluded from the society of their relations or friends, nor are visitors allowed in general to come into their rooms; hv which means irregularities are prevented. In particular cases, the Keeper, where he finds it proper, unlocks the inner door, and suffers the debtor to take his friend into his cell, or court. The friends of debtors are permitted to stay with them, if they please, from ten o’clock in the morning, till four in the afternoon, after which time no stranger is to remain within the walls. Prisoners of all descriptions, debtors as well as felons, work together in the manufactory. The chapel is in the centre building, into which doors open from the several wings; the prisoners are seated in classes, and all are required to attend divine service, unless prevented by illness. The kind donation of Edward Morton Pleydell, Esq. who for many years sent each prisoner at Christmas sixpence in money, and two pounds of beef, has been discontinued since his death in 17pp. Lord Digby formerly sent at Christmas two guineas to this gaol, and one to the Bridewell, which I was sorry to find also discontinued. The legacy of Mr. John Derby of twenty shillings a year for bread, to he distributed among the debtors on the four quarter days, is regular! y paid and applied to the Gaol Charity Fund, which is placed in the hands of the Chaplain,

but

tN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. l£>3

but under the direction of the visiting Justices. It arises from the humane contributions of individuals, and from it an additional quantity of coals is purchased in extreme hard weather, for the different classes of prisoners. The debts also of Such as upon enquiry are found to be truly objects of compassion, are compounded and liquidated out of the same Fund.

Th ough Dorsetshire is not a manufacturing county, yet through the exertions of its magistrates, who alternately superintend the concerns of the prison, employment is found for all. Here is a considerable edifice for the manufacture of hats *, in which J saw numbers at work: others were employed in 'shoe-making, tayloring, carding, spinning, &c. These manufactures have been tried for several years with success. The produce of the work is divided into shares, of which the debtor has one half; the keeper a sixth part, to encourage his attention; and the remaining third part is accounted for to the County, and defrays a considerable proportion of the expences of the prison.

Upon enquiry made into the characters of all the Dorsetshire prisoners, on charges of felony, during a period of fourteen years, it appears, that out of 3P3, of both sexes, no less than 242 have been

* The manufacture of hat6 I found discontinued at my visit in 1805.

L 2

4

found

164 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

found reclaimed, and maintaining themselves by honest industry. A striking example this of the beneficial effects of employment in prison; and which, it is to he hoped, will be seriously considered by every county, but more especially those, where manufactories have been introduced, and discontinued, on account of being, in their infant state, unproductive. Expectations of County emolument from the labour of a prisoner ought not to weigh so forcibly, as the credit of restoring to society a worthy and useful member.

It always gives me pleasure to find prisoners employed, because, in the first place, they are then more healthy. It also diverts them; and is a means of procuring them clean linen, or stockings, ora little milk, or meat to their bread, or other articles limited by the magistrates, and an account of which should be hung up in the prison, such as tea, coffee, butter, cheese, vegetables, &c. It has likewise this further and political advantage over idleness, that it prevents the prisoners from combining together to effect escapes.

This County, with a liberality which reflects upon it the highest honour, rewards those who, twelve months after their discharge, can produce certificates, properly attested, of their having honestly, soberly, and industriously served those who kindly afforded them employment. *

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

1G$

DOVER CASTLE.

Gaoler and Bodar *, W illiam Collinson.

Salary, 30l. Fees; see the Table.

Garnish, Is. (hi.

Chaplain, r.one. Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors,

1800, May 20th, - 6 1804, Sept. 24th, - 4

1802, Jan. 27th, - 2 1806, Aug. 4th, - 6

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is for debtors in the Cinque Ports, viz. Hustings, Dover, Jlythe, Romney, and Sandwich. The Right Honourable William Pitt was Constable; now Lord JJawhesbury.

Here are three rooms for debtors; one 18 feet by 12; another 13 feet by 11; and the third, called the New room, 15 feet by 12. Each prisoner pays 2s.4d.per week for a bed; two sleeping together. The courtyard is 50 feet by 20, and the wall 28 feet high, the sun and air thereby almost totally excluded; a very small part paved; the ground is consequently damp, and the place unhealthy. It is bounded on one side by the gaoler’s house; on another by the rock or cliff; and on a third by the military stabling.

* Bodar, or Messenger, and Bailiff (or the Cinque Ports.

It

1(>6 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTOR?

It would be a considerable improvement, if a grated window were opened on the fourth side, which looks towards the South, and the public path; by which means the sun and fresh air would be admitted, and the prisoners might see their friends, and passengers, with other visitors of the hill, and occasionally solicit charity. The court-yard, also, should he wholly paved, both for exercise and comfort; and some enclosed place provided to deposit the putrid vegetables, dirt, and ashes, which I have constantly seen thrown in one corner in cart loads, till it had formed a most offensive dunghill.

The gaoler told me he sent his hoy every day to Dover, to fetch what the prisoners wanted: But, as he himself is the Bailiff for the Cinque Ports, and sometimes necessitated to be absent for several days together on business, debtors are frequently obliged to pay a man for bringing them the common necessaries of life from the town, which, in consequence, stand them in 201. per cent, above their value, and sometimes a penny for a pailful of water! They are also obliged to pay a woman for washing their rooms, having neither mops, pails, or brooms, fire or candle allowed. It would he an act of mercy to those confined in this singular kind of gaol, if the fees were abolished, or at least lowered; for, besides those specified in the following table, there is one guinea charged for the latitat writ; and if the prisoner

is

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 107

is brought from Margate, 1 /. 1 l, s\ GW. for a chaise,

making together, 4/. IffA. 10d.

Table of Fees. /. s. d.

Arrest - 1 1 0

Commitment - — 0 13 4

Guard money and bed for a night 0 0 4

Discharge - - 0 G 8

Yeoman porter - — 0 0 6

Clerk of Dover Castle - - 0 3 6

2 7 4

When it is considered how difficult of access the situation of this prison renders it, how seldom it is visited in Winter, and that the debtor must be in confinement three terms' before lie can sue for his slv-petices; he may, before the expiration of that period, unless sustained by charity, be no more. It is much to be regretted, that prisons in privileged places are not put on the same footing with the County Gaols.

I found no instance of any debtor’s having received the benefit of the Lords' Act in this prison.

A great and good Writer, who once lived an ornament to human nature, has observed, “ that there <s should be an uniform Code of Laws framed for the “ Police of all Gaols. 1 he laws of a kingdom “ ought to be general in a well-regulated state.”

168 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

DOVER Town Gaol.

Gaoler, John Mitchell.

Salary, 30l. a chaldron of coals, and a suit of clothes.

Fees, 8$. 2d. discharge, is. 6d. Garnish, Js.

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon, Mr. King. Makes a bill.

^ 1801, Sept, lpth, - I

Number of Debtors, J 1804, Sept. 24th, - I

LlSob, Aug. Cth, - 0

Allowance. None whatever.

Remarks. This Gaol is also the Bridewell. For debtors, there are three rooms above; to which, if the Gaoler furnishes a bed and bedding, he charges seven shillings per week. Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor Clauses against Spirituous Liquors are hung up here, or at the Castle. The Gaol is in a close part of the Town, and the Corporation allow annually four gallons of vinegar to fumir gate it; 12 lb. of whiting, six pounds of soap, mops, brooms and pails, to keep the prison clean, and straw when the Gaoler requires it. At my visit in 1801, Isabella Mode, who had been three years under sentence of transportation, had a young child born in the prison, of which she said that Harris^ tli9 late Keeper, was the father.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. ldp

DUNBAR; Scotland.

Gaoler, John Carrs. Salary, none.

No Surgeon.

Prisoners, 10th September, 1802, none.

Allowance. Four pence a day, till alimented, ao cording to the discretion of the Magistrates, which is in 14 days after commitment.

REMARKS.

' Idle ascent is by a flight of fourteen steps, which lead to two large rooms about seven yards square:one of which is for felons^ the other for debtors, who are not burgesses: Both were in the most filthy state imaginable; and the debtors’ room was occupied by the gaoler and his family. Upstairs is a large room for debtors who are burgesses. The dark room below, called Thieves Hole, the keeper said was not 4ised now. No court. No water.

DUMFRIES; Scotland.

A new gaol is building: not yet finished.

170

ACCOUNT OF PRIONS FOR DEBTORS

DURHAM.

Gaoler, John Wolfe (by patent from the Bishop, durante beneplacito). In the patent it is called the Outer Gate.

Salary, 200l. for the Bridewell 35/. and 17/. from the rents ‘of four small adjoining: houses. Out of this salary the Gaoler pays 30/. per annum to a Turnkey and assistants, and likewise provides them a house to live in Fees and Garnish abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. James Dcason. Salary, 40l. Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Sunday.

Surgeon, Mr. Green. Salary 61. 6s. and his bill for medicines.

Number of Debtors, < 1801, Nov. 8th, - - 15

Allowance. (See Remarks.) If certificated as paupers fourpence a day.

The High Gaol is the property of the Bishop. By patent from Bishop Talbot, 1723, Sir lied worth Williamson, Bart. wras appointed Sheriff, with a salary of 10/. per annum; and it has continued in

1800, April 1st, - - 14

REMARKS.

the

4

K

172

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

only one for all descriptions of prisoners:it is open all day for the accommodation of Debtors., except when the Felons are in it, which is for an hour or two in the day, when they think fit; and then the door is locked, to prevent any communication between them.

The Low Gaol consists of two rooms, 10 feet inches square, by the gateway, under which, out of a door, are conveyed the dirt, ashes, &c. which formerly lay for many months. Both these rooms arejrec wards. There are likewise three others at the top of the gaol; the largest of which contains seven beds, the others one bed each. To all these the County furnishes iron bedsteads and straw mattresses gratis. These rooms are now ceiled and lime-whited; but the debtors complained much of that great nuisance, bugs, which the straw mattresses harbour, and preclude all possibility to get rid of. Two rooms, formerly set apart for Infirmaries, are now appropriated to Women Debtors. Masters-side Debtors have six separate rooms furnished by the Keeper, at 3 6d. a week, or, if two

sleep together, Is. Gd. each. Two of these rooms look to the street, and open into the chapel, for-merlytheDebtors’-hall. There is a double-barrelled pump, which raises water about seventy feet, and supplies the High Gaol. Half-a-crown a quarter is paid to a woman for supplying the Debtors in the

Low

£N ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

173

Low Gaol with water. The County provides no work; but the humane Keeper told me, he constantly procured (for such as are not of handicraft-trades) employment in spinning, picking oakum, beating flax, &c. and that every prisoner, however employed, receives the whole of his earnings. The Rules and Orders, as settled in 17<)G, I transcribed; luz. “ Chamber Rents to be received by the Keeper of Durham Gaol of and from the Prisoners for Debt.

In the common chamber, without a bedfellow, the Gaoler providing the bedding, bedcloaths, and sheets 0 2 G

In the common chamber, the prisoner providing his own bedding, bedcloaths, and sheets, and not admitting a bedfellow - -000

In the common chamber, the prisoner providing the bedding, &c. to admit a bedfellow, who shall pay the Gaoler - 0 1 %

The said Prisoner to pay himself

to the Gaoler - 0 0 4

Visitors to Debtors shall be admitted on week or working days, from the hour of nine o’clock in the

In an entire chamber in the High Gaol,

without a bedfellow Ditto, with a bedfellow

0 3 6 0 1 6

morning

174

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

morning till twelve at noon, when (onbell ringing) all visitors and strangers whatsoever shall leave the prison.

All debtors shall retire to their respective rooms at nine o’clock in the evening in the Winter, and at ten in the Summer; when all lights shall be extinguished, and their wards secured. And that ilo visitors shall be admitted on Sundays.

No description of prisoners shall be permitted to go upon the leads. That, as far as the situation of the Prison will admit. Felons be classed and separated. And that any Charity given to the Prisoners confined in the Gaol shall be funded, and distributed to them in addition to their earnings; and a regular account of such distribution kept by the Governor, which shall be produced when any Magistrate shall require the same.

££ Durham {to wit.) We his Majesty’s Justices of “ the Peace, present in open Court, at the Ge-f£ neral Quarter Sessions of the Peace, holden at <e the City of Durham, in and for the said. <f County, the thirteenth day of July, . 1 J<j6, “ do approve and allow of the foregoing Rents a and Rules.

“ John Eden. Ralph Ord. Hen. Hopper.

<f C. Spearman. R. Burdon. Ciia. Eggerton.

“ H. Metholde. Ra. Milbanke. Henry Mills.

Rob. Green.”

“ July 23d, 17.9b. We his Majesty’s Justices of ££ Assize for the Northern Circuit, having inspected

££ the

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 175

* (the above account of Chamber Rents and Rules, t(do allow, approve, and confirm the same.

“G. ROOKK,

“S. LAWRENCE” Debtors in the Low Gaol receive, from a legacy, is. 6d. a week in Winter, and Is. a week in Summer. No memorial of it in the gaol. From the Mayor of Durham’s book it appears, that he charged, the Corporation of Newcastle with having paid the above sums; and it also appears, that the Corporation of Newcastle reimbursed him. By an entry in the Common-Council Books of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, it is recorded as follows:t(December 23d, IO99—3/. 6s. 8d. is paid, out of the revenues of the Corporation of Newcastle, to the Mayor of Durham, for the use of the prisoners, annually on St. Andrew’s-day.” (See Brand’s History of Newcastle, vol. II. pp. I93, 1, 94.) It is the donation of a Mr. Frankland. How the distribution of this charity became changed from St. Andrew’s day to a weekly payment, and that to prisoners in the Low Gaol solely, does no where appear; but if neither of the low rooms in the gateway is occupied (which has frequently been the case), the arrears have never been paid:on this account, the Keeper takes care to have one prisoner at least there, to secure the regular payment. There is another donation, of 15<y. per annum, viz. 5s. at Christmas,

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

1/6

5s. at Easter, and 5.y. at Whitsuntide. This is a charge on lands late belonging to Mr. Jackson, of Witton-le-Wear, in this county. The estate has been lately purchased by Mr. John Wood, of Bishop’s Auckland, subject to the said charge, which is regularly paid to the Gaoler as it becomes due. Of this legacy there is no memorial in the Gaol.

The legacy of <c Bishop Creive” mentioned by Mr. Howard, must be a mistake with respect to the name. It is not in his will (which I have read); but there is a similar donation to that of Bishop Wood left to the debtors in Durham Gaol by Dr. Hartwell; and in the copy of his will (in the possession of Mr. Wolfe) there is, after several other bequests, (< Item, I give and bequeath to the Gaol of Durham, for the use and benefit of insolvent debtors there, 20/. per annum, to be disposed of under the same restrictions and limitations with the charity of the like kind by Bishop Wood; and that, in the application of it, respect he first had to the parishioners of Stanhope.” This bequest, as well as several others mentioned in his will, amounting to 8o/. per annum, are chargeable upon an estate at Fish bourn, in this county.

The estate at Fishbourn, out of which this legacy is paid, as well as several others, is somewhat more than sufficient for the discharge of the ordinary demands made on the Treasurer, according to

the

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 1*//

the will. The rents are regularly paid by the Tenant to the Treasurer; there is therefore a yearly surplus in hand. If the demand’s of the year do not equal the 20/. the will has not provided' for the disposal of the surplus. It of course remains in the hands of the Treasurer of the Charity. Out of this accumulating surplus the Trustees have occasionally relieved very great distress; as they did a few years since, in the case of the tenant of the estate, whose corn crops had been destroyed by the tremendous hail-storm, which did so much mischief in the neighbourhood of Sedgefield, in the year 1792. They allowed him sixty pounds, at two different payments, towards repairing the loss of his corn crop. There were four debtors released by this charity *in 1/97, one in 1/98, cue in 1800, four in 1802, and Jive in 1805.

The persons to be released are nominated by the Mayor and Corporation. If none are released, it is because none are nominated. The Mayor and Corporation are not the Trustees; but they nominate objects, as directed by the will, and recommend to the charity; and their recommendation is always accepted.

The Trustees in Dr. Hartwell’s will are the Dean and Chapter of Durham, or any three of them. The acting Trustees have been for many years the Dean and four of the Prebendaries:as vacancies

M happen

178

ACCOUNT OF FllISONS FOR DEBTORS

happen in the trust by death, other Prebendaries are eleeted by the surviving Trustees.

Besides the Bishop of Lichfield, who is the Dean, the present elected Trustees are, the Bishop of Rochester, the Bishop of St. David’s, the Bishop of Norwich, and the Rev. B. G. Bowyer.

By the following account of Dr. Hartwell, it appears, he was Rector of Stanhope, in this county; which accounts for that part of his bequest, “ that “ respect be first had to the parishioners of <f Stanhope meaning, if any such were in prison.

Dr. William Hartwell was formerly secretary to Lord Crewe, when Bishop of Oxford. In the year lfiSl, he was made Rector of Wickham, in this county; in lfiS5 was removed to the Rectory of Stanhope; and in 1709 was made Prebendary of Durham. He died in June 1725, and was interred in the cathedral church here. His will bears date March p, 1724.

The accounts relating to Bishop Wood's legacy appear to be very intricate and perplexed; but, from the respectable characters who are at present engaged in the business, there is hope of ultimate success. Bp. Wood, by will made lfipo, charges his estate or manor of Ecclesclifi ', in the Bishoprick of Durham, with the payment of 20/. annually, for ever, to be applied for the relief and discharge of poor prisoners, that then were, or hereafter might

be,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 1'

be, in the Gaol at Durham for debt; each poor prisoner’s debt not exceeding 5/. And, by the said will, the Mayor and Aldermen of the city of Durham, for the time being, were appointed Trustees of the said Charity. It appears by the books (now in possession of Mr. Wolfe) that this estate, chargeable with the said legacy, was, in the year 1750, purchased by Anthony Ilall, of Flass, in the county of Durham, esq. and subject to this devise:that, between the year 1750 and 1J66, there were arrears due from the said Mr. Hall to the charity, to the amount of 54/. 4s. llid'.; that a suit in Chancery was instituted by the Bishop’s attorney-general against the said Anthony Hall for the said arrears, together with a further sum of 16$l. 155. which had been paid into the hands of the then Mayor and Aldermen of the city of Durham, Trustees of the said charity, by the said Anthony Hall, according to the will of the said Bishop Wood; but had never been accounted for to the said Charity by the said Mayor and Aldermen: And that, in the year 177d, it was decreed by the said Court, that the said Anthony Hall should pay the whole of the arrears due to the said Charity, together with the costs. That in the Michaelmas Term afterwards, the said Anthony Hail filed a Bill in the Exchequer against the said Mayor and Aldermen, charging them with an abuse of the said Charity;

lyl 2 and

ISO

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

and it was decreed, that the said Mayor and Aldermen should account for the arrears before stated:That, in 1/68, the Corporation lost their charter; and other Trustees were then duly appointed by the Court of Chancery at Durham, to manage the said Charity; and the said Trustees have from time to time, as any of them have died, or declined acting, been replaced by others, according to the directions of the said will *. The balance of the account due to the Charity at Midsummer 1802, as appears by the books of the late treasurer, is 205/. and at Midsummer 1804 had increased to 245

Bishop Wood was Chaplain to King Charles I. and in 1635 Rector of Wickham; in 16S0 Prebendary of Durham; in 16*63 Dean of Lichfield and in 16/I consecrated Bishop of Lichfield, with which he held a prebendal stall at Durham. He died April 18, l6<}2, and was buried at Ufiord in Suffolk. His will, by which he bequeaths several other charities, as well as that to the Gaol at Durham, is dated Nov. 11, l6<)0.

Eleven out of seventeen debtors only attended divine service; but all the felons, except one. Their behaviour was orderly, and attentive to a very appropriate discourse.

* The present acting Trustees are. Sir Ralph Milbanke, Bart, Sir John Eden, Bart. Henry Mills, Esq. Ralph Orde, Esq. Rowland Burdon, Esq. Charles Spearman, Esq. Rev. John Hutton, Rev. \V. Nesfield, Arthur Mowbray, Esq. F. Johnson, Esq. 'Wni. Russell, Esq, and R. J. Fenwick, Esq.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

lS J.

EDINBURGH Tolbooth.

Gaoler, or Captain, James Welsh. Salary, 100l. Fees, 67/. coming in, and 67/. going out; one half paid by the creditor, the other by the debtor. See Table.

Licence for Porter: he likewise furnishes bread and small beer.

Garnish, none allowed.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Port eons. Salary, 15l. Duty, once a Sunday, to debtors only.

Surgeon. When one is wanted, application is made to the Deacon of the Surgeons’ Company.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Sept. 13th, - 17.

Allowance. According to the discretion of the Magistrates.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, and a large mass of old buildings which adjoin it, (but since taken down) nearly block up one of the most spacious streets in the City, by being built in the centre. There is no court-yard, and the Gaoler has no apartments in the prison. If a prisoner for debt declares upon oath, that he has

not

1S2

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

not wherewithal to maintain himself, the creditor must aliment him, within ten days after notice given for that purpose, with at least three-pence a day. By an Act of King William’s first Parliament, ldpG, sixth Session, Chap. 32, Debtors are alimented by their creditors at the discretion of the Magistrates. The lowest order I could find on record was four-pence a day; the debt was only one guinea; the highest order was eighteen pence:this principally depends on the rank of life in which the debtor has been accustomed to move. When I was in the prison, the 13th Sept. 1802, the Keeper received five pounds from the creditor of a Mrs. Stuart, being one hundred days’ aliment, at one shilling per day (the debt was three pounds, costs three shillings,) to commence from the 1st of September, the day of her commitment. By the process of Cessio bonqrum *, a debtor, after being one month in prison, may obtain his liberty, and be secured against execution for any previous debts, by making a surrender of all his effects to be divided among his creditors; though, if he afterward come into better circumstances, his effects may be attached for the payment of those previous debts. This compassionate law prevents a creditor from putting his debtor

- Sec ‘f Principles of the Lnw of Scotland, ” 5th edition, 8vo. Edinburgh, 1777, pp. 462 and 463.

in

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 183

in prison, unless there be good reason to think that he is acting fraudulently. Perjury is not frequent in Scotland. The oath, and form of administering it, are very solemn. The witness, holding up his right hand, repeats the following words after the Judge:cc I3y Ciod himself, and as I shall answer to God at the great day of judgment, I shall declare the truth, and nothing but the truth, in so far as I know, or shall be asked at me.” The depositions are then read over, and signed by the witnesses and Judge There seems, however, to be very little attention paid to reforming the prisoners; the attendance on divine service being optional with debtors, and not permitted to felons ! No firing allowed, except in the common-hall, or day-room, which is also the Chapel. Debtors and felons, men and women, mix promiscuously together in the morning, when they fill their tubs with water. The Gaol had been whitewashed about six months before my visit, being the only time in twenty years. As every prisoner may have as much beer as he can pay for, the tap-room was full, anti many persons from the town were drinking with the prisoners. There are six rooms with glazed windows for men, and one room for women-debtors, furnished with wood hed-

* Louthian’s Form of Process, before the Court of Justiciary ia Scotland.” Edin. 1752, p, 109.

steads,

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

1S4

steads, straw mattress, a blanket, a rug, and two pillows, for which they pay as per Table. No employment, except for handicraft trades, whose tools are not dangerous. There are two tubs in each room, the smaller one is filled with water, and the other serves the purpose of a sewer. There were- four women felons confined in the same room with four women debtors: The Clauses against Spirituous

Liquors were stuck up, but not the Act for Preservation of Health. Prison clean.

There is a plot of ground, where some old buildings have been taken down, and at present useless, well calculated for building a new Gaol with proper court-yards, and which might communicate with the Court of Session. The front of the prison and Gaoler’s house to form a part of the street, and the present Tolbooth taken down, would leave the street spacious and airy.

ACT or COUNCIL regulating the fees payable to the jailor and clerk of the To.booth of Edinburgh.— Edinburgh seventeenth July, seventeen hundred and twenty-eight. The which day the Lord Provost, bailies, council, deacons of crafts, ordinary and extraordinary, being convened in council, and taking into consideration the present state of their Tolbooth, and particularly the fees that have been in use to be exacted by the jailor and clerk of the said prison, both from creditors at incarceration of prisoners, and from the debitor, or person himself imprisoned; and judging it highly reasonable, fiiat these fees should for the future be publicly ascertained.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

IS r,

tained, by authority of the Council, for the benefit of all concerned:Therefore the Council do tax and settle the same as follows, viz.

Fees payable to the Jailor.

The incarcerator of any debitor for any sum of money shall pay at incarceration one halfpenny sterling for each pound Scots, and another halfpenny sterling of each pound Scots, to be paid by the debitor at his liberation; and this in place of one penny sterling of each pound Scots in use to be paid by creditors at incarceration, and of the like sum of one penny sterling of each pound Scots, usually paid by the debitor at liberation, as relief money.

Scots.

I. s. cl.

Item, Each person imprisoned for a civil debt, or otherwise, not being a burgess, shall pay to the jailor of house, dues each night attour what is above - - 0 G 8

Item, Each burgess imprisoned for a civil debt, or otherwise, shall pay also to the jailor of house dues each night attour what is above 0 3 4

Item, The incarcerator of any person or persons by the Lords’ Letters of Laburrows shall pay at incarceration - - 3 0 0

Item, the incarcerator of any person or persons on Laburrows by a magistrate, sheriff, or justice of peace, shall pay at incarceration - 1 10 0

Item, The incarcerator of any person for exhibition of papers, or for implementing of writs (captions of reproduction of processes before the inferior courts excepted) shall pay at incarceration . - 110 0

The

IS 6

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

The Council ordains and declares when any gentleman or other person shall be incarcerate in the Tolbooth, and shall desire to have a room in the prison, by him or herself, such persons shall be liable for the conveniency of such room, to pay to the jailor ten shillings sterling weekly, in place of prison fees, or such as they and the jailor shall agree, but not to exceed ten shillings.

That all prisoners shall be liable to pay the underkeepers, and the woman Avho cleans the house, as prisoners were in use to do before the Act of Council the 17th day of July 1728:But if any dispute shall arise thereanent, the magistrates, for the time being, shall have the full power of determining the same.

Fees payable to the Clerk of the Tolbooth.

Scots.

I. s. d.

Imprimis, Each person incarcerate upon any

Laburrows, shall at his liberation pay - 0 12 0

Item, Each person incarcerate by warrant from the magistrate, shall at his liberation pay - 0 6 0

Item, Each person incarcerate by warrant from sheriff or justice of the peace, shall at liberation pay - 0 12 . 0

Item, All government prisoners shall pay each

at liberation - 2 0 0

Item, For each petition by a prisoner for the benefit of the act of grace, and for the clerk’s declaration thereto subjoined, shall be paid 0 6 0

Item, For the borrowing or delivering up of any diligence by which prisoners are incarcerate (all magistrates’ warrants at or within ten mercks excepted) shall be paid - 0 4 0

Item,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

i3;

Scots.

I. s. d.

Item, All persons incarcerated or arrested for a sum or sums at or below 120/. Scots, shall pay to the clerk at liberation four pennies for each pound Scots; and for sums above 120/. Scots, shall pay at liberation to the clerk two pounds Scots, and no more.

Item, All persons incarcerate for exhibition of papers, or for implementing of writs (captions for reproduction of processes before the inferior courts excepted) shall pay to the clerk at liberation -110 0

Item, All creditors or incarcerators of persons for civil debt, or otherwise, shall be free of all fees to the clerk at incarceration.

And the Council statutes and declares, that if any fees shall be demanded or exacted in time coming, by the jailor or clerk of their Tolbooth, other than these above set down, they shall incur the deprivation of their respective offices; and ordains these presents to be printed and published, that none may pretend ignorance.

And the Council hereby ordains James Cleland, principal jailor, and his successors in office, to affix a copy hereof in the Tolbooth-hall, and in his own office, under the penalty of 5/. Scots, toties quoties.

Extracted (Signed) John Dundas. Edinburgh, the Sixth Day of July, Seventeen Hundred and Seventy-nine Years. These do certify, by me William Gilles, clerk to the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, that the above is a true and exact copy of the Act of Council of the city of Edinburgh, by which the keeper of the said Tolbooth and me as clerk thereof are governed.

William Gilles."

188

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

EDINBURGH, Canongate Tolbooth.

Gaoler, William Pursell. Salary, none.

Fees. See Table. Licence, Porter and Beer. Garnish, none allowed.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, when one is wanted application is made to the Deacon of the Surgeons’ Company.

Number of Debtors, Sept. 12th, 1802, - 8

Allowance. According to the discretion of the Magistrates.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, like the other Tolbooth, is ill situated, and has no court-yard. Here are six rooms for Debtors and Criminals, one of which is called the Iron-room: they have glazed windows and fireplaces, but no .coals are allowed to any part of the prison, except the common-hall, or day-room; where prisoners and towns-people associate together, and by their drinking compensate the Gaoler for the want of a salary. No bedsteads or bedding furnished; every prisoner must bring his own. Prison very dirty.

TABLE

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 18‘)

TABLE OF FEES.

ACT of COUNCIL, anent the Fees and Regulations of the Canoncate Prison.

s

At Canoncate, the Seventeenth day of June, in the Year One Thousand Seven Hundred and Ninety-five.

The which day William Coulter, Esq. Baron Bailie, Messrs. Daniel Miller, and Robert Scot, resident Bailies, and William Murray, Treasurer of Canongate, sitting in Council; having taken into their consideration the many complaints and disputes anent the Prison-Fees of Canon-gate, owing to there being no public authorized copy of these Fees in use:And considering that the Right Honourable the Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Town Council of Edinburgh, as proprietors of the said prison, by their Act of Council, dated the 4th November, 1789, 4C authorized the jailor of Canongate to exact the same <£ Fees as are exacted by the keeper of the Edinburgh “ prison, and contained in an Act of Council, dated the *c 17th July, 1728 Therefore the said Baron, resident Bailies, and Treasurer, hereby statute and ordain the Fees mentioned in the said Act of Council, of date the 17th July, 1728, and no other, to be exacted by the keeper of the Tolbooth of Canongate; and which are as follows, viz.

Fees payable to the Jailor of Canongate.

The Incarcerator of each Debtor shall pay at incarceration to the Jailor two and one half per cent, of the sum for which the prisoner shall be booked.

Item,

1^0 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Item, The incarcerator of any person or persons by the Lords’ Letters of Lawborrows, shall pay at incarceration,

Item, The incarcerator of any person or persons, upon Lawborrows by a Magistrate, Sheriff, or Justice of the Peace, shall pay at incarceration, -Item, The incarcerator of any person for exhibition of papers, or for implementing of writs (captions for reproduction of processes before the inferior courts excepted) shall pay at incarceration, -Each person imprisoned for a civil debt, or otherwise, not being a Burgess, shall pay to the Jailor of House Dues each night,

Item, Each Burgess of Canongate or Edinburgh, imprisoned fora civil debt, or otherwise, shall pay to the Jailor of House Dues each night, -

Item, Each Prisoner for Civil Debt shall pay at liberation, over and above the foresaid House-dues, two and one half per cent, of the sum for which he or she hath been booked, as relief-money, unless liberated by Decreet of the Act of Grace, or Cessio Bonorum. Creditors consigning Aliment-money for Prisoners, shall pay to the Jailor fixe per cent, on the same.

All Deserters shall be free of Prison-dues to the Jailor, in terms of the Act of Parliament, called the Mutiny Act, Sect. 51.

Scots.

I. s. d *

3 0 0

1 10 0

1 10 0

0 6 8

0 3 4

Any

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

iyi

Afiy Prisoner, chusing a room for more conveniency (if such can be spared at the time), shall pay for the same, in place of Prison-fees, according to agreement with the Jailor, not exceeding ten shillings sterling per week.

"Regulations for the Jailor.

The said Tolbooth to be keeped clean, and opened at nine in the morning, and shut at ten at night; and furnished with sufficiency of water.

All malt liquors sold by the Jailor shall be good of the kind, and of no higher price than what is'commonly charged for the same in taverns. And he is hereby prohibited from exacting, or allowing to be exacted, what is called Garnish-money from prisoners.

The Jailor, by Act of Parliament, 24th Geo. If. Cap. 40, is prohibited from selling Spirituous Liquors, under the penalty of one hundred pounds sterling:and also from allowing spirits to be brought into the prison, except by way of medicine, ordered by a physician or surgeon, and allowed by a magistrate.

Fees payable to the Clerk for keeping the Prison Records.

The names and designations of all prisoners, with the diligences or warrants on which they are imprisoned, together with the acts and warrants of liberation, shall be regularly entered into a hook, to be kept by the Clerk, or Assistant Clerk of Court, and reported to the Sitting Magistrate each Court-day, and for which there shall be paid the Fees mentioned in the Clerk of Court’s Table of Fees, viz.

Sterling.

1Q2 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Sterling *

I. s. d.

The incarcerator of each person shall pay at incarceration for booking the diligence, &c. along with the Jailor’s Fees, - -010

Each prisoner for a civil debt, or otherwise, shall pay at liberation, for entering the order or warrant of liberation, &c. - - 0 10

For each certificate of imprisonment, to be signed by the Jailor, or Clerk, in applications for the Act of Grace, &c. - ^010

For each certificate, attested by the Magistrates, in processes of Cessio Bonorum, and for writing the same, - - 0 2 6

For Borrowings, and inspection of the Warrants of Record, - - 0 0 6

Ordain this Act of Council to be extracted; and a printed copy thereof to be affixed on the wall of every room in the prison, for the inspection of all concerned; and the Jailor and Clerk to regulate themselves thereby, under the penalty of ten pounds Scots, toties quoties, payable to the Charity Work-house of Canongate. All disputes, relative to the premises, to be determined by the Magistrates for the time being.

Extracted by

JAMES TAITJ7

tN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 10$

EDINBURGH.

IIolyrood House,

Of which hts Grace the Duke of Hamilton is Hereditary Keeper.

Warden, William Petrie:To whom half a merk

(sixpence three farthings a day) is paid

by each debtor.

There were no prisoners at my visit, lGth Sept. 1802.

Allowance. They are alimented as in the Tol-booth.

REMARKS.

This aritient Royal Palace, once an Abbey, contains in it both a Prison, and an Asylum.

One room above-stairs, with a fire-place in it, arid a window looking into the court-yard, is set apart for confining those who contract debts within the Abbey.

It has also the privilege of exempting from arrest all who flee hither for protection, from any part of the kingdom, on first applying to the Recorder, and paying fifteen shillings each for the registry of their names.

The boundaries of security, or Verge, are, ori the Park side, of considerable extent. But whoever, thus privileged, originates a debt here, may be arrested for the same, and confined in the prison, as above.

N

194 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS TOR DEBTORS

ELY GAOL.

Gaoler, Benjamin Barlcw; Sheriff1 s Officer. Salary, 40l. and 11, l.s. a year to furnish straw; Fees, Debtors, ids. 8d. No Table.

Chaplain, Rev. Charles Mules.

Salary, 201. Duty, once a week.

Surgeon, Mr. Muriel; who makes a bill.

^ 1801, Aug. 20th, - 1

Number of Debtors, < 1802, Aug. 8th, - 2

11805, Aug. 25th, - 0

Allowance. To Debtors who are very poor, a loaf of wheat bread, weight 2\ lbs. every day.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is the property of the Bishop, who is Lord of the Franchise of the Isle of Ely: It was, in part, rebuilt by Bishop Mawson, in l/bS, upon complaint of the cruel method which, for want of a safe gaol, the Keeper took to secure his prisoners. ((This” Mr. Howard informs us, “ was done hr/' chaining them down on their hacks upon a floor, across which were twenty-six-iron-bars, with an iron collar with spikes about their necks, and a heavy Iron bar across their legs *

This prison is much improved since my visit in 1802. Too much praise cannot be. given to the

visiting

IN ENGLAND; SCOTLAND; AND WALES.

195

visiting Magistrates, for causing all unnecessary severity to be discontinued; for its better ventilation, county-clothing, and bath; for the regular entry of their visits in a book; and for the great cleanliness and good order in which every part is kept. Tor Debtors there are three good-sized rooms upstairs; and another, called, the Nursery room, set apart for the sick, with a fire-place in it. One iron bedstead (made a present of to the Gaol by the Bishop’s Lady), and one wooden bedstead for the Nursery. The Keeper furnishes beds at l, s\ Is. 6d. and Us. per week, according to the circumstances of the prisoner. The windows are glazed, and have sloping boards, to prevent prisoners’ looking to the street. Only one court, about 15 yards by 13; it is well supplied with water. If a Debtor behaves well, he is indulged with the liberty of the Keepers garden; and the two debtors were walking in it when I came there. Every Sunday a begging-box is carried about the two parishes. Trinity and St. Mary, for all the prisoners; and the collection, when I was there, amounted to Qd. each. Debtors from the Court of Requests are sent here; and the costs 6s. id. to recover a debt of ten shillings. No Chapel: divine service is performed in the Keeper’s house.

N

196 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

EXETER City) and County Gaol.

Gaoler, Richard Tarbart. Salary, 30l. lOs, Fees, Debtors, 16s. 8d. No Table.

Under Sheriff’s liberate 3s.

Garnish, Debtors, 2s.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. JTalker; for Felons only. Salary, none; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, icuj, v/^l. uui, - 3

11806‘, Sept. 20‘th, - 4

Allowance. See Remarks.

This Prison is in the South Gate, from which it takes its name; and has, in the Keeper’s house, two rooms (the Long Room and Shoe). A shoe was formerly suspended by a string from the iron-grated window towards the street, for passengers to put money in; but is now discontinued, by order of the magistrates. The room called the Shoe is for debtors who bring their own beds, and pay Gd. a week. The Long Room is for debtors to walk in, there-being no court-yard. There are also nine rooms, to which the Gaoler furnishes beds and bedding, from 3s. to 10s. Gd. per wreck, according to the prisoner’s

REMARKS.

circuin-

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

w

circumstances. Here are sent 6‘0 penny loaves (weight Gth October, lSo.3, tjl oz. each) every week to the debtors:if only one, he has the whole batch; if more, they are equally divided amongst them. From what legacies they come is not known in the Gaol; but the Keeper gave me the following account. u Mr. and Mrs. Seldon’s legacy, cls. Gd. Mrs. Pengelly, U. Mrs. Reed, Gd. and the Chamber of Exeter, Is. Total, 5s.” Besides this weekly allowance, the Tailors' Company give is. 4d. on Easter Eve; and at the same time debtors receive from the Chamber 3G penny loaves, and the like number at Christmas. There are two painted boards, which contain memorials of sundry bequests:they ai; e not dated; one of them seems very antient. Legacies.

“ A Memorial of certayne Guyftes, to the yeerlie “ value of Twenty Poundes, geeven by Laurence u Seldon and Elizabeth his wife, to be distributed “ by the Maior and Raylifi'es of the Citie of Exon “ for ever; as followeth:I. £, d.

“ In bread, week lie, to the Poore u Prisoners in the Kinge’s Gaol <f near the castell of Exon, — 0 0 6Y *

(Not paid these many years).

“ Prisoners in the Sherive’s warde,

<c gaole, and county of the cittie, of Exon, ~ ~ ~ 0.2 G *

Che

I$8 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS ‘

The other Memorial, on the second board, is as follows:

“ Exon, 1 u Mrs. Hester Reed gave six-

South Gate. J pence a week for ever to this prison; to be paid out of a tenement called Jren, in the parish of Cullumton, and laid out in middling wheat bread, and distributed always to the prisoners in the iShew."

The following memorial is framed and hung up:

“ Francis Pengelly, of this city, apothecary, by deed, dated the 1st of January, 1/00, gave two pounds twelve shillings a year, to be laid out in bread, for the use of the debtors in this prison for ever; issuing out of his estate called the Dolphin Inn, and premises adjoining, situate in the parish of St. Mary Major, in the said city.”

This estate was sold in 1805, and 1095/. 19s. 6d. 3 pei' Cent. Consolidated Annuities purchased with the produce, in the names of IE. R. Kennaiuay, Thomas Smith, A. Tozer, and G. Gifford. Debtors likewise receive ten shillings yearly from the Chamber of Exeter, on the Monday fortnight following St. Michael’s day. Ten Shillings a year from the Church, at the disposal of the Keeper; and sixpence a year from the Lay-Vicars of the Church the day their Court is held at JEoodberry.

There is no memorial in the prisons at Exeter of the following donations, mentioned in Richard

Fetches

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 139

Dacha's Alphabetical Register, Sec. printed in 17‘>f7. Sueli valuable registers of persons’ last wills, grants, See. in other cities, would prevent the misapplication of many charities.

Reynold llayne, in 1354, bequeathed all bis lands and tenements, lying in the suburbs of the said city, to the Cathedral Church of St. Peter there, for the relief of those imprisoned in the common, gaol. This legacy appears to be lost.

William Paramore, by will, 22d February, I5f0, bequeathed to the needy prisoners of the King’s Gaol in Exeter, in the South Gate there, and in the Counters, to every of them, ten shillings for ever, yearly, to be paid out of his lands in the Cook Row, in Exeter.

This is regularly paid to the prisoners in the South Gate.

Thomas Bridgeman, by will, 3d April, lb-41, gave to the said city the sum of sixty pounds, to be continued as a perpetual stock; whereof the interest of forty pounds to be bestowed upon the prisoners in the upper prison; and the interest of the other twenty pounds to be bestowed upon the prisoners in the lower prison; and this likewise to continue for ever. This legacy appears to be lost.

JEdward Young, I). D. bth June, lbb3, by will, gave twenty shillings a year to the prisoners of the Castle, to be distributed, by the Dean of Exeter for the time being, on the 29th of May.

500

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOll DEBTORS .

EXETER.

Sheriff's I yard, St. Thomas's.

The County Prison for Debtors.

Gaoler, Richard Rice.

Salary, 25l. Fees, as per Table.

Garnish. Prohibited by the Rules, but generally exacted by the prisoners.

Chaplain. None, nor apy religious attention whatever!

Surgeon. None!

Number of Debtors,

1600, April 1st, - 33 1803, Oct. Cth, 32

1802, Jan. 2.9 th, - 45 180S, Sept. 13th, - lp

Allowance. None at mvfirst visits; but now, in cases of extreme poverty, upon application to the Magistrates, two shillings per week,

REMARKS.

The Sheriff’s Ward, or Prison, is in the parish of St. Thomas the Apostle. The boundary-wall is of mud, with a thatch coping, except a small part of brick, which fronts the street. It encloses about an acre of ground, and from the Turnkey’s

Lodge

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 201

Lodge to the Prison is a walk of 6*0 yards, shaded by a double row of large elms, and well supplied with water. At the left entrance of the prison is a room 1, 9 feet by lS, which still retains the name of Churcii:the reading-desk remains, and on the walls are portions of scripture; but it is now the common day-room. On the right of the passage is a room called the Pin-hole, with a fire-place and glazed window, where debtors dress their provisions; and adjoining to it is the Strong Room, which has a lire-place and small glazed window, a barrack bedstead, but no bedding, not even straw, to sleep upon:this is the only free ward in the prison. Por Master’s-side Debtors there are seven rooms, with beds and bedding furnished by the Keeper, for which they pay as per following Table:one of the rooms has seven beds, and two slept in each bed. Common-side debtors have six rooms, and each pays 6d. a week; but neither bedding, nor straw. Two •were sick in bed; another had the jaundice, and a fourth was in the last stage of a consumption, at my visit in 1803, without any medical assistance. The building is very old, the rooms dirty, and swarming with bugs. It is fortunate, in so crowded a prison, that the court is spacious and airy. Here are Rules and Orders, signed by the Under-Sheriff only, and no attention is paid to them. There are constant broils between the keeper and his prisoners;

and

202

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

and it is difficult to determine where the fault most lies. The Gaoler says, no magistrate ever comes therey without being sent for; and any one visiting this prison must see the necessity of Rules and Orders for Prisoners and Keepers being fixed by the Legislature. The Gaoler adds, that his salary is so small, his whole dependence is on the hire of his beds and prison-fees. It is difficult to conceive the extreme wretchedness and misery this Gaol exhibits, the debtors, for the most part, being mechanicks and labourers. No employment, nor rooms to work in, if it were procured. One prisoner (Anne Fisher, committed for contempt, 13th Nov. 1791) I saw here in 1803:but at my last visit she was discharged.

Table of Fees, for the Sheriffs Ward, Settled and established at the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace, held 14th April, 1801.

£. s. d.

“ For the Commitment Fees of every Prisoner for debt, damages, and contempt, though it be for several actions

or processes only — 0 13 4

“ For every liberate 0 0 0

11 For the Turnkey 0 1 0

“ For the use of a bed in a single room

for one person per week 0 3 0

“ 1 7or

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

203

“ For the use of a bed in a room wherein are two, or beds and two lodge in each bed, then for each prisoner - 0 1 3

“For the use of a bed in a room wherein are two or more beds, and one only in each bed -02-6

ee For the use of the Common Room, if the Keeper finds bedding, each person per week - - 0 10

“ If the prisoner finds bedding - O 0 6

u Devon. Easter Sessions, 1801. We allow and approve of the above Table of Fees to be taken at the Sheriff*’; s Ward of the said County.

J. B. Ciiolwick, Chairman.

W. F. Hall.

J. Newcombe.”

Lammas Assizes, 1801.

“ We do allow and confirm the above Table of Fees,

S. Le Blanc. Rob. Graham. *

FISHERTON ANGER GAOL. See SALISBURY.

£04 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

FLEET PRISON; London.

Warden, John Lyles, Esq.

Deputy Warden, and Clerk of the Papers,

Mr. Nicholas Nixon.

Commitment Fees, 1 /. 6s. 8d. to the Warden, and - - 2s. - to tReTurnkey.

Discharge Fees, - ~s. 4d. to the Warden,

and - 2s. 6d. to the Clerk of

the Papers for every discharge of every action. Licence: Beer and Wine to Robert Richards, who is Tapster to the Warden.

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. John Manley Wood, M.A.

Duty. Sunday, Prayers and Sermon; and oil Good Friday and Christmas-day the Sacrament is administered.

Salary, ^0/. paid by the Warden.

Surgeon. None. No medical assistance in casC of sickness.

Number of Debtors,

1802, Jan. 11 th, in the Prison, - - 230

In the Rules, - - 75

Total, 305

1803,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 2qr

1803, Dec. loth, in the Prison, In the Rules,

- 229 - 6‘;

Total, oljG

The average nimiber within the walls

I11 the Rules,

" 230

70

Allowance. See Remarks.

REMARKS.

The Fleet became a Prison for Debtors, and for persons charged with contempt of the Courts of Chancery, Exchequer, and Common Pleas, in the ldth of Charles I. after the abolition of the Star Chamber.

In 1728, many abuses practised by the Warden were the subject of Parliamentary inquiry; and Mr. Oglethorpe, from the Committee appointed to enquire into the state of the Gaols, made several reports of many grievous abuses practised in the Fleet, jMarshalsea, and King’s-Bench; in consequence of which many useful regulations were enacted.

In the front is a narrow court-yard. At each end of the building is a small projection, or wing. There are four floors, called Gallerias; besides the cellar-floor, called Bartholomew Fair. Each gallery consists of a passage in the middle, the whole length of the prison, sixty-six yards; and of rooms on each

side

206

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTOR9

side of it, about fourteen feet and a half by twelve and a half, and nine feet and a half hi^h. A chim-

y O

ney and window in every room, except three, called Slip Rooms, and without a chimney. The passages are narrow (not seven feet wide) and dark, having only one window at each end.

On the first floor, the hall-gallery, to which you ascend by eight steps, are a tap-room, a room called the Cellar-head, another for one of the turnkeys, and nineteen rooms for the prisoners; at the North end of which is the Chapel.

The Cellar Jloor is sixteen steps below the hall-gallery. It consists of the public kitchen, four large beer and wine-cellars, sixteen rooms for prisoners, and one for another of the turnkeys.

When I was there (22d March, 1807) I was surprized to find only eleven debtors attended divine service 1 the excuse being, that the chapel was cold and damp. A fire-place in it, and coals allowed, would be a very great improvement; and I have no doubt the chapel would be then well filled to hear the excellent preacher.

In the Coffee-room gallery (the next above the hall), are the Coffee-room, made out of two, the Strong-room, for refractory prisoners, and twenty-two more for those of other descriptions.

In the third gallery, above the coffee-room, are

twenty-

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 207

twenty-six others, and a room at the North end. Over the chapel is an Infirmary.

In the top gallery are twenty-seven rooms; some of which, being over the chapel, are larger than the rest.

All the rooms I have here mentioned are for Master-side Debtors, at the weekly rent of Is. %d. unfurnished.

They fall to the prisoners in succession, (except those called 'Bartholomew-fair, which are in theentire disposal of the Warden) that is, when a room becomes vacant, the first prisoner upon the list of such as have paid their commitment-fees succeeds to it. When the prison was built, the Warden gave each prisoner $iis choice of a room, according to his seniority.

If all the rooms be occupied, a new-comer, upon the payment of his commitment-fees, is chammd (as they term it) on the next room in rotation, beginning at No. 1 in the hall-gallery.

The apartments for Common-side Debtors are only part of the right-wing of the prison. Besides the cellar (which was intended for the kitchen, but is now occupied with lumber, and shut up), ther^ Are four floors. On each floor is a room near twenty-five feet square, with a fire-place; and on the sides seven closets, or cabins, to sleep in.

Such of the prisoners as swear in court, or before a Commissioner, that they are not worth five

208 ACCOUNT OF PRISON'S' for debtors

pounds, and cannot subsist without charity, partake of the casual donations which are sent to the prison and the begging-grate. Of this description there are generally about eight or ten prisoners. In the report of the Committee of the House of Commons, 17^S, there is a table of some charities; and it was ordered, by the Judges Eyre, Price, Page, and Denton, “That a Table of Gifts and Bequests made for the Prisoners in the Fleet, expressing the particular purposes for which they were given, should be prepared by the Warden, and hung up in the halL of the said prison.” (See Table of Fees, Trim Term. 1727, in the Report of the Gaol Committee, p. id.} It is hung up in the begging-grate room instead of the hall, that being the proper place.

Here is plenty of water, both from the river and pumps, and a spacious yard behind the prison, where the prisoners play at skittles, fives, tennis, &c.; and not only the prisoners, but strangers, who are admitted' here as at any other public place of amusement!

On Monday and Thursday nights here is a Wins and Beer Club, which sometimes is kept up even till two or three o’clock in the morning ! Those strangers who frequent these gross compotations u must depart at eleven, or remain all night ” Surely

this frequenting of a Gaol, must lessen the salutary dread of being confined in one !

Seeing the place always crowded with ivomen and children, I procured an accurate list of them,

and

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 20$

and found that in February, 1801, there were 230 prisoners. Their wives (including women of an appellation not so honourable) and children were about 200; and, on the 10th December, IS03, the number of prisoners 229, their wives, &c. 14S, and children, 391. I11 all 7bS men, women, and chil-

dren, living in the prison. One poor man had his wife and five children with him there. On every visit to this prison I found the staircases and lobbies very dirty; and that every one preserved that degree of cleanliness in his own room which satisfied himself.

There isaTableof Fees to be taken by the Clerk of the Papers and Clerk of Enquiries, in the oil ice, but not hung up in the prison. It is as follows:

i(Table of Fees to be taken by the Clerk of the Papers and Clerk of Enquiries of the Fleet Prison, pursuant to the Resolution of the Honourable Court of Common Pleas, in the Easter and Trinity Terms, 13 George I. 1 “27-

Resolution,

.9. d.

That there is clue, and ought to be paid, to the Clerk of the Papers, for every discharge of every action, - - 0 2 6

And for the copy of every cause, not exceeding three,

O

0 1 0 And

210

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

£. s. d.

And for each and every cause, exceeding three causes, besides the one shilling apiece for each of the said first three causes, - -0 0 4-

[* That there is due, and ought to l>c paid, to the Clerk of the Papers, for his certificate of the prisoner’s discharge, delivered to the prisoner himself, without any regard to the number of causes lie stood charged with, - - 0 2 6 '

And for his certificate to the Warden of

such discharge, - - 0 2 6

That there is due, and ought to he paid, to the Clerk of the Enquiries, on the discharge of a prisoner by the creditor, and not by supersedeas, - 0 2 6]

That there is a fee of 5s. 4d. due to the Clerk of the Papers, for the allowance of every Writ of Habeas Corpus; and 4-?. for the return of the first cause, and 2s. for every other cause, and no more.”

Hie Warden's and his ollicers’ duty are in the Hides and Orders of Hilary Term, g George II. If 2$. They consist of 29 articles, signed II. Eyre? Robert Price, Alexander Denton, J. For fescue; and are hung tip in the Coffee-room and dap-room.

The Clauses against Spirits are hung up on the large door entering into the prison.

* None of these three Fees are taken; the Clerk of the Papers' thinking them unreasonable and unnecessary. The rest in this Table are taken.

The

iN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

21 1

The following’ Table of Fees is correct, and hung lip in the prison.

‘‘ ATaijle or Fees, to be taken by the Warden of the Prison of the Fleet, for any prisoner or prisoners’ commitment, or coming into Gaol, or Chamber-rent there., or discharge from thence, in any Civil Action; settled ayid established the 19th day of January, in the third year of the reign of his Majesty King George the Second, A. IX 1^29, pursuant to an Act lately made, intituled, “An Act for the Relief of Debtors, in respect to the Imprisonment of their Persons.”

iji. l/.

Every prisoner charged with 011c or more actions, who, al his own desire, shall go on the Master’s Side, to pay to the Warden, for a commitment-fee, - - - 1 G S

Every prisoner charged with one or more actions, who shall go on the Common Side, not being entitled to partake of the poor’s box, to pay - - ~ - 0 13 4 *

Every person entitled to partake of the poor’s box 0 0 0

Every prisoner to pay for his discharge - - 0 1 4-

Every such prisoner on the Master’s Side, who, at his own desire, shall have a bed to himself, to pay for chamber-room, use of bed, bedding, and sheets, to the Warden, per week, - - - 0 2 6

If two in a bed, ’and no more, for chamber-room, use of bed, bedding, sheets, each to pay to the Warden per week,

« 2

0

I 3

If

212

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

£ S. d.

If the prisoner finds his own bed, bedding, and sheets (which the Warden is in no sort to hinder him of), then he shall pay for chamber-room to the Warden per week, 0 I 3

If there be two prisoners in one bed, finding their own bed, bedding, and sheets, then each of them to pay to the Warden per week, - - 0 0 7|

Every prisoner not being entitled to partake of the poor's box, to pay to the porter and gaoler, now called Turnkeys, on his commitment, - - 020

Every prisoner, on a commitment upon a surrender at a Judge’s chamber, to pay to the Tipstaff - - - 0 6 8

Every prisoner, on a commitment upon a Habeas Corpus at a Judge’s chamber, to pay to the Tipstaff - - - 042

Every prisoner on a commitment in court to

pay to the Tipstaff - - 0 7 6

No other Fees for any prisoner, for the use of chamber, bed, bedding, or sheets, or upon commitment or discharge of any prisoner in any civil action; nor any commitment-fee to be taken of any prisoner intitled to partake of the poor’s box; nor any chamber-rent to be taken of any prisoner on the Common Side. R. Raymond.

R. Eyre.

Ed. Bellamy. Tiio. Penoelly.”

John Thompson.

Rob. Aesop.

John Barnaul*.

A Li^t

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

c> 1 ft

A List of Donations paid to the Prisoners on the Begging Grate of the Common Side of the Pleet Prison. Copied from the board liuug up.

r£. S. (I.

111. From the Court of Chancery, lliiaiy, Trinity, and Michaelmas Terms, 5/. 5s. each Term, - -15150

2. From the Court of Common Pleas, 3/.

every Term, - - 12 0 O

3. From the Court of Exchequer, 6s. 8d.

every Term, - - - 1 G S

4. From the Company of Drapers, annually,

at Christmas, - - _ _ -110 0

5. From the Company of Leathersellers, at

Lady-day, Midsummer, and Michaelmas Quarters, 4s. each; and at Christmas 6s.; and Bread, 2s. 6d. each *, - - 18 0

6. From the Company of Merchant ^aylors

at Christmas, - - -1100

7. From the Company of Sadlers, 2s. 6(1. each

Quarter, - -0100

8. From the Abp. of Canterbury, at Christmas 1 0 0

9. From St. Bartholomew’s Hospital at ditto, 113 0

10. From St. Ethelburg’s parish at ditto, -090

11. From a person unknown, every Easter Mon-

day, from the Grange Inn, Carey-street f, 2 0 0

12. The Gift of Mr. Thomas Stretchly, every

three years, - - - 200

13. Executors of Mrs. Misson, in lieu of forty-

eight stone of Meat, at 2s. Sd. per stone, at Christmas J, - - 4 6 1

14. - Warden of the Fleet, at Christmas, - 1 1 o”

* k. 8d. is received in bread.

-f This is paid in January.

X Mrs. Misson’s legacy, by the copy of her will in my possession, is the produce of ?.oq/. India Annuities, now changed into 3 per Cent. Consols. Mot regularly paid,

14 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

FLINT; North /Tales.

Gaoler, Robert FTilltams. Salary 45^-

Fees; 6s. besides which the Under-Slier iff demands 3-s- 6d. for his liberate.

Garnish; none.

Chaplain, Rev. George Davies.

Duty, once in every month ! Salary, 201.

Surgeon, Mr. Joseph Inglehj. Salary, 30l.

Number of Debtors, { lS00> A>)nt 3d’ ' ' 3

I 1802, Oct. 23d, - - 3

Allowance. Four shillings per week; out of vhieh one shilling is paid for a bed.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, built on a fine spot near the old castle, is also the Bridewell. The Keeper’s apartments are in front. One court, about 15 yards square, with a sewer and pump in it for debtors:those on the Common Side have a free ward on the ground-floor, about 24 feet by 15, which is also their day-room. Master Side debtors have five spacious rooms, light and airy, upstairs; there are fire-places in four of them. A room set apart for the sick; and two baths. Rules and Orders, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, hung up, but not the Act for Preservation of Health, The Prison clean *

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

215

GILTSPUR STREET COMPTER.

Gaoler, John Teague.

Salary, 150l. by the Court of Aldermen, and 30/. by the Common Council.

Chaplain, Rev. Air. Edmunds.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Sunday.

Salary, 50l.

Surgeon, Air. Hodgson.

Salary, 80l. for the two Compters, and Ludgate.

Number of Debtors,

1800, April 15 th, - 28 0 CO Aug. 31st, - 30

c\ 0 CO Sept. I Oth, - 26 ►—I 00 0 ZJI April 13 th, ~ 35

1802, Feb. 27th, - 30 180 6, Alay 26‘th, - 45

1803, 1 *\ +- O r—4 Jy, 3 54 1807, Feb. ldth. - 37

Allowance. (See Remarks.)

REAIARKS.

The origin of this prison is somewhat enveloped in obscurity; but, according to Stowe's Survey of London, wherein the following record, made in the reign of Edward the First, is recited, viz. u licx vie. iC London, salutem:ex gravi queredd R. capt. et “ detent, in prisond nostrd dc Criplesgate pro x/.

“ quas

216 *

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

e(qiias coram Radidpho de Sandicico, time custocL “ Civitatis nostra? London, et I. de Blackwell civis cc rccognit. debit. &c.” it appears that Cripplegate, which was one of the four original gates of this city, was then a prison, as the Compter now is, for citizens and others, for debt or trespass; and was rebuilt in the year 1244, and again in 1491; and was last repaired in the year 1663. In the mean time, and in the 13th century, a prison was built for the reception of night-walkers, and other suspicious persons; which, from its shape, was called the Tun, and was situated upon Cornhill. Afterwards there was a prison in Bread-street, pertaining to the Sheriffs, which was called the Compter; and, in the year 1518, seems to have been recognized by^the Act for establishing the Court of Conscience, which empowered its Commissioners to commit to one of the Compters, for debts not exceeding forty shillings; but now, by subsequent acts, extended to five pounds. In this Compter prisoners were received until the year 1552; when, by reason of the keeper’s misconduct, they were removed to a new Compter in Wood-street, provided by the city, and built for that purpose. This was burned in the general conflagration of 1666, and being rebuilt more com mo-diously than before, continued to receive prisoners until April 2d, 17, 91, when they were transferred to the present Compter in Giltspur-street:

It

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALE; *.

217

It appears necessary here to remark, that the Sheriffs of London have each a Court of Record, as well as a Compter, where each Sheriff) in his respective court, presides. These courts are now held at Guildhall, every Wednesday and Friday, for actions, &c. entered at this Compter; and on every Thursday and Saturday for actions entered at the Poultry, excepting holidays, and a vacation in the month of August; and each Sheriff has his office at his respective Compter, where his clerk-sitter attends for entering actions, &c. and also to discharge such debtors as become entitled to their release.

- This Compter is now appropriated for the reception of debtors; of felons, and other offenders; and also of vagrants and night-charges (the watch-houses in this city not being permitted to retain prisoners there): But the constable of the night must forthwith commit them to the Compter in his district; from whence a list of the night-charges so committed, is, the next morning, returned to the Lord Mayor, or one of the Aldermen; in order that they may be examined touching the cause of their commitment, and be either discharged, bailed, or recommitted, to answer for their respective offences, according to due course of law.

The prisoners are divided into four classes; viz. Debtors, Felons, Misdemeanors and Assaults, and Vagrants; and the prison into nine separate and

distinct

218

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS lOll DEBTORS

distinct yards:that is to say. The Master's Side, South-yard, 28 feet by 20, containing a pump, affording soft water from the river Thames, and from whence a stair-case leads to two galleries, having each a sink and a cock supplying Thames-water; which is thrown by a forcing-pump from a reservoir in the main yard to a large cistern on the top of that part of the prison, and descends from thence to the galleries:but here a difficulty sometimes

O %/

occurs, from the forcing pump being out of the reach of the persons to be benefited thereby. These galleries lead to six rooms (exclusive of the Turnkey’s-room on the ground-floor), having fire-places, capable of conveniently accommodating two persons in each, male or female, as it may happen, provided that a man-prisoner is not lodged in the same apartment with a woman-prisoner: and these apartments are at present occupied by Master-side debtors, who pay for the same according to the Table of Fees hereafter mentioned.

2d. The Master’s Side, North yard, £0 feet by lS, being similar to the South in its construction and accommodations, but containing only five rooms with fire-places; (exclusive of another Turnkey’s room on the ground-floor,) and is at present occupied by persons under commitment for assaults, or trivial offences; as also, occasionally, by the better sort of night-charges.

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 21J)

The Women Debtors’ Ward has no yard, hut attaches immediately to an arched passage, that leads to the Keeper’s domestic Apartments, his Office, the Outer Turnkey’s Lodge, and the office wherein is transacted the Sheriffs’ business wi til respect to matters relating to his Court, and to this Prison. This passage also contains all the main gates, or first entrances to the Master’s Side, and to the interior of the prison. The Women Debtors’ Ward is supplied with four turn-up bedsteads, (which are inclosed in the day-time), a table, and moveable benches, a water-closet, and a large cistern of Thames water, with a good stone sink beneath it. The Ward has three windows next the street, a good fire-place, and is capable of lodging eight persons.

gd. The Common Side, Men Debtors’ Yard, 75 feet by 18, contains two pumps, the one supplying spring water from a well in this yard, and the other affording soft water from the river Thames. It has a room ^t each end; one of them occupied by a Turnkey, for the better security of the prison, and the other by the Steward of the Charity-wards. The wards appertaining to this yard are built upon arches, and divide the same into two parts; having communication by arcades under one part, and a common room, used as a workshop for those Debtors who chuse to work, under the other:in which

shop

220

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

shop is a large table fixed, whereon the prisoners belonging to these wards divide such provisions as they receive by charitable donation. From this yard is a stone staircase, closed with doors at the bottom, and leading to-four wards; two on the first story, and two on the second. The two upper wards are used as bedrooms, and are fitted up with sixteen low stump bedsteads in each (which lay upon barrack-forms, easily removed for the purpose of cleanliness), and a supply of rugs for the use of the prisoners. The other two wards are used as sitting-rooms, from eight in the morning until ten at night, when strangers are excluded, and the prisoners locked up for the night. The Sleeping-wards would be much improved, if all the beds were separated by dwarf partitions, having a door to each, but not reaching to the cieling:Thus a free circulation of air would not be impeded, and the quiet prisoners would be protected from the insults of the disorderly in the night-time; an evil which has sometimes occurred, but the offenders are seldom discovered. The Sitting-wards are fitted up with tables and benches.

These wards, together with that of the women debtors, are denominated the Charity-wards; to which each prisoner, at his or her entrance, pays five shillings, to be applied to the common stock; eight pence to the steward, and six-pence to the

scavenger;

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALL'S.

2 2 1

scavenger; after which, the prisoner is at no farther expence, but becomes a partaker of all the benefits appertaining to the Charity-wards. The Court of Conscience Debtors, for six weeeks or less, have the same benefits, upon payment of fourteen pence on I}'.

4th. The Main Yard, 35 feet square, leading to all the rest, except the Master’s Side and Women Debtors, into which all persons in the adjoining yards (except debtors) are occasionally admitted in the day-time, at their own request; and upon behaving themselves orderly, but not otherwise. This yard contains two pumps, one of spring-water, the other from the Thames; also two forcing pumps, for the service of the Master’s side, and a cock supplied with Thames-water upon the Main; to which, by means of a screw, can be applied a long leathern hose, and thereby plenty of water is conveyed to all the yards, to wash both them and the cells. For this purpose mops and brooms are occasionally allowed by the benevolence of the Committee of City Lands, &c. On the North and South sides are ’two large rooms facing each other, and having communication with the arched passage before mentioned; which rooms are occupied in the day-time by those who desire it, and at night are the common receptacles for night-charges*. They are fitted up with

* These two rooms are now, 1807, appropriated to debtors; and night-charges and criminals sent to the Poultry, till a new prison is built.

benches

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DtM'ORS

222

benches all round, and a large German stove in both. They have detached privies, and are capable of containing about twenty persons each, for one night only; such night-charges being afterward classed as aforesaid, having first undergone their examination before a magistrate. These rooms have stone floors; they are spacious, and very airy; and have a number of rugs laid on the benches, for the use of such persons as unfortunately may become inhabitants in the night-time. Under another arched passage leading from this yard, is the Inner Turnkey’s Lodge, and a staircase leading to a very convenient Chapel; over which are four good rooms, for the use of the sick prisoners, fitted up with iron bedsteads, good tickings, blankets, and rugs; and canvass cases, to be stuffed for making beds, as occasion may require.

From this yard are two other staircases; each leading to three small bedrooms, fitted up at the keeper’s expence, for the use of such night-charges, of others, as may desire to occupy them; having one bed in each room.

The above passage communicates with five other yards, separate and distinct from each other:one being a small yard, with a pump of Thames-water, and containing three scanty rooms, or cells, capable of lodging six persons. Another small yard, equally supplied from the Thames, contains five rooms

or

IN ENGLAND, SCOTHNO. WUWAl.K*. J

or ceils of the same dimensions. At the hack of lour of these rooms is a passage, with a tire-place at the end; which communicating, by means of an iron-grating, to each cell, thereby renders them dry and warm.

The next yard, furnished in like manner with water, has a room with a fire-place, and four cells of the same dimensions; and near to this are 'two larger yards, having six cells of the like size, together with similar passages, and fire-places to keep them comfortably warm:The cells are all fitted up with barrack bedsteads, raised about three feet from the ground; each provided with a canvass case stuffed with straw, and two or three rugs, or blankets, allowed by the City.

These last five yards are for the reception of all prioners, except debtors. No persons here, or in the Charity-wards, pay any thing for lodging; and garnish is prohibited in every part of this prison. Here are also very convenient cold and hot baths, to which all prisoners have free access, as necessity requires, and at convenient seasons. There are twu Tooms set apart for the sick, one 18 feet by 14, the other 14 feet by 12, and 12 feet high:and two other rooms of the same size, which can easily be converted into Sick wards, if necessary.

The allowance to prisoners, of all descriptions, is at

present

224

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

present—ten ounces of wheaten bread daily, one pound of rice, and about five pounds of potatoes each weekly:coals and other gifts by the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs; and broken victuals from the Old and New London Taverns frequently.

Paupers, brought to this Compter (as such) in order to be removed to their parishes, or otherwise relieved, are especially subsisted, and frequently clothed.

The gifts by the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs, at Christmas, New-year’s day, Easter, and some uncertain day after, are the same as mentioned in my subsequent description of “ Ludgate

Here are also some permanent Donations of bread and meat at stated periods; which, together with the Sheriffs’ seven stone of meat weekly, belong to the Charity-wards only; and are distributed among such prisoners in the said wards as have attended, and properly demeaned themselves in the chapel, during divine service on the preceding Sunday. These, in the way of ridicule, are called Beef-eaters, by the profligate few who absent themselves:But nearly the whole attended divine service when I was here in March, lSCff., and their behaviour was orderly, and attentive to a very appropriate discourse. The chapel clerk is Mr. John Peter Lawrence, who

receives

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES

receives half a crown every Sunday, for assisting the Chaplain, and setting the psalm, by order of the Court of Aldermen.

Money is paid by several of the City Companies, by the Common Council of Farringdon Within, by the Trustees of Mrs. Ashton's charity, and by others, towards the release of debtors in this and other prisons; and is applied as stated in the account of Ludgate.

Giltspur Street Compter Donations. ChrisTxMas Quarter.

When paid.

Yearly -

' Quarterly -

Yearly -

Quarterly___

Ditto -

Ditto -

Yearly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Half-Yearly.

Quarterly___

Yearly -

Ditto -

Every 3 years

Every other ‘

Donors’ Names.

Sir John Kendrick, Knt.

Mr. Meridith -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Mr. Peter Blundell

Mr. Peak -

Mr. Chapman -

Mr. John Wooller -

Mr. William Parker_____

Mrs. Holligrave -

Mr. Shields -

Mr. Clarke -

Ur. James Hodgson_____

Sir William Middleton Sir Thomas Gresham - Archbp. of Canterbury

Mr. Thomas Dawson ..

Mr. Thomas Stretchly..

By whom paid.

Drapers Company Leathersellers Com

Ditto -

Skinners Company

Ditto -

Mr. Dunnage -

•St. Pancras Parish Merchant TaylorsComp

Ditto -

Clothworkers Company

Cooks Company -

Mr. Hodgson -

St. Sepulchre’s Parish.. Chamoerlain’s Office .

Ditto -

At Lambeth Palace*..

Churchwardens of)St. Ethelbutgh Christ’s Hospital -

Amount.

2 0 0

’ 0 4 10

0 6 0

0 5 6

0 10 0

1 4 0

0 5 0

1 0 0

2 0 0

0 5 0

2 0 0

1 0 0

0 10 0

1 11 3

* 2 10 0

i 0 0

0 9 0

o 0 0

19 0 7

• ? 5

year in Beefy j .. at Christmas.)1 Annually Nov. 5.

Quarterly, Lea________

Ey«ry eight weeks, |

r, ^, C Regularly paid b\- Church-

Joseph Carter l.s. Id. ?)wa=de, s \f St. Aml; , v Un.

Ralph Carter 1 <s. Id. £ J jer, hllft and Allhallous.

Of Bread, Mrs. Margaret Dane. One quarter of Beef, and

five dozen Penny Loaves.

Quarterly, Leathersellers Company, Ninety-one Penny Loaves.

Mrs. Margaret Symeott, )penny Loavcs.

Eleanor Gwyn’s gift,

V

Lady *

. 226

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Lady-Day Quarter.

When paid.

Donors’ Names.

By whom paid.

Amount.

Quarterly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Yearly -

Ditto -

Half-Yearly..

•Yearly -

Ditto -

Half Yearly..

Yearly -

Half-Yearly..

Yearly -

Ditto -

.Mr. Meridith -

Mr. Peter Blundell.

Mr. Meridith -

Mr. Peak -

j Robert Martin and)

{ John March Alderman John Hoydon 5 Robert Martin and John March

Richard Jacob -

Mrs. Joan Sanbaek -

Mr. Peter Blundell__

Sir Thomas Gresham .

Lady Ramsey -

Mr.'John Loards -

Mr. John Corbett -

Leathersellers Company Skinners Company

Ditto -

Mr. Dunnage ..

Mercers Company -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Mrs. Ann Starling -

Parish of St. Bride’s - Goldsmiths Company - Chamberlain’s Ofliee ..

Christ’s Hospital -

Ditto -

I Cooks Company -

0 4 10

0 10 0

0 5 6

1 4 0

1 7 I

4 0 9

1 O 6

1 12 0

1 0 0

1 0 0

0 10 0

l 5 0

i 10 0

o 0 0

.if. 19 10 11

Midsummer Quarter.

When paid. Donors’ Names. By whom paid. Amount.

Quarterly Ditto Mr, Meridith M r. Peter Blundell Leathersellers Company Skinners Company Ditto 0 4 10 0 10 0 0 5 6 1 4 O 2 10 0 111 3 £.6 5 7

Ditto Half-Yearly - Sir Thomas Gresham - Sir William Middleton. Michaelmas Chamberlain’s Office - Ditto Quarter.

When paid. Donor’s Names. By whom paid. Amount.

Quarterly Ditto Mr. Meridith Mr. Peter Blundell Leathersellers Company Skinners Company 0 4 10 0 10 0 0 5 6 1 2 6 1 0 0 2 10 0 1 5 0 1 4 0

Half- Yearly - Ditto Quarterly Half-Yearly - Quarterly { Robert Martin and } John March 5 Mr. Peter Blundell Sir Thomas Gresham - Lady Ramsey Mr. Peak Mercers Company Goldsmiths Company - Chamberlain’s Office - Christ’s Hospital Mr. Dumiage

£.8 I 10

All

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

227

All the donations belonging to the Charity-wards are delivered to one or the prisoners, who acts as steward; in whose name, witnessed by the Keeper, all the receipts are signed, and given under the common seal of the prison. This steward receives also the subscriptions before mentioned; and himself pays a rent to the general stock, for the use of two closets, which he again lets to his own advantage: He advances money upon the credit of the donations, out of which he reimburses himself as they become due *, pays five per cent, to a collector; furnishes the Charity-wards with a constant supply of coals, wood, salt, candles, &c. besides paying a weekly ‘ allowance to a basket-woman, to collect broken victuals at the taverns; and for other messages, on account of the said wards: also contributes towards the support of such common-side debtors as may, by the surgeon’s order, be placed in the Sick-vvard; pays also a weekly allowance to the scavenger, and his assistant, called the Tweiver; and is of real use to the prison at large. This plan, of the application of the donations, was first adopted by Mr. Kirby, when keeper of Wood-street-Comp-ter; and appears to be most beneficial to the unfortunate, as every comfort to be procured by the donations is thereby equally and impartially afforded; no disputes can arise from the quarterly division of money; nor can the prison be defrauded, as

p 2 the

228

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

the steward is obliged to submit bis accounts to be audited by four of the senior prisoners; and, though elected by the general suffrages of the Charity-wards, cannot be dispossessed, so long as he shall act soberly and honestly, for the general advantage, and not be guilty of breach of the trust reposed in him by the keeper.

There is no expence attending the commitment of prisoners to this Compter, either upon civil or criminal process; nor does any expence attend any person’s confinement, unless, at his own request, he is admitted on the Masters side. Upon Civil Actions the fees are as follows: For entrance, three shillings to the Keeper, and two shillings to the Turnkeys; for rent, two shillings and six-penge per week:But if there are two in a bed, then each pays one shilling and three pence:For the discharge of a Master’s side debtor, eight shillings and ten pence; and for the discharge of a Common-side debtor, eight shillings Debtors discharged by the Lords' Act pay no fees.

An expence is incurred by prisoners of all descriptions, upon their discharge, exclusive of prison-fees above mentioned:And first, of Debtors; each of whom, being entitled to be discharged, must pay as follows, if upon one action only:To the Secondaries

* 6s. to the Keeper, and zs. to the Turnkey:This is called the Gate-Jee.

six

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

329

51 x shillings, to the Clerk-sitter of the Poultry Compter one shilling'; to the Clerk-sitter of this Compter four shillings and eight pence, and to the Messenger one shilling. If more actions than one, the expence varies, according to the number and nature of the writs; which, if in execution, entitle the Secondaries to one shilling for every pound under the sum of one hundred pounds, and six-pence for every pound above that sum; and this is called Sheriff's Poundage *. The Fees paid by other prisoners are" as follows;

Fees during Confinement.

Every night-charge, or other prisoner upon Criminal Process, who, at his own desire, shall be accommodated with bed and bedding, must pay for the first’night two shillings, and for every other night one shilling; unless formally admitted on the Master’s Side:when, in lieu thereof, they each pay ten shillings and six-pence entrance, and three shillings and six-pence per week afterwards.

Fees upon Discharge.

s. d.

For every night-charge who shall be discharged before a Magistrate, - 3 G

* An instance of 97/. ion being paid for poundage, is in my possession.

For

230 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

For every commitment after the first exa- 5. d.

mination, discharged or bailed, - 14 8

To the Turnkey, for every copy of commitment or detainer, - — 2 0

The Rules and Orders for the government of this prison were signed the 27th of November, 17.92, by Lords Kenyon and Loughborough, and by Aldermen Crosby, Anderson, and Combe:They relate principally to Debtors; the execution thereof is vested in the Keeper and his Turnkeys; and they are as follows, that is to say: Directions concerning' the payment of six-pence to the Scavenger, or to assist him six days, and eight pence to the Steward; directions for dividing provisions; for persons under •judgment of fine and imprisonment to partake, in certain cases, with the Debtors; to promote cleanliness; for due attendance on divine service; for cleanliness of prisoners’ persons; against opprobrious language; against profaneness and drunkenness; against molesting visitors, and to prevent visitors from molesting prisoners; to prevent women from lodging in men’s apartments, and vice versa; against keeping dogs; to determine who shall not partake of donations; to prevent tippling; time of retiring to rest, and rising in the morning; against striking the steward, or defacing orders; more concerning performance of divine service; against disposal of

prison-

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 211

prison-rugs; Master’s-side prisoners to clean their stairs, passages, and rooms; not to quarrel, or use opprobrious language: concerning the placing of Master’s-side prisoners in their rooms, to prohibit the admission of wine, or beer, after eight o’clock in the evening, &c.

The mode directed by the foregoing Rules and Orders to enforce obedience thereto, is by lining, or by confinement in a cell for any time not more than twelve hours, nor less than three, for one offence, at the discretion of the Keeper.

These Rules and Orders have, in some few instances, been inadequate to preserve the peace; inasmuch as a prisoner possessing personal strength has beaten and ill-treated his fellow-prisoner, and has afterwards preferred imprisonment in the cells to making any apology, for his misbehaviour; and has come out of the cells with a determination to repeat his offence.

This Prison, from its structure, affords the means of a further improvement, respecting the first imprisonment of persons arrested upon mesne process for debt; whose separation from their families is likely to be but of short duration, and who might (if they chose) be accommodated on the Master’s-side, and be thereby saved from the necessity of being suddenly plunged into the interior of the prison, among persons, who, it may sometimes happen,

232 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

are not of the purest manners, whereby the minds of many heretofore honest men, may have been contaminated; and thus they have been rendered worse members of society than before such incarceration:. This seems to be the true intent and use of Masters’-sides in gaols, so far as relates to debtors. But such accommodation is, under the present system, liable to impediment from the occupancy of the said Master’s side by persons under execution; who may, ' if they please, remain therefor several years together, to the exclusion of unfortunate and, perhaps, innocent persons, taken upon mesne process, without the ability of procuring bail, till the cause of arrest can be determined; many of whom, from the dread of a common gaol, may have submitted to unjust demands, and become the easy prey of the profligate and designing: examples of this, it is much to be feaied, have not been wanting'. Another evil respecting prisons is, the wilful staying-in of debtors, when they might obtain their discharge; thus, by their seniority, filling the most eligible situations, and crowding the prisons, already too full of miserable and unfortunate objects.

IN' ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WA1«ES. 23$

GLASGOW Tolhooth.

Gaoler, Robert Hamilton. Salary, yol.

Fees. Felons, none. Debtors, see Table. Licence. Beer.

Garnish. Prohibited; but see Remarks.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeons, Messrs. Cowan and Young,

Number of Debtors, 1802, Sept. lSth, - 2S

Allowance. From Sd. to lSd. per day, according to their situation in life, at the discretion of the Magistrates.

REMARKS.

The Gaoler lives in a house adjoining the prison, which communicates with the Court of Session. On the first flat (or floor) there are nine rooms about seven feet square, four of which are totally dark, and without ventilation, except what is admitted through a very small aperture in the door. The other four have each a small iron-grated window: the ninth is called the iron-room, where prisoners under sen-r fence of death are chained (as at Edinburgh) to a strong iron bar, and cannot lift that foot from the

floor.

234 account of prisons for debtors .

floor. The second flat has one room for criminals, and two for debtors, about eight feet square; and the tap-room, which is about sixteen feet square, with a fire-place and window. The third flat has five rooms for debtors, eight feet square, and a larger one sixteen feet square. The fourth flat has five rooms for women., i Debtors* find their own beds; but felons are allowed a mattress, two blankets, and a rug. Though my second visit to this prison was before ten o’clock in the morning, the tap-room was filled with men and women drinking.

The Keeper’s salary is only *joL but his payments are as follows:

• > I. s. d»

To a Clerk per week, 105. — 26 0 0

To the Inner-turnkey per week, 125. 31 4 Q To the Outer-turnkey 85. per week, 20 Id 0

To two women for fetching water and

cleaning buckets, 4s. per week - 10 8 0

For the water, which is fetched from a

I

well at a distance, per annum, — O 4 0

e£.88 12 O

Thus is the Tap made a source of finance to the Prison, which I found filthy and nauseous in the extreme. Large quantities of ashes, to the amount of several loads, were in various parts of the Gaol, and

rendered

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 2, 3f,

rendered almost intolerable, from fish in a putrid state having been thrown amongst them. The cells were so very offensive, that I wonder any human being could exist in them; the uncovered half-tubs, which served the purpose of necessaries, were three parts full; and, upon my asking the women if they were not ashamed to let them be in such a state, one of them (turning her head over her shoulder towards me) replied, “ They are not full yet.” ’T is true, ” said f, “ they will hold a little more.”

<c We generally empty them once a fortnight, ” said she. It was two years since the Gaol had been white-washed; and in the debtors’ room there was a paper stuck up, “ Garnish Eighteen Pence, ” in defiance of the Prohibition.

“ Fees and Regulations to be exacted and ob-

served in the Tolbooth at Glasgow; as appointed

by Act of the Magistrates and Town Council of

Glasgow, dated the 31st of August, l/Gp.

Sterling.

I. s. V.

1. Every burgess incarcerated, shall, during

his confinement, pay for jaylor-fee, for each night, at the rate of - 0 0 2

And eve\*y person, not a burgess, shall pay for jaylor-fee, during his or her confinement, each night, at the rate of - 0 0 4

2. Every person imprisoned by virtue of an

act of warning, shall pay to the jay lor, exclusive of the dues in 1st article - 0 1 4f

And

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEI5TOR5

Sterling.

I. s. d.

And every person incarcerated by virtue of a written warrant, from a magistrate, a justice of peace, or a sheriff, shall pay - 0 1 S

3. Every person incarcerated by virtue of a

caption, pr a justiciary, or admiral warrant, .shall, exclusive of the dues in 1st article, if a burgess, pay - - 0 2 9l

If an unfreenian, - 0 5 6§.

4. The jay lor, on signing an attestation of a

commitment, shall receive - 0 10

And on the delivery up of diligence to persons neglecting to require the same, within eight days.after the prisoner’s liberation, be shall receive - 0 1 0

Rules to be observed by the Jay lor and bis servants.

1. The ja3'lor shall not, by himself or any of his servants, direetty or indirectly, demand or receive from any prisoner, or from any person in his or her name, at entry, or during his or her confinement, any sums of money under the name of entry-money, garnishing, or any other denomination, separate from, and over and above the fees stipulated as above. Further, the jay lor shall not suffer any of the prisoners to make demands of 'money or drink

from persons newly incarcerated^ on, any pretence whatsoever.

2. The jaylor shall, all the year, open each day the prison at nine, and shut it at three in the afternoon; then open at five, and shut it at nine for the night:only on Sundays, the prison shall be shut during public worship, any thing in this rule to the contrary. And the ja}dor is always to keep the whole keys of the prison in his own

* custody

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 2, 37

custody while it is shut up, and not entrust them with any of his servants.

3. The jaylor, every morning and evening, at the opening of, and before shutting up the prison, shall personally visit every room and place therein, carefully inspect the windows, chimnies, and walls thereof, in order to prevent and discover all attempts to cut the iron stan-chers, or to break through the stone walls, joists, and floors of the prison; and he shall take particular care that no instruments be conveyed to, or be in the possession of, any of the prisoners, whereby they may effectuate their escape, or hurt one another:And in ease the jaylor shall, through indisposition, be prevented from the execution of his duty, lie shall take care to employ some faithful person in his absence.

4. The jaylor and his servants are expressly prohibited, on any account, to sell, or suffer to be brought in, to any of the prisoners, spirits or strong liquor, whereby they may be in danger of being intoxicated; and to use their utmost endeavours to promote sobriety amongst those under their charge.

5. The jaylor shall keep the prisoners for debt in the best rooms, and separate from criminals and disorderly persons; and prevent, as much as possible, their associating and conversing together; and the friends and servants of debtors shall be allowed, at all convenient times, to bring in vivers for their own support.

6. In order to make the prison more healthy and clean, the jaylor shall, at his own expence, cause pare and clean the stairs, sweep the rooms, and remove and cany away all filth and nastiness, at leasi three times in the week.

* Provisions, victuals.

7. The

238 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

7. The jaylor, in the event of his exacting, by himself, or his servants, more fees than stipulated as above, or in the event of transgressing any of the Rules or Instructions foresaid, shall be dismissed from his office, or otherwise punished as the magistrates, for the time being, and council, shall judge proper.

It is recommended to the magistrates, frequently to examine and enquire into the fidelity of the jaylor and his servants; and the Council hereby ordains these dues and regulations to be printed and published, that none may pretend ignorance; and ordains John Rowan, jaylor, and his successors in office, to affix a copy hereof in the most public part of the Tolbooth, under the penalty of ten pounds Scots.”

There are no court-yards to the Gaols in Scotland where debtors are confined. The original cause of this seems to have been the following very coolly weighed, but severe maxim, in the Scotch law: <c After a debtor is imprisoned, he ought not to he cc indulged with the benefit of the air, not even “ under a guard; for creditors have an interest that “ their debtors be kept under close confinement, ec that, by the squalor carcei'is they may be brought tc to pay their debt.” Act Sess. 14 June, 1671. See the Principles of the Law of Scotland. 5*h edit, p. 461.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

GLOUCESTER County Gaol.

Gaoler, Thomas Cunningham. Salary 300/. for Gaol, Bridewell, and Penitentiary prisons.

Fees. See Table. The Under-sheriffidemands 6s. Sd. for his liberate: which is paid by the Committee of Prison Charity, in all cases of distress.

Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Edward Jones.

Salary, 50I.

Duty; prayers every Wednesday and Friday morning, and a sermon every Sunday, Christmas-day, and Good-Friday. And likewise to keep a journal, in which he shall enter the times of his attendance, and such observations as may occur to him in the general execution of his duty; and to consider it as his duty, frequently to see all the prisoners, without the Governor or other officer being present; to enquire into their situation, to assist them with his spiritual advice, and to administer the sacrament at such times, and to such persons, as he shall think proper. It is likewise expected of the Chaplain, that he do attend the Visiting Justices, on notice of their visiting the prison, and lay his journal before them.

Surgeon *

240 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Su rgeon, Mr. Wilton; Salary, 4//. To find medicines for all classes of prisoners; to visit the patients in the sich-ward once every day, and twice a week to see every prisoner. At every visit, to enter his observations and directions in a journal to be kept for that purpose; likewise to attend immediately, on notice from the Governor of any sickness that may require examination of a prisoner, before passing into the prison. He must report to the Justices, at each quarter sessions, the state of the health of the prisoners under his care; and attend the Justices (on notice given) when visiting the prison. The Surgeon to write in his journal what extra bedding, cloathing, food, or liquors, are necessary for the use of the prisoners; and such orders shall be considered as authority to the Governor to procure the same, and shall be a necessary voucher for such articles in his account.

Number of Debtors, (1802’ Nov' 20th

I 180G, Sept. 3d, - - 23

Allowance. One pound and a half of good household bread per day, and one penny in money, to those debtors who are certificated as deserving objects.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 241

REMARKS.

The situation of this prison is judiciously chosen, a little wav out of the town:the boundary-wall encloses nearly three acres of ground; and the buildings consist of three prisons, for three separate and distinct purposes. The Turnkey’s Lodge, in front, has on the ground door a guard-room, porter s-room, pantry, and bakehouse, a fumigating-room, and warm and cold baths. Up -stairs, two rooms for flour and wheat, and four reception-cells, 7 feet 6 inches by 6 feet. Two rooms for prisoners’ clothes; one for irons, locks, bolts, See.; and the porter’s sleeping-room. On the flat roof above is the place of execution. A small court-yard leads to the Gaoler’s house, in which is the magistrates’ committee-room. The prisons are surrounded by eleven separate courts, of an irregular polygon shape; and between each is a small space of garden-ground, to prevent conversation between the different classes:They have open wood palisades, by which a thorough air is admitted, and the ground being an inclined plane is constantly dry. The distance, of about fifteen feet from the boundary wall, affords a convenient garden for the growth of vegetables.

The Debtors have a spacious airy couit, 70 yards in length, and lp wide, with a colonnade at each

242 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

end, Id yards hv 3- ', and two smaller courts. A day-room, 15 yards by 12, with two fire-places, fitted up with every accommodation for frugal cookery; and two large commodious work-rooms, wherein to carry on any trade for their sole benefit, if they can procure employment from without. If not, they are supplied with work, on application to the manufacturer, and paid two third parts of the estimated value of their daily earnings; and the risque of sale of the articles so manufactured remains with the county.

The prisoners for debt are in two divisions, or

classes'one under the Magistrates' protection, to

which all are admitted on their first commitment;

vet in which none are suffered to remain, but on •/

conforming to rules intended for the preservation of their health and morals, and for promoting that decency and good order which must tend to their common benefit.

The second division is (as it is termed) the Sheriff's ward. With prisoners in this class the magistrates no otherwise interfere, than to protect them against the ordinary means of extortion. The debtors in it are liable to all such claims and consequences, as the gaoler may, by law or usage, have authority to impose.

Each debtor desiring to live under the magistrates’ protection, has a separate bed-room, fire-proof,

fitted

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 243

fitted up with an iron bedstead, a hair mattress, blankets, quilt, and sheets, at the County cost; those confined in the Sheriff’s ward have the like accommodation, paying the regulated room-rent. jSueh as are far removed from, or totally destitute of friends, and without the power to procure their sixpences; such as are not able to work, or, being able, cannot procure employment sufficient to find themselves in necessary sustenance; such, and such only, are relieved from the public stock, on producing a certificate from the minister, and some other respectable inhabitants of the place of residence of any such debtor, that he is so destitute of friends, and a deserving object of the public bounty. An unlimited construction of the clause of the Lords* Act, which allows debtors, at their will and pleasure, to send for, or to have brought to them, any ale, -beer, &c. is the source of all that riot and disorder which happens in their prisons, and is probably a principal cause of their distress. By the Gloucester Bye Laics, the power to send for victuals and small beer is not only unrestrained, but a messenger is paid by the public to procure it for them, at all hours in the day-time. But, in respect to strong liquor, no prisoner is allowed to'have and receive, for his own use, more than a pint of wine, or a quart of strong, beer in any one day.

a 2

Taule

244

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

‘'Table of Fees to be paid by the Debtors; revised and regulated as directed by the Act of 32d George II. and 25th George III.

«£. s. d.

“For entering the action whereon each prisoner is brought into custody, either on

O j '

process, capias, latitat, or execution, - 1 0 0

“For entering and discharging every second or other action, upon process, capias, latitat, or execution, - 0 13 4

“ For the certificate of the want of a declaration, in order to sue out ’a writ of supersedeas, - 0 6 S

N.B. The above demandable of the prisoner.

“ For receiving and entering every declaration against a prisoner in custody, - 0 2 0

“ For each copy of a warrant against a

prisoner, - - -034

N.B. To be paid by persons making the declaration, or demanding the warrant.

“ Attending upon every prisoner, to give bail, special bail, habeas, or other necessary attendance, out of the gaol, as directed by statute, per mile, - 0 1 q

“ That

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

sm r>

“That all the above fees (except for the keepers attendance out of gaol), when paid by any prisoner to the keeper, shall be accounted for by him to the public fund, in aid of the debtor’s maintenance.

“ Every debtor, who, during his confinement, has behaved orderly in prison, and submitted to the regulations with decent respect and attention, op his discharge is entitled to a certificate of such good behaviour from the Chaplain and a Visiting Justice, or Chaplain and Governor:and this certificate is a complete acquittal from all and every fee payable to the keeper.”

“ Table of charges for lodging, bedding, &e.

T. s. tl.

ec Ever}' person confined in the Sheriff's ward, finding his own bedding, per week, - - 0 1 0

“ Ditto, with bedding allowed by the

county, - 0 2 6

[The certificate of good behaviour is a discharge from all demands on account of the two preceding articles.]

v. “ Every prisoner occupying a room in

the keeper’s house shall pay^cr week, 0 2 G

“ Furnished, - 0 7 G.”

By

i-Mf> ACCOUNT of prisons for DEBTORS

By the police of this prison respecting debtors, it is considered as the best expedient to guide them to good; by the prospect of benefits; and no otherwise to punish their irregularities, than by removing them from a participation of those benefits. Had the exemption from fees been unconditionally given, they would soon have claimed it as their right, and forgotten it as a benefaction; and this negative influence on their conduct would have been lost.

For male debtors there are 34 single sleeping-cells, 20 on the first story, and 14 on the second: and a large room, with five beds, should those be insufficient; besides three rooms in the keeper’s house, for which they pay as per Table.

For Common Side debtors there are two rooms on the first story, and one on the second, each containing five beds:and a large'room, with five beds for female debtors, on the first story.

The sleeping-cells are 8 feet by 6, with arched roofs, and well ventilated. There is a dispensary, two hospital rooms, and a large convalescent ward adjoining, and the roof has leads for these prisoners to take tha air upon, There is a court where coals are deposited, and a large wheel for forcing water into four reservoirs, from which every part of the prison is well supplied. The goods manufactured here are linen and woollen cloth, bottle-stands, boots, shoes, clippers, weaving, &c.

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

24 ’

The chapel is a neat building: Each class enters by a separate door to the place assigned, which is out of the view of others. Their names are called over before divine service begins, and none are permitted to absent themselves, except on some special occasion or sickness. I was much pleased with the appropriate discourse of the worthy chaplain to the several classes as he addressed them. Besides the service, noted in its place, prayers are read the four other days in the week by the Gaoler; who then distributes the daily allowance, of bread and money, to every prisoner who appears clean, and has behaved decently at chapel.

These prisons exhibit the highest pitch of perfection in Polity I ever witnessed, and the greatest care and discernment in the choice of officers: every one seems peculiarly adapted for the situation he fills. Silence, obedience, and decorum reign in overy department, and satisfaction is demonstrated in the countenance of every prisoner. The most humane treatment in the articles of food, lodging, &c. joins with strict regulations to prevent vain and riotous amusement. Confinement is neither destructive tt> health nor morals; but it is sufficiently irksome to the idle and profligate. The Rules and Orders are worthy the excellent Magistrate* who framed them; and his zeal for the public godtl is fully equalled by his powers of judgment in execution.

* Sir George O, Paul, Bart.

I

248 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

GLOUCESTER, City and County Gaol.

Gaoler, William Dunn. Salary, 31l. 10s.

Fees. See Table. Chaplain, None,

Surgeon, Mr. H ilton.

Salary, none , makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, \ 1802’ ^0V' 20th’ “ 3

I 1806, Sept. 3d, - 5

Allowance. The city pays to the prison three shillings per week for debtors in common, which is divided amongst them, be the number great or small: if only one, he has the whole. When a debtor is certificated as a pauper, the magistrates allow him six pence a day in bread.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, which is likewise the City Bridewell, was first occupied 24th November, 1^84, and is situate in South-gate Street. The Keeper^1 apartments front the street, and his kitchen commands the court, which is of an oval shape, 12 yards by 8f, with sewers and two pumps in it, and is the only one for all descriptions of prisoners. The straw room, or free ward, for poor debtors, is over the felons’ day-room:it is about twelve feet square, with a fire-place and glazed window. Master’s Side debtors have a day-room upstairs, and one bed-room,

for

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 24t)

for which they pay as per Table. On the 13th of December, prisoners have ten shillings worth °1 bread from an estate in Hemstead, near this city* It is sent in two-penny loaves. No memorial ol d in the Gaol.

A TABLE of the Chamber Rent and Fees.

Chamber Rents.

No. 2. Debtors’ Rooms, 2s. per wjeek each.

No. 3. Straw Debtors’ Rooms, nothing.

Fees.

/. s. cl.

For every Debtor discharged by liberate

from the Sheriff - - 0 13 4

Every Pi •isoner discharged by liberate

from a Justice of the Peace - 0 13 4

Every certificate of Debtor, signed by

the Gaoler, - - o 6 S

Every copy of warrant - - 0 3 4

tc General Quarter Sessions holden at the Tolsey for the City of Gloucester, 15th January, 1730.

Signed, James Sadler, Mayor, Abraham Saunders,

G. Greenaway.

Allowed and confirmed this 28th day of March, ] 730, by us, J. Heatii. J. Wilson.”

550 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS- FOR DEBTORS

HADDINGTON; Scotland.

County Gaof.

Gaoler, Peter Coates. Salary, 67.

Fees; Debtors, a Burgess, 2d. a night, not a Burgess, 4d.

Chaplain, or Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Sept. 12th, - 0

Criminal, — - - — 1

Allowance. To Criminals, 6d. per day. Debtors are alimented, at the discretion of the magistrates, fifteen days after commitment.

REMARKS.

This prison is over the Assembly-hall. Here are two rooms for Criminals, about three yards square, lighted by one small iron-grated window each: Straw on the floor, worn to dust. Over these is one for Debtors, ip feet by 13. Dirty, and never whitewashed. No court. No water. Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor Clauses against Spirituous Liquors hung up. Their tubs emptied once a fortnight. rIlie Keeper is a Town’s Officer or Bailiff and lives distant. In most Prisons of Scotland the Gaolers have no apartments there.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALE>5. 2j 1

HALIFAX; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, Joseph Scott. Salary, none. He pavs a rent to the Duke of Leeds of 24/. a year, and also window-tax for the Gaul.

Fees. See Table.

Garnish, 3s. (id.

Chaplain, none. Surgeon, none.

plSoO, March 3 l‘St, - 13

Kumber of Debtors, J 1802, Feb. 4th, - 17

11803, Oct. 20th, - 7

Allowance. Forty shillings worth of bread per .annum, be the number of debtors great or small; one twelfth part of which is sent in every month. See Remarks. If a Debtor is very poor, and cannot support himself, the parish to which he belongs orders him a weekly allowance.

REMARKS.

Th is Gaol, for the manor of Wakefield, is the property of the Duke of Leeds. For Master’s Side debtors there are four rooms in the Keeper’s public house, for which they pay as per Table. It is the sign of the Leeds' Arms, and under it is inscribed, “ Neat Wines. The Jail HouseT

Through this you pass to a Court sixteen yards by eight; at the further end of which is a good-gized room on the ground-floor for Common Side

debtors,

252

ACCOUNT OE PRISON'S IOR DEI1TOKA

debtors, called the Lon: Gaol; and from it there is an aperture to the street, about a foot square, to receive provisions. Over this room is another, 2S feel hv 19, and S feet high (the Low Gaol Chamber), with an iron-grated glazed window and fire-place; and six sleeping-rooms, for which is paid as per Table. The whole prison out of repair; Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor Clauses against Spirituous Liquors hung up. No employment furnished. Here is distributed to the prisoners 3, v. 4(1. in bread the first Saturday in every month. Jonathan Turner of Halifax, butcher, left by will forty shillings yearly to the poor prisoners in Halifax Jail, to be given them in bread. This annuity is charged on some houses in Cheapside, \ Halifax. (S eeJVatson's History of Halifax.) They are in the possession of Miss Waterhouse, who constant! \r pays the legacy.

Bradford Sessions, ] ~th Juli/, lSoo. Orders and Fees allowed by the Justices of the Peace assembled at the above Sessions, held at Bradford, the 17th of July, 1800, to be paid, observed, and kept by the Gaoler and Prisoners of the Gaol of Halifax, kept in and for the manor of Wakefield, in the said Riding, and by all other persons whatsoever that are or shall be thereunto committed, until just cause be shewn for altering the same.

Every

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

Every Commitment Fee, - -

Every Gentleman shall pay lor lijs commons at table per day, ..

F^ry Yeoman, Tradesman, or Artificer, - j <r,

Every person shall pay for his bed in the rooms marked No. 3. and 4. per night, - o c

If two persons sleep together in No. 3. and }.

each of them shall pay per night, - o p

Every person sleeping in the rooms rnaiked I.

and 2. shall pay for his bed per night, - o 4

If two or more sleep together in No. l. and 2. each of them shall pay per night, - - 0 3

Every person sleeping alone in the lore gaol .shall pay for his bed per night, - -0 1-

If two or more sleep together in one bed in the lore gaol, each of them shall pay for his bed per night, - 0

Persons bringing their own heels must pay half the sum they would otherwise have paid if they used the Gaoler’s beds.

Persons coming to visit the prisoners, and sleeping-in the Gaol, to pay for their beds each per night, U u One Fee only shall be taken by the Gaoler for any prisoner’s discharge, although there may he more than one action against him or her, which Fee shall be, - 17 4

And to the Turnkey, - - 1 ()

For allowing every supersedeas in every action, 6 8

For allowing every writ of Habeas Corpus, besides conduct-money, to be paid and allowed according to the distance from the said Gaol to the place where the body is to be removed,

6 8

No

ACCOUNT OK Pit IS ft NS FOR DEBTORS

No prisoners, of whatever description, si ml 1 be allowed to stop in the kitchen, without the consent of the Gaoler. All prisoners in the lore' gaol must clean their own apartments, and make their own beds. Every person shall have liberty to provide for him or herself whatever necessaries he or she may want, from any person or place whatsoever. Every person shall be furnished with necessaries by the Gaoler, paying a reasonable price for the same.

And that every person and persons, of whatever degree, estate, or condition, being or remaining a prisoner or prisoners within the said Gaol of Halifax aforesaid, who shall use any unlaw ful swearing, cursing, or railing, or any other indecent behaviour, that every person or persons so offending shall forfeit for every such offence ttvelve pence, to he paid to the Gaoler, or his deputy, on demand; and on default of payment to be levied by way of distress on the goods of the party so offending, or to stand in charge upon such prisoner, to be paid to the said Gaoler, before be, she, or they, he discharged out of custody:the said forfeitures so collected to be bestow'ed and distributed amongst the most needful in the low gaol, at the discretion of the said Gaoler.

And that every person who shall be suspected to break the Gaol, and make ftscape, and all others in the Gaol with such prisoner, who shall be suspected to be aiding and assisting therein, shall be by the Gaoler ironed *P to secure them from making their escapes.

And that if the prisoners in the low gaol shall at any time mutiny against or upon the Gaoler, or his deputies

* Whoever reads these rules and orders will be astonished to find, that in the year xSoo, such power wras given to a Gaoler over the person of a Del tor. See ELY GAOL, p. 194.

or

IN' ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 255

or servants, going amongst them to regulate abuses, or any distio'l him or them, he or they shall for every such offence be kept in close confinement, at the discretion of the said Gaoler.

By the Court,

John Foljambe, Deputy Clerk of the Peace.

In this town, formerly, the barons (as in many other places), and after them various proprietors, had power of life and death. The method of execution was decollation, by an axe in an engine, similar to the Guillotine in France. Abraham Wilkinson, John Wilkinson, and Anthony Mitchell, were the last who suffered by it, in May 1G50. I saw the axe; it is preserved in the Gaol.

When any felon was here found guilty, the bailiff immediately returned him back to prison, for the space of one week, or thereabouts; and on every market-dav, there being three in a week, the felon was set in the public stocks; and either upon his back, if the thing stolen was portable, or if not, then before his face, the goods were so placed, that they might be noticed by all passengers. The manner of execution:The prisoner being brought to the scaffold by the bailiff, the axe being drawn up by a pulley, and fastened with a pin to the side of the scaffold, if it was a horse, an ox, or cow, <kc. that was taken with the prisoner, it was thither brought along with him to the place of execution, and fastened by a cord to the pin that stayed the block; so that, when the time of execution came (which was known by the jurors, holding iip one of their hands), the bailiff, or his servant, whipping the beast, the pin was plucked out, and execution done. But if there was no beast in the felon’s case, then jhe bailiff, or his servant, cut the rope.

See Halifax, and its Gibb it-Law

256

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

HAVERFORDWEST; Pembrokeshire. County Gaol.

Gaoler, Samuel Howell. Salary 30/.

Fees, 13.?. 4d. No Table.

Garnish, Is.

Chaplain, Rev. William Thomas.

Duty, Prayers, Wednesday and Friday. Salary, 201.

Surgeon, Mr. Thomas.

Salary, 15l. for Criminals only.

f 1800, May 4th, - 3

Number of Debtors, (^ Sept- 2yth) _ ,

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, built within the walls of the old Castle, has a spacious and airy court, about 36 yards square, where men and women, debtors and felons, associate together during the dav- time. Here are five cells

O O *

and a kitchen for felons; and a Bridewell-room for ?ncn. Over these are live rooms for debtors, who are allowed straw on wooden bedsteads; a room called the Womens Bridewell, and a store-room. The felons’ sleeping-cells (12 feet by 6 feet p inches)

open

IN ENGLAND; SCOTLAND, AND WALKS. 257

open into a passage four feet wide, and being three steps under ground, and damp, makes it absolutely necessary to have bedsteads; but at my visit, 1803, there was nothing but straw on the brick-floors; and the Gaoler told me that eight or ten prisoners had been crowded every night, in each cell, a month together. ' Here is a Chapel: no Infirmary, 01 Bath. A tine well of water in the centre of the court-yard. Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, hung up.

Mrs. Martha Bowen declared in her will, that 100/. had been deposited in her hands by an unknown person, about the year 1751, for the benefit of insolvent debtors and the poor; which said sum of 100/. was invested in New South-Sea Annuities, in trust, to the Rectors of St. Mary's, Haverfordwest. I found the Rector, Mr. Ayteway, quite superannuated, and incapable of giving me any account of its distribution. The Gaoler told me no debtor had received the bread from the ldth of August, 1802, to January 1803, when two sixpenny loaves were sent; and he afterwards informed me by letter, that he had received the bread in December 1804. Formerly a sixpenny loaf was given weekly to each poor debtor, and the remainder in twopenny loaves to the poor in the town. The county allows a common fire from Michaelmas to Lady-day; but no employment is furnished. In

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

25S

the great dearth, 1800 and 1801, the sufferings of the poor debtors induced Lord Cawdor to order the surplus of the soup distributed on that occasion to be sent to the Gaol; which proved a great relief.

HAVERFORDWEST, Town and County Gaol

Gaoler, Patrick Banner (a Shoe-maker).

Salary, 21. lOv.

Pri soners, 1803, Sept. 2pth, none.

, Allowance, 2d. yer da)".

REMARKS.

This miserable Gaol, which is likewise the Bridewell, has one large room below for felons; and two above, one of which is for debtors; and the other, about 13 feet square, is the Bridewell. These last are used, however, as the Keeper and prisoners make choice. Straw is allowed, on wooden bedsteads. No court-yard, nor water.

IV ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 25f>

HEREFORD, City Gaol.

Gaoler, John Thomas. Salary, 1 jl.

Fees, 6s. ScL No table.

Garnish, 2$. 6:1.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. When wanted, sent by the Mayor.

Number of Debtors, (1Sn'> Nov’ "’‘I' ’

I 1803, Aug. 20th, - 0

Allowance. Formerly none, now four pence a day in bread.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is the Rye-street Gate, and one room in it is called the Bridewell. It has a small court with a sewer in it, and the whipping-post. For Common Side debtors here is a free ward, to which the Corporation allow straw:they have a little court about 15 feet square, with a sewer: and it is well supplied with water.

Master’s Side debtors have two rooms in the Keeper s house, for which they pay 2.s\ 67/. per week for a single bed; or, if twro sleep together, 1a-. 6d. each. Debtors are committed here by process issuing out of the Mayor’s Court. Neither the Act nor Clauses hung up. The whole prison very dirty.

One shilling is given to each prisoner by the Chamberlain at every quarter session.

260

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

HEREFORD, County Gaol.

Gaoler; John Preece.

Salary; 182/. for Gaol and House of Correction; out of which he provides a Turnkey.

Fees; Debtors, see Table; besides which the

Under-sheriff demands 4-s* 8d. for his liberate I

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Underwood.

Duty. Prayers and Sermon every Sunday, Christmas-day, and Good Friday; and prayers every Wednesday and Friday.

Salary, 50l. Twenty of which is a legacy from William Bridges, Esq. of Tiberton, in this County.

Surgeon, Mr. Cam.

Salary, 42l. for Debtors and Felons.

Number of Debtor?,

1800, March 30th, - 10 1803, Aug. 28th, - 6 1802, Nov. 10th, - S lSotf, Nov. 28th, - 8

Allowance. One pound of bread per day each, and sometimes an allowance from the Charity Box. If debtors procure work for themselves, they have the whole of their earnings; but if the County furnishes employ, see Remarks.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 2Cl

REMARKS.

This Prison is built upon the site of the old Priory. The Turnkey’s lodge in front has, on each side, two reception-cells for the confinement of prisoners, till examined by the Surgeon, previous to their being admitted into the interior of the gaol; and two small court-yards for their use: Also a warm and cold bath, and an oven to fumigate and purify the prisoners’ clothes. The flat-roof above is the place of execution. The court is flagged, and in it is the engine-house, and a well, by which the whole prison is supplied with excellent water. A house for the manufacturer, or task-master, and a very neat shop for the articles manufactured in the prison, viz. shoes, slippers, gaiters, stockings, gloves, garters, flaxen yarn, and nets of all sorts; the sale of (which is promoted by advertisement, at the county expence. At the upper end of this court is the gaoler’s house, on the ground-floor of which is the

O 7 O

magistrates’committee-room:A passage leads to the great-hall, or inspection-room, which is about IS yards diameter, and nearly circular, with windows opening into every court, and has a complete command of the whole prison.

The Rules and Orders, which are painted on a board, and hung up in every lobby, among other things recite, —“ Any person wishing to work, may

“ have

262

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

f: have raw materials of the Keeper, who will dispose of the work on the best terms he can; and,

“ after deducting the prime cost of the raw materials,

“ pay the remainder to the prisoner who has performed the work; except one fourth thereof, which (i is to be reserved for the county. Any person to “ whom work is refused, or whose money is kept* “ back, or has suffered any imposition from the cc Keeper, or his servants, is particularly enjoined tf to make complaint thereof to the Magistrate, at his next visitation

+Men and women debtors have each a separate and spacious court-yard, but no day-room. The men have twenty sleeping-rooms, ten below and ten above, twelve feet by nine each, furnished with beds and bedding by the Gaoler; for which they pay, as by the following Table. The women have eight rooms of equal size, four below and four above, all free wards; and if a debtor is too poor to provide his own bed, the County humanely furnishes him an iron-bedstead with sacking bottom, a straw-bed, two blankets, and a coverlet, gratis. There is a fire-place is every room, but no fuel allowed.

In several of the courts vegetables are grown for the use of the prisoners, in addition to the allowance above stated.

* A letter from the Keeper just received, dated 14th Feb. 180S, has given me equal surprize and concern, by informing me that the working system is in a great measure discontinued.

Here

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

y6'3

Here are four excellent infirmary-rooms, and the sick are as well attended to as in an hospital. The humane Surgeon having a discretional power to order all things necessary, every page of the prison-books bears witness to his great attention.

The Chapel is a very neat building, and the prisoners are seated in their different classes; all are required to attend divine service, which is most devoutly and impressively performed by the excellent and exemplary Chaplain; by whose serious discourses I was much edified at mv several visits, and with pleasure remarked the number of communicants when the sacrament was administered.

William Bridges, Esq. bequeathed eight pounds a year to poor prisoners:and on St. Thomas’s day, one shilling is given to each debtor, and one shilling to each felon, by a legacy of Sir Thomas I flute.

No table of bequests kept in the Prison. The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are painted on aboard, and conspicuously fixed up.

Table of Fees.

County of Hereford. At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace, held at the City of Hereford, in and for the county, on the 15th of January, 17PP, after reciting the preamble of the Act, it is ordered,

“ that

264

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

that the several sum and sums of money herein-<e after particularly mentioned, and no more, shall i: from henceforth be taken, in manner herein-after tc expressed; that is to say,

I. s. d.

For the entering of every action or process

whereon a prisoner shall or may be charged, 0 3 6

To the Turnkey, or Under Turnkey, on each

action, - -010

For the entering of a discharge, and for the discharge of every prisoner, - - 0 IS 4

To the Turnkey, on the discharge of every

prisoner, - -010

For the receiving and entering every declaration delivered against the prisoner in custody, 0 2 0

To the Turnkey, upon every declaration, - 0 0 6

For a certificate for want of a declaration, in order to take out a writ of Supersedeas, -03 6

For copy of warrant, or commitment against each prisoner, - - 0 2 6

Lodgings.

Every prisoner who lies in the Keeper’s lodgings, in the Sheriff’s Ward, on a single bed,

; per week, - - 0 2 6

For two in a single pair of sheets, per week each, 0 16

Ja. Phillips. H. Morgan. IV, Parry.

March 21st, 1799, approved by us. Justices of Assize and Gaol delivery for the said county,

G. Rooke.

S. Lawrence.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALE3.

HERTFORD.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, Charlotte IVilson. Salary, 18o/. and for the Bridewell 24/.

Fees, 15$. 4d.; besides which the Under-sheriff demands 6s. 8d. for his liberate I Garnish, “ None to be taken, ” painted on a board.

Chaplain, Rev. James Moore.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Sunday. Salary, 40l.

Surgeon, Mr. Bradley. Salary, 20l.

Number of Debtors,

1800, March 2fith, - 8 1803, June 2Gth, - 11

1801, Aug. 14th, - 7 1804, Sept. 9th, 12

Allowance. None whatever.

. REMARKS.

This Gaol is situated just out of the town, and surrounded by a wall 15 feet high; which, being at a considerable distance from the buildings, admits a free circulation of air; and the Keeper has within it a convenient garden. For men and women debtors there is only one court, 20 yards by 12. Their infirmary-room, which is spacious and lofty, is on the ground floor; but they have no day-room. For

Common

266

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS iOR DEBTORS

Common Side Debtors there are ten sleeping-rooms, 16 feet 8 inches by 11 feet 7, which arej'ree wards: But the county allows neither bedding nor straw; so that, if a debtor cannot provide himself with a bed, he must sleep on the bare boards. The lobby which leads to these rooips is onl y four feet wide, and the pillars, being square, and of brick, make them both dark and close. The door-ways are only twenty-two inches udde, so that no crib-bedsteads can be introduced. There are two other rooms, 12 feet by 10, which are furnished for those who can pay 7s. a week each, and two sleep together. No tiring allowed. No employment is furnished. The County attempted to establish a manufactory; but, the expence exceeding the earnings of the prisoners, it was soon discontinued. The Chapel is very close: it has no cupola; and the debtors, who are very negligent in their attendance on divine service, frequently interrupt it: only three out of eleven were present at my visit in 1803. -There is a want of cleanliness and regularity in the government of this Gaol. The Clauses against Spirituous Liquors are hung up, but not the Act for Preservation of Health.

* Thai employment might be made productive, under proper regulations, see Dorchester, p. 163, Gloucester, p. 239, and various other prisons j as has already been and will be shewn, in the course of this work.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, ANI) WALES. 2(7;

HORSHAM; Sussex.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, Samuel Smart. Salary, 1 20/.

Fees. Abolished.

Garnish; prohibited, but sometimes a pot of beer, or a pint of wine, is paid by new-comers. Chaplain, Rev. William Jameson.

l)uty, Prayers every day, and a Sermon once a week.

Salary, 50l.

Surgeon, Mr. Dubbins; for Felons only *.

Salary, 20l.

r 1801, Sept. 3d, - 7

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 4th, - 5

11800, July l£)th, - 28

Allowance. None, except to paupers, who have one pound of bread per day, sent in loaves from the baker, and weighed by the Gaoler.

REMARKS.

The situation of this prison, judiciously chosen, is a little way out of the town:a small garden extends along the front.. In the door of the Keeper’s house there is a poor's box, for obtaining prisoners’ sixpences. Here are two spacious courts (about half an acre each), with gravel walks surrounding a fine

* As medical relief does not extend to poor debtors, the humane Surgeon has hitherto attended them gratuitously.

jrrass-

O

26$

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

gras*-plat: both are well supplied with excellent water, and a wall encloses the whole prison. The debtors’ apartments are over arcades, to which the ascent is by a stone staircase skirted with iron rails. There are two floors, each of which has ten rooms (five on each side a passage five feet wide); besides a day-room (28 feet by 12 feet three inches); and a lodging-room for the turnkey. To each room are

OO *

two doors, one of wood, the other iron-latticed.

Every room has a shutter for the window, with a

pane of knobbed glass in it, a wood bedstead, a

straw in canvas bed, and two blankets. The county

is so considerate as to allow half a bushel of coals

per day to each common room during the six winter

months, two tin kettles, and a wooden scuttle. A

Turnkey, paid by the County, goes twice a day to

purchase provisions and liquors for the debtors; and

it is properly fixed they shall not exceed each one

pint of wine, or one quart of strong beer a-day.

The Justices have sent in scales and weights, which

is a check on the baker; and I have always found

the loaves full weight. There is 110 Infirmary; but

two rooms, with fire-places, are set apart for the

sick. The Act for Preservation of Health is not

hung up. The Gaoler’s house has not a proper view

of the court-yards: a window should be made in his *

kitchen towards the Debtors’ court, and in his parlour to that of the Felons. There should be benches

in

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 2(>9

in the day-rooms to sit upon, and shelves for debtors to deposit their plates and provisions; instead of which, at present, there are only the naked walls.

The Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, and the Rules and Orders, are hung up. The sewers are judiciously placed. The Chapel, which is in the Keeper’s house, has a gallery for the Gaoler and his family. The pulpit is on the same level: the ar ea below is 17 feet by 15, and has benches for flic prisoners; so that debtors and felons sit opposite each other, but almost close together. Any prisoner absent from divine service, without a proper cause, is punished by close confinement, or short allowance. Religious books, at the county-expence, are distributed by the worthy Chaplain: all the prisoners attended when I was there (20th July, 180G), and their behaviour was orderly and attentive. The County, at my former visits, allowed those debtors to work who could procure it, by which many supported themselves comfortably, and assisted their families. I was sorry to be informed that this indulgence was now denied them, and the whole number (twenty-eight) in a state of idleness no work whatever being permitted in the Gaol. It is a maxim in many of our best-governed prisons that every attention be paid to the means of industry. Sir George Paul justly observes, Cf that Debtors and the Unconvicted should doubtless be allowed

to

2/0 ACCOUNT OF TRISONS FOR DEBTORS

to employ the wages of their own industry, to make life more comfortable; but under such restrictions as the good government of the prison renders indispensable. What is it less than a palpable absurdity, to commit a pennyless offender, till he pays a fine, and deny him the exercise of his art and industry, to enable him to redeem his liberty ?”

Every Christmas a man goes about the county to collect donations for the relief of poor Debtor^; and the money thus procured is distributed amongst them, at 2s. each per week, till the whole is expended. The contribution in 1805 amounted to 6fl. 2s.; and in 180f), to 84^. 11*?. lid.; out of which the collector had one fourth for his expences, time, and trouble

* Since writing the above I have been informed that some Debtors had attempted to escape, and that others would not conform to the rules of the Gaol, which caused an order for pro-(hibiting work.

f At my several visits I have always seen one Simon Southward, a debtor here, who was committed the 2ad of February, 1767. He is now allowed by the parish 6s. a week. He styles himself Simon, Earl of Derby, King in Man; is very orderly and inoffensive, but evidently deranged.

IS ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND W U.V.S.

271

HULL; Yorkshire.

Town and County Gaul.

Gaoler, Robert Raines Raines.

Salary, 100l. out of which he provides a Turnkey. Fees, 7s. 6d. Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain. None; but the Rev. Mr. Bromley, Vicar of Holy Trinity, frequently attends.

Surgeon ', Mr. Clarke. Salary, 81, Ss.

Number of Debtors, f 1802; A“S' 25, th) 15

I 1805, May; th, - 11

Allowance. Four pence per day to paupers.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is in a fine situation, just out of the town, and refreshed by the sea-breezes. It would be a good one, if the Turnkey’s Lodge were rebuilt, in front of the prison; and the boundary-wall, at present only 13 feet 6‘ inches, raised five feet higher. Under the same roof with the Turn-key’s apartments are an oven, a bath, and a workroom for debtors. These are injudiciously built in the court, and near the prison-wall, obstructing the keepers view, and seeming to invite escapes:Hence.Jour have been effected in ten years; felons are

therefore

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

272

therefore prohibited the use of it. The ground-floor of the gaol is occupied by the keeper, except one room for women-convicts, which looks to the garden, where they can see and converse with the debtors. Here is one spacious court, 60 yards by 20, for male and female debtors; and a day-room, 22 feet 8 inches by 14 feet 4, with many conveniences for working. Rooms are provided for the manufactory of garters, laces, &c. for those who are of no trades, but willing to work. Master’s-side debtors have three rooms on the second, and three on the third story; and pay Is. 6d. a week for a single bed, or if two sleep together, Is. %cl. each. Common-side debtors have a room on the third story, for which they pay 6d. a week, and find their own bedding. In the depth of winter the magistrates humanely order a bushel and half of coals per week to every room which has a fireplace. In the centre of the building is a square room (too small) with a reading-desk in one corner, used as a Chapel, where all prisoners indiscriminately mix when divine service is performed. Both Act and Clauses are conspicuously hung up. Water at all times accessible. The prison is well ventilated, healthy, and clean. From the quantity of Junk I saw in this busy maritime town, it is evident that constant employ in picking oakum might be furnished for every prisoner, if convenient work-rooms were built, which may easily be done.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 2/$

HUNTINGDON, County Gaol.

Gaoler, itlHiam Aveling. Salary, 10jl. and from the Corporation 4/.

Fees, 10s\; to the Turnkey 2s. Gd. The Under-Sheriff demands 4.?. for his liberate ! Garnish, 2s. 6d. by order of the magistrates. Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Williams.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Wednesday. Salary, 20L Surgeon, Mr. Desborough. Salary, 15l. 15v. Number of Debtors,

1801, Aug. 20th, - 12 1806, Aug. 2, - - 3

1802, Feb. 1st, - - 8 i 1807, Aug. 31st, - 4-

Allowance. Nine pounds of bread icceldy.

REMARKS.

The Gaoler’s house is situate in the High Street, and has no appearance of an appendage to a prison. The Gaol is behind it; through a passage leading immediately to the felons' day-room. This is about 16 feet square, and 10 feet high; has a fire-place, with two iron-grated windows; and here, as there is no chapel, divine service is performed. The attendance of Debtors I understand to be optional!

Men debtors have a court-yard 53 feet by 26, a day-room 30 feet by 14, and 10 feet 5 inches high, with a fire-place. Their sleeping-room above is 26 feet by 14 feet 6, 9 feet 6 inches high, and has four bedsteads for two persons each.

•S

At

2/4 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

At my Summer visits the debtors complained to me of excessive heat, from want of ventilation; the two small iron-grated apertures, made to admit a thorough air, being nearly stopped up on the outside. The County allows straw only, so that debtors in general bring their own beds, and pay nothing, or else the Keeper furnishes a single bed at 2s. 4d. per week; •if two sleep together, at Is. §d. each; and for those who can afford it, there are two other rooms in the house, at 3s. 6d. per week.

Women debtors have a separate court-yard, 33 feet by 19; a day-room 21 feet by id, with a fire-.place; and over it their sleeping-room, nearly of the same size, with four bedsteads for two persons each. They furnish their own bedding. The windows of this room formerly commanded a fine view of the country, which made it both pleasant and healthy; but at my last visit, the wall of the court-yard had been raised so high, as to intercept the scenery.

No firing allowed, but to felons in severe weather. No employment furnished by the County; but such debtors as are of handicraft trades, and can procure it from without, are permitted to work, and receive all they earn. There is a pump in every courtyard, but no bath, or oven, which are much wanted. Both Act fend Clauses are conspicuously hung up. I found the whole of this ill-constructed prison very clean, and well supplied with water.

iN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES,

275

ILCHESTER; Somersetshire,

Gaoler, Edward Scaddtng. Salary, 12^1.

Fees, I4s.4d. See Table. Resides which the Under-Sheriff demands (fa. 8 d. forliis liberate! Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Thomas Rees. Salary, 50l. Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Sunday.

Surgeon, Mr. Poole. Salary, none:but makes his bill.

Number of Debtors, (I80°’ APnl 7tl’> '

L 1801, Dec. 27th, - - 29

Allowance. A six-penny loaf per day each; weight, Dec. 27th, 1 So 1, 2lb. 7 o.z.

REMARKS.

The Turnkey’s lodge fronts the river. On the ground-floor is a warm and cold bath; over which, and the gateway, are his sleeping-rooms. A small garden leads to the Keeper’s house; which, though placed in the centre of the buildings, commands but a very small part of the prison. It has a cupola on the top, which serves either for the chapel, or for alarm, if needful. Great part of the Gaol is surrounded by an outside wall, about If? feet high, which, while it adds to its security, affords the

s 2 keeper

2*6 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

keeper a convenient kitchen garden. Master’s Side debtors have a spacious court-yard, where they pla}r at fives, tennis, &c. a day-room and mess-room 20 feet by 12 each; and 17 lodging-rooms, that accommodate 30 prisoners, for which they pay as per Table.

For Common-side debtors there are two stories over arcades, each containing five sleeping-cells, 8 feet by 7, and 8 feet 6 inches high, fitted up with perforated iron bedsteads; straw, changed once a month, a blanket, and a coverlet. Every cell has a double door, the outer iron-grated, the inner wood, opening into a passage four feet wide; the windows of which (four) look into the court. These cells are lighted and ventilated by a semicircular window, half of which is glazed, the other half open, and an aperture in the wall, 18 inches by Q. In the day-time they are allowed the use of the Master’s-side debtors’ court, and likewise of the mess-room and fire.

The Women debtors’ court is 18 yards by 6, and intended for the use of sick prisoners. It is separated from the Men-felons’ court by a dwarf-wall, and iron palisades, through which they can see and converse with each other. They have arcades, under which they may walk in wet weather; and over these are their two sleeping-rooms, and two infirmary-rooms. The Chapel, to which the access is through the keeper’s house, is on the felons’ side of the

prison.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

277

prison. It is not well partitioned for the different classes of prisoners; and as debtors are not obliged to attend divine service, only eight (out of twenty-nine) were present when I was there. The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are conspicuously hung up; and the prison very clean.

On the debtors’-side is a pump with excellent spring-water; and in the garden the engine-house, from which the reservoirs are filled, and the whole prison supplied with soft-water, through pipes conveyed into the different courts. The sewers are jii' diciously placed, and not offensive. No employment is furnished by the County; and only three debtors, who were of handicraft trades, had any work.

The fifty shillings, formerly paid from a legacy of Mr. Kelson, of Norton, has been long discontinued:I could get no information concerning it. No memorial is hung up.

Somersetshire (to wit.) At the General Quarter-Sessions held the 31st day of March, at Ivelchester, 1761, before Edward Phelips, Esq. See.

A Table of Rates and Fees, settled and allowed to be taken by the Keeper of the Common Gaol, in and for the said County, by virtue of an Act 32d of George II.

For the discharge of every debtor, To the Turnkey,

/. s. d. 0 13 4

O 1 0

For

27§ ACCOUNT OF PRISON’S FOR DEBTORS

For every debtor lodging singly, weekly, including the use of bed and bedding, - 0 1 C

Fut if two debtors lodge together, both weekly, 0 0 9

The Gaoler is not to compel any debtor to lodge single.

If a debtor has a bed and bedding of his own,

then - - - 0 1 0

If he lodges in the outside ward, then weekly

only - -006

If a bed of his own, then nothing for it,

Edward Phelips. John Brickdale.

Thomas Camplin, William Kodbard.

Giles Strang wav,

2pth July, 1701, We do hereby approve and ratify the Table of Fees above written, pursuant to

s

the said statute.

Eardley Wilmot. William Noel.

At my visit in December 1801, I paid the fees of a debtor, whose plaintiff had forgiven him his debt: but there was another demand of 6s. 8d. by the Under-sheriff for his liberate, which I was obliged to pay before the prisoner could be set at liberty !

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 279

IPSWICH, Town and Borough Gaol.

Gaoler, William Brame.

Salary, 50l. also two chaldrons and a half of coals, and eight dozen lbs. of candles.

Fees, 6s. 8d. Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Wm. Howorth. Salary, 30l. Duty, Sunday, Prayers and Sermon.

Surgeon, Mr. Sechamp:makes a bill.

{1801, Oct. 13th, - - 2 1805, Sept. 14th, - - 4 180b, July lpth, - - 3

Allowance. To Debtors who are poor, and not able to support themselves, one pound and a half of bread per day; and from Pember-to)is Charity a two-penny loaf, one shilling’s worth of meat, and a pint of strong-beer on a Sunday, once in three weeks.

REMARKS;

This Gaol, situate in St. Matthew’s Street, is so much improved since my visit in 1801 and 1805, that I can now give some account of it with pleasure. The Gaoler’s house fronts the street, and in it are rooms for Master’s-side debtors, to which he furnishes beds at 2s. per week each. Behind the house is the

* See Bury St. Edmunds, p. 117.

debtor’s ’

2S0 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

debtors’ court-yard, 90 feet by 27, with a gravel walk; and at the end of it is a small court for them to converse with their friends. Common-side debtors have a day-room 1 feet square, with a fireplace; and four rooms upstairs, to which the Corporation furnishes bedsteads and bedding. Women debtors have separate apartments. The infirmary-room is 17 feet by 12, and 7 feet g inches high, with a fire-place and glazed window.

At the West end of the prison is a neat little Chapel, 22 feet by 18, where the prisoners are placed in separate classes, but in sight of each other during divine service. At my visits some were employed in cutting skewers, at 25. a thousand, others spinning and making garters:they have all they earn, and the considerate Magistrates allow fire, soap and towels for the use of the prisoners. Each debtor is permitted to send for a quart of strong beer a day, but not more.

Debtors are confined here by writs of Capias issuing out of the Court of Small Pleas holden for the town and borough every fortnight, on a Monday: No debtor in execution in this gaol had ever reaped the benefit of the Lords’ Act until the 30th December, 1805, when Mr. Pulliam, a very worthy and respectable Solicitor at Woodbridge, obtained the sixpences for them at his own expence, after an application had been made by him to the Court of King’s Bench, for a Mandamus fo have them allowed.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

281

IPSWICH, County Gaol.

Gaoler, Samuel Johnson. Salary, 200l. and coals and candle for his own use.

Fees, and Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Lee. Salary, 50l.

Duty, every Wednesday, Prayers; and on

Sunday, Prayers and Sermon.

Surgeon, Mr. Stehhing.

Salary, Gol. for debtors, felons, &c.

Number of Debtors, f lS01> °ct'13th’ ' ' 11 L 1805, Sept. 14th, - - 20

Allowance. Two pounds of beef per week each; and on Sundays a pint of porter and a two- penny loaf: But if a debtor is very poor, and cannot support himself, he is allowed by the County, in addition to the above, four loaves of 1 f lb. each, and half a pound of cheese per week. I weighed the loaves, and found them full weight, and of the best wheat. Each debtor has a cupboard, numbered as his sleeping-room, with lock and key, to secure his provision.

BE-

£82

ACCOUNT OF TRISONS FOR DEBTORS

REMARKS.

The boundary-wall encloses about an acre and half of ground:the Turnkey’s lodge is in front; his sitting-room is on the ground-floor; and there is also a warm and cold bath, with an oven to piirify infected clothes. Upstairs are two reception-cells, where prisoners are confined till examined by the Surgeon; a room where their clothes are ticketed, hung up, and the county-clothing put on; and the Turnkey’s sleeping-room. The lead roof above is the place for execution of criminals; After passing through the lodge, an avenue, $6 feet by IS, leads to the Keepers house, in the centre of the prison; and from which the several court-yards are completely inspected.

The prison consists of four wings, to which are attached eight spacious and airy courts, of 75 feet by 45; and three smaller ones, about feet square in one of which is the engine-house. Men debtor have the use of two of the larger court-yards, and on the ground-floor, a day-room, 22 feet by \4, with a fire-place, and utensils for frugal cookery, a pantry for provisions, and four work-rooms. One of the small courts, and two cells, 8 feet by 6, and 10 feet high, on the ground-floor, are appropriated to refractory debtors. The first and second story have each eleven sleeping-cells. Women debtors have separate court-yard, and a day-room, 14 feet by 8

feet

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

o c i *

feet fi inches, fitted up as the men’s, with ten sleeping-cells, five on the first store, and five on the second. Each cell has two doors, the outer iron-grated, the inner of wood, (opening to a lobby 4-d feet long and five feet wide; ) and is 8 feet 6 inches by G feet 6, and j.) feet 6 inches high:lighted and ventilated by an iron-grated and glazed sash-window, 3 feet 6 by 2 feet inches, with an aperture near the door 1 inches by 3. These cells are all fitted up with a wood bedstead, flock mattress, two blankets, two sheets, a bolster and coverlet, provided at the county expence. Every debtor has a bed to himself: Coals are allowed both summer and winter, to cook their provisions:and each is permitted to purchase one quart of strong-beer per day, but not more. The county provides no employment; but those who can procure it from without are allowed to work, and have the whole of their earnings. The Chapel is in the centre of the Gaoler’s house, up one pair of stairs; well contrived, and easy of access from the several lobbies. The prisoners are seated in their respective classes, out of sight of each other, but in full view of the Minister and the Keeper. On the second story are four neat infirmary-rooms, lp feet square, with fire-places, sash-windows, and water-closets; and over them is a lead-flat for convalescents to take the air on.

At a meeting of the trustees of Mr. Pembertons Charity, July if, if SO, it was ordered, That the

2S4 ACCOUNT OF PRISON’S FOR DEBTORS

treasurer should provide, as the trustees shall (t fit, for the debtors imprisoned in any of the Jails in

the county of Suffolk, either for their relief therein, “ by a proportion of bread, meat, and beer, as he li shall think necessary, or for the delivering them out “ of prison, until the treasurer shall receive further

orders. Nevertheless, such debtors in Ipswich Jail “ as do not regularly attend divine service (unless presented by sickness, or some reasonable cause to be <c allowed of by the Chaplain), and behave decently “ and reverently, shall not have any benefit or tC allowance from this charity.” Trustees, Geo. Drury, Lott Knight, Ph. B. Brooke, Edw. Hasell.

This excellent prison is well supplied with both hard and soft water: the sewers are judiciously placed, and not offensive: mops, brooms, and pails are provided to keep the prison clean, and towels allowed to the prisoners. When any are sick, the Surgeon has a discretionary power to order wine, and such diet as he deems necessary. It is frequently visited by the Magistrates, who have their committee-room in the keeper’s house. The Act and Clauses are conspicuously hung up, and the Gaol is kept very neat and clean.

The Gentlemen of this county, both here and at Bury, have erected a striking monument of their humane attention to the health of the wretched, and the morals of the prisoner.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

2S5

KENDALL; I Westmorland.

Gaoler, Miles I lay ton.

Salary, 30l.

Fees, 2s. 4 cl. 011 disci large.

Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Briggs.

Salary, 10l.

Duty, Sunday afternoon.

Surgeon. From the Dispensary, when wanted.

Number of Debtors, (1801> Nov' 2'Sfl ’

L 1802, Sept. 25th, - - 3

Allowance. None; but any debtor arrested by process issuing out of the Borough Court is allowed 6d. a day after three court-days:a court is held every three weeks.

REMARKS.

This is the Town Gaol and Bridewell, and judiciously situated on an eminence a little way out of the town. Debtors have a spacious airy court 23 yards by 12, with pump-water, and six sizeable rooms, with sash-windows, and fire-places in four of them. They are airy, clean, and open into a lobby near five feet wide; For the use of these rooms the

debtor

2S6 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

debtor pays nothing, in case he finds his own bed i but if the keeper furnishes one, lie is paid Sd. per week for a chaff-bed, and Is. per week for a featherbed. Two sleep together. Looms are humanely sent from the workhouse, for the use of the prisoners during confinement. Each prisoner is allowed three fourths of his earnings for maintenance, and the other remaining fourth goes to the keeper.

Here is a very neat Chapel, which has two separate doors of entrance, with a folding screen in the middle, so that the women can neither see nor be seen by the men. Every part of this gaol is well supplied with water, and the whole very clean. The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are conspicuously hung up.

Here is no bath, nor oven to purify infected or offensive clothes. No county-clothing is yet allowed. The door of the Felons’ Court-yard opens into that of the Debtors. '

It would be an act of kindness and humanity if a messenger were paid by the public to procure for the prisoners victuals and small beer from the town; of which they sometimes stand greatly in need.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 28/

KING’S BENCH PRISON.

Marshal, William Junes, Esq. the Fees and Emoluments of whose office appear, from the printed Report of the Select Committee of Finance, to be 2300/ *.

Deputy, Mr. Hughes; whose income is stated in the same Report to be210/. This office may be considered as a sinecure; for I am informed that the duties of it are executed by Mr. Brooshoafy as Clerk of the Day Rules, as well as Clerk of the Papers.

Licence, Beer and Wine. Tap let. (see Remarks.)

Allowance. None.

Prisoners, in the House, on an average number of ten years, from - - 500 to 600.

Prisoners in the Rules, on an average, 70 to 100.

Surgeon. None

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Evans; whose salary arises from proceeding^ in suits against prisoners,

* If the account of Fees and Emoluments of the Marshal's Office, which I have had sent to me, is correct, they appear to be upwards of 79001. per annum.

f When sickness attacks prisoners in this place, their misery and sufferings must be very great, from a want of medical assistance; for sickness, accompanied with poverty, finds here neither pity nor relief.

which

2S8

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

which are taken for and paid to him by the several Judges’ clerks at the Judges’ chambers. I am informed the amount is about 100/. per annum.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Sunday; and Sacrament once a month.

N.B. Attendance at Chapel being optional, but few attended when I have been there; and devotion was extremely interrupted by the continual noise occasioned in opening and shutting the Chapel-door during divine service.

The office of Marshal of this Prison was formerly hereditary in a private family, by grant from the Crown; but in the 27th George II. it was suggested as improper for a private family to hold such an office; and that it would be the means of more effectually preventing extortion and impositions on the prisoners, if the appointment were vested in the Crown, subject to removal for neglect of duty, nonresidence, or improper conduct. A Bill therefore passed, to enable his Majesty to purchase the future appointment to the office of Marshal of the King’s Bench Prison, and 10, 500/. was voted for that purpose. By this act the King appoints the officer to hold his office quamdiu se bene gesserit. Constant residence seems required, either within the IFalls or the Rules.

The

T\ ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

* iS.O

' The Marshal is to keep the ]>rison in repair, and pay his servants out of the fees and emoluments. The power of continuance and removal is vested in the Chief Justice, and the other three Judges of the Court of King’s Bench.

By the Act 32 George II. the courts were required to meet, and to settle a table of fees, &c. to be taken of all prisoners for debt; and the prisoners were protected by that Act from the imposition and extortion of Gaolers. The Court of King’s Bench settled the following Table of Fees, to be taken of all prisoners for debt, &c.; and by the said Act they are directed to send at certain times in the year, to see that this Table of Fees, as well as a List of all Bequests, are hung up in some conspicuous part of the prison, and that the said Act is in every other respect complied with; and that eight clays’ public notice should be given of this visitation. Any violation of the clauses in this Act subjects Gaolers and servants to a penalty of 50L The limits and boundaries, or as they are commonly called, <e Rules“ of the Prison, are very extensive, forming a circle of nearly three miles round the walls of the prison. The purchase of these Rules, I am informed, is seven guineas for the first hundred pounds every prisoner is charged with, and five pounds for every hundred afterwards; and such security is given to the Marshal as he approves of; but all taverns,

T ale-

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

290

ale-houses, and places of public amusement, are excluded.

Day Rules

Are allowed, to the number of three ckjfs in every term, unless the prisoner can shew good cause to the Court why a greater number of days should be granted him. Those in the Rules who have given to the Marshal two sufficient securities, pay for the first day-rule 4s, 2d. and 3.?. 10d. for every other day. The expence attending an application for a greater number is about a guinea and a half. Those

O O

who are within the walls, and are too poor to purchase the Rules, and unable, from the general desertion of their friends, to find security, cannot obtain this indulgence of the day-rules without paying a Judge’s tipstaff \0s. 6d. to attend him, and a further sum of 16s. Sd. to induce the tipstaff' to become security to the Marshal, in case of an escape. As the tipstaffs give to the Marshal security to the amount of 500/. only, those who are charged with demands or debts for more than that sum can have no indulgence of this kind.

Of the Prison itself.

It is situated at the top of Blackman-street, in the Borough of Southwark. The entrance to it from St. George’s Fields is by a handsome court-

' yard,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. )\

yard, where there are three £ood homes. The

O

largest of tliein is the proper residence of the Marshal; one for the Clerk of the papers with his office on the ground-lioor; and the third is generally let to persons of rank and fortune, who are committed by the Court for challenges, libels, or other misdemeanors. From this court-yard the ascent is by a few stone steps into a lobby, which has a good room on the right-hand, and over it several good apartments, which, I was informed, usually let at five guineas a week; also two rooms, called Strong-Rooms, to secure those who have attempted to escape. These Strong Rooms are about 12 feet by S: one of them has a flagged floor, and is occasionally used as a coal-hole; the other has a boarded floor. No fire-place in either; no casements, or shutters, to keep out the weather.

From the lobb}r is a descent by a few stone steps, into a small square yard, where there is a pair of great gates and a small door, with a lodge for the turnkeys, and a room over it, generally let at one guinea a week. On the right-hand of this gate, on entering the inner part of the prison, there is a brick building, called ccthe State House, ” containing eight large handsome rooms, let at 2s. Gd. each per week to those who have interest to procure one. Opposite to the State House is the Tap-room, where from y2 to 24 butts of beer are drawn weekly. In thi ?

t 2 tap-

292

ACCOUNT or PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

tap-room is a bar; and on one side is a very neat small parlour, belonging to the person who keeps the tap. On the other side is a room on a larger scale, called the Wine-room, where prisoners and their friends occasionally resort. The residence of the prisoners is in a large brick building, about 120 yards long, with a wing at each end, and a neat uniform chapel in the centre. There is a space of ground in front of the building, of about forty yards, including a parade of about three yards paved with broad flag-stones. In the space between the building and the wall are three pumps, well supplied with spring and river water; also another pump, at the side of the further wing, with a spring of very fine water. Part of the ground next the wall is appropriated for playing at rackets and fives; and there are also, in different parts, frames of wood, with nine holes in each frame, called Bumble-puppy grounds, where the prisoners amuse themselves with trying to bowl small iron balls into the holes marked with the highest numbers.

The building is divided into sixteen staircases, with stone steps and iron railings. No. 1, at the further wing, contains 21 rooms; and on each staircase the ranges of rooms are divided by a passage, or gallery, about two yards wide. In the staircases No. 2, 3, 4, and 5, there are four rooms on each floor, making lfi in each staircase, separated from

each

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 2^3

each other by a passage of about a yard wide. The staircase No. 6, contains 12 rooms, besides two small cabins. No. 7, 8, and p, contain eight rooms each. JSo. 10, contains po rooms, separated from each other by a passage, about 20 yards long and two wide. The staircases No. 11, 12, lfl, 14, and lj, have eight rooms each, and are at the back of the

O *

building, but separated from the wall by a space of about eight yards. Each staircase has eight rooms, with a passage of about a yard wide. No. 16‘ is also in the further wing, at the back of the building; has a spacious wide staircase, with passages or galleries on each floor, four yards wide; and contains, in the whole, 20 rooms.

The whole number of rooms, including the eight state rooms, is 224; the size of them, in general, is 15 to 16 feet by 12 or 13 feet: some few are on a little larger scale. In each room is a strong iron

O O

range, and on each side a recess, either for a bed or a cupboard. All the rooms that were destroyed by the fire, some years ago, are now arched with brick, to prevent in future any fire from extending beyond a single room. In the passage from the entrance to the back of the building is a Coffee House *, where there was formerly an ordinary every day, at 2s. per head, with a pint of porter included. The

* Here a prisoner may be accommodated with a bed by the pight or week (as he can agree) till he gets chummage, or a room.

Marshal j

tf94

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEHTOIIS

Marshal, I am tolcl, receives an annual rent of 10j/. from the person who keeps it.

Beyond the coffee-room is a Bake-house, which pays also a rent of 3G guineas per annum. And on the opposite side of the way is the Public Kitchen, where the prisoners may have their meat roasted and boiled gratis, before one o’clock. After that time the cook charges 2d. or 3d. for each joint, according to the size of it. Between the coffeehouse and the public kitchen, there are generally two or three butcher’s stalls, a green-market, and persons selling fish:and in the further wing is a large tap-room, called the Brace, from its having once been kept by two brothers, whose names were Partridge. Over this tap-room is another room of the same size, occupied by a prisoner, where the newspapers may be read, and tea, coffee, &c. may be had; but the man having been detected in selling spirituous liquors, the Marshal turned him out, and gave the room to another prisoner. The lower rooms on the parade are, many of them, converted into chandlers . shops, kept by prisoners *.

The management and government of this prison is in the hands of a Marshal; who has under him a

* I Weis informed by a prisoner, in January 1804, that there were fifteen ichifile-Jhops in the prison, where debtors could buy gin, which was sold under various names, viz. Moonshine, Sky-blue, Mexico, kc. and that a hogshead of gin was consumed wczkbj in it.

Deputy

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND. AND W \I.KS.

J)eputy Marshal, a Clerk of the Papers, several Clerks, three Turnkeys, and their Assistants. As the Marshal, Deputy Marshal, and Clerk of the Papers, I am informed, seldom come into the prison, every complaint must be made by letter, or by a personal application at the oil ice of the Clerk of the Papers. If it relates to any quarrel or disturbance, it is generally settled in a summary way. The Marshal is a Magistrate, and also armed with a Rule of Court, authorizing him to commit any person to the New Gaol for riotous or disorderly conduct; one month for the first offence, and three months for a second: But, the prisoner may appeal either to the Court, or to a Judge out of term.

No spirituous liquors are allowed to be sold within the prison:and, by a Rule of Court, no women or children ought to stay in the prison after ten o'clock. At half past nine, therefore, a man goes round with a bell, and at certain places calls out, “ Strangers, ivomen, and children, out F The number of prisoners, before the act of insolvency of 17, 07 was upwards of 600; about 200 of whom were excluded by the limitations of the sum, and time. After the act of 1801 about 150 were left in prison; many of those who had been a meat number of

%/ O

years confined were excluded from benefit, on account of the limitation of the sum; and others, who were not within the term specified by the act. Not

more

2q6 account of' rmsoNS for debtors

more than three or four were remanded under the act, for fraud, Sec. March 10th, 1802, the numbers within the walls were 315, and 5~ within the Rules: Jail. 13th, 1804j within the walls and Rules, 520.

When a debtor is first committed to this prison, lie is entitled to have what is called a Chummage, as soon as he has paid his fees. This Chummage is a ticket given him by the Clerk of the Papers, to go to such a room; and whether it be to a whole room, the half, or the third of a room, must entirely depend on the number of prisoners within the walls. But, as it is more convenient for persons, when they first come to this prison, to hire a bed for a week or two, there are always great numbers of distressed persons willing to hire out their beds, on being paid two or three shillings per night. Others, who are distressed, let their right to half a room at §s. per week, and sleep in the tap-room, on the benches, in hammocks, or on matresses. The Clerk of the Papers has the entire management and disposition of the rooms. He is assisted by the eldest Turnkey, who goes round every Monday morning, and receives the weekly rent of one shilling.

The Poor Side of the prison now consists of sixteen rooms, at the back of the building. The number seldom exceeds 30. They are governed by a set of Rules of Court, made in the year 1729, as follows.

Rules

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 2^7

Rules and Orders, for the better Government, Sec, made and signed the 2f>th November, \"t

1. The stocks to be kept up, for punishment of blasphemers, swearers, rioters, he.

2. Against illegal methods of confinement. None to be

confined in an unusual place, or manner, unless for attempting to escape. And such may appeal to the Court, or a Judge.

3. Marshal not to remove any to the Fleet by writ of

Habeas Corpus.

4. Marshal not to remove any one from the Common-

side, and its benefits, without three days notice; during which time the prisoner may appeal to a Judge,

5. Coroner’s Inquest upon the dead.

<5. Against Garnish, and partial distribution of dividends.

7. Prisoners to send out for necessaries; and to brine: in

J O

their own bedding, he.

8. Table of Fees, these Rules, and a List of Charities,

to he hung up in a public room.

9. Marshal and Servants to behave with the utmost tenderness.

10. Turnkey always to attend at the door.

11. No servants to partake of, or even distribute the Charity.

12. Chapel to be kept in repair. Chaplain duly to perform.

13. The abusive to the stocks.

14. Dining-room to be kept in repair, for devotion, or

conversation; with a fire. Two rooms for the sick.

15. Those who make oath before, he. that they have not

5l. he. to be admitted to the charities, offices in the prison, he.

16. No

298 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

16. No person committed for any criminal matter to vote

for Steward, See. or to partake of any charity, but the baskets.

17. Lodging in a Cabin of any ward, gratis.

18. Any prisoner may be chosen Assistant, and enjoy the

benefit of that station.

19. The seal of the Common side to be kept by the Master of the King’s Bench office; and not put to any deed without the approbation of Marshal, Steward, and Assistants.

20. One supersedable action may be superseded with

Common side money: more than one, not without application to the Court, or a Judge. No Judge’s clerk to take a fee on the occasion.

21. The sick to be taken care of by the Steward and Assistants, who are to be reimbursed out of the first county-money.

22. Debts contracted by the Steward and Assistants, with

the Marshal’s'and Master’s consent, for support of» the poor, to be paid out of the next dividend.

23 Steward and Assistants to have no pay for common business, or adjusting differences.

24. Prisoners entered after the first day of Easter-term,

to have but one quarter of the Midsummer dividend.

25. All money brought in byT the basket-men, or brought

in at Christmas, Easter, and Whitsuntide, to be divided immediately, after paying the basket-men for their trouble.

26. If the Marshal advance money for a supersedeas, he

is to be reimbursed out of the next county-money.

27. Com-

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALKS

‘-uy

27. Common side prisoners may elect an annual Steward;

who is not to be deposed, but on application to the Court, or a Judge. No prisoner in the Rules may vote.

28. The Steward to enter in books the Tables of Fees,

these llules, and a List of the Charities. All, together with his Accounts, for inspection of the prisoners.

29. A prisoner, wronged by the Steward and Assistants,

on applying to the Court or a Judge, shall be paid his damages out of the next dividend of the Steward and Assistants. If he complains unjustly, he shall make satisfaction from his own next dividend.

30. If the Steward or Assistants embezzle the money, suc-

cessors may call them to account, and stop their dividends of the grate-money, &c. for reparation of the injury.

31. These orders to be read publicly every third Monday. 32. Marshal, servants, and prisoners, to observe these

Rules, under pain of the utmost punishment of law.

33. No clerk or servant of a Judge to take any fee, on occasion of a petition founded on these Orders.

(Signed) 11. Raymond.

.James Reynolds. E. Probyn.

Further Rules and Orders for the Government, &c. made and signed the 10th day of May, 1/ofh

1. No person to bring any weapon.

2. Those on the Master's side who demand Garnish, to be turned to Common side for a time^not longer than a month. Those on (lie Common side arc,

for

300 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

for the like of Fcncc, to be excluded, not longer than a fortnight, from all profits, except share of the baskets.

3. Doors of the great garden to be shut at dark: doors of the wards at nine.

4. The chambers at disposal of the Marshal, &c.

5. If a Master’s side prisoner neglect for a month to pay

his chamber-rent, he may be turned over to the Common side till he pays. His goods to be delivered to him by a witnessed inventory. If discharged by the Plaintiff, he may yet be detained for fees, and a month’s chamber-rent. t>. None to sell in the prison victuals or drink, without consent of Marshal. A prisoner thus offending may be turned over to the Common side for a month. Marshal to take care that those who sell do keep good order, &c.

7. Confirms the 14th Rule preceding; i. e. the great

room for exercise, and the two rooms for the sick.

8. Prisoners turned to Common side for offending, or

non-payment, to have no profit, but share of the baskets; to bear no office; nor vote for officers.

9. These Rules to be fixed in the most public places,

for inspection.

(Signed) Mansfield.

T. Dennison.

M. Forster.

E. WILMOT.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALE*.

A further Rule and Order, See. made lpth May, lfb'O.

Those who attempt or assist an escape; who sell or promote the sale of victuals or liquors, without leave of the Marshal; who assault another; who blaspheme the name of God; swear, or make a riot; may be sent by the Marshal to any one of the following prisons in Southwark; vi~. the County Gaol for Surry, the Bridewell for that county, or to the Marshalsea; and there confined, for the first offence, not exceeding one month; for a second offence, not exceeding three months.

This Rule to be hung up.

(Signed) Mansfield.

T. Dennison.

M. Forster.

E. Wilmot.

On the same sheet is,

A Table of Fees, to be taken by the Marshal of the King’s Bench Prison, in the County of Surry, for any Prisoner or Prisoners’ Commitment, or coming into Gaol, or Chamber Rent there, or discharge from thence in any Civil Action. Settled and established the l6th day of June, in the 33d year of the reign of his Majesty King George the Second, and in the year of our Lord 17G0, pursuant to an Act for the relief of Debtors, with respect to the imprisonment of their persons; viz.

I. s. d.

1. To the Marshal, for every Prisoner committed on any Civil Action, - -*048

2. To

302

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

I. s. cl

2. To the Turnkey on the Master’s side, 0 1 6

3. To the Marshal, on the discharge of every

such prisoner, - - 0 7 4

4. To the Deputy Marshal, upon the discharge

of one or more actions, executions, or

other charge; and no further fee, though

there be ever so many actions, 0 4 0

5. To the Clerk of the Papers, for the first

action upon the discharge, 0 3 0

6. To the Clerk of the Papers, for every action,

execution, or other charge, to he paid on the discharge, - 0 0 4

7. To the Deputy Marshal, upon a commitment of a Prisoner in Court, or at a

Judge’s Chambers, in any civil action,

if carried to the King’s Bench Prison, 0 1 0

8. To the Clerk of the Papers for the same, 0 1 0

9. To the said Deputy Marshal, for a surrender in discharge of bail, be there

ever so many actions, - 0 1 0

10. To the Clerk of the Papers, for each action

upon such surrender, - 0 0 6

11. To each of the four Tipstaffs, 2s. 6d. for

each Prisoner’s commitment by the Court, and carried to the King’s Bench Prison, in the whole, - 0 10 0

12. To the Tipstaff that carries any prisoner

committed at a Judge’s Chambers to the said Prison, 1 - - 060

33. To the Marshal, for the use of chamber, bed, bedding, and sheets, for each Prisoner, if provided by the Gaoler at the

Prisoner’s

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

I.

Prisoner’s request, for the first night, in the Common side of the said Prison, - 0

14. For the like use, every night the Prisoner

remains in custody after the first, - 0

15. And if two lie in a bed, Id. each - - 0

16. For the like use, of every Prisoner that goes

on the Master’s side, for the first night, 0

17. For the like use, every night after the first, 0

18. And if two lie in abed, 2d. each, - 0

19. And if the prisoner finds his own bed, bed-

ding, and sheets (which the Marshal is in no sort to hinder him of), then he shall pay for chamber-rent to the Marshal, per week, 0

No other Fee for the use of Chamber, Bed, Bedding, and Sheets, or upon Commitment or Discharge of any Prisoner on [any Civil Action.

Thomas Howard. Mansfield.

Anthony Thomas Abdy. T. Parker.

William Hammond. I

303

s. d.

0 G

0 11 0 2

0 6 0 3

0 4

1 0

I copied

304

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

I copied the following List of Benefactions, on the 6th of March, 1802, from the Book kept on the Common Side of the Prison. It is intituled, iC An Account of Gifts and Donations to the poor cc Prisoners, on the Common Side of the King’s t£ Bench Prison.”

I s.

County-money *, paid quarterly by the Clerk to the Chief Justice of the Court of King’s Bench, at \5l. per quarter, - 60 0

The Gift of Sir Thomas Gresham, paid by the Chamberlain of London, at 2/. 105. per quarter, - - - 10 0

Lady Bertie, at Lady-day yearly, deducting

Land-Tax, - -20

Mr. John March, \l. and interest of Old South Sea Annuities, 12s. 5d. paid at Michaelmas, by the Mercers’Company, - - 1 12

Mrs. Smith, at Christmas yearly, paid by Fishmongers’ Company, - 0 3

Mrs. Hackett, ditto, by ditto, - - 0 13

Arthur Mouse, Esq. by ditto, - -03

Parish of St. Sepulchre, yearly, - - 0 10

Sir John Peachy, Christmas, yearly, by Grocers’ Company, - -05

Mr. Garrett, by Salters' Company, ditto, annually, - - 0 6

Mr. Horne, ditto by ditto, - - 0 5

* By the 43d Elizabeth, Chap. II. Sect. 15.

d.

0

0

0

5

4

4

4

O

0

8

0

Robert

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 305

I. S. d.

Robert Rampston, Esq. called Brass Money *,

deduct Land Tax, -10 0

Lady Osborne, quarterly, 10s\ - -200

Lady Ramsey, every Christmas, lOOlb. of beef, sent by Allhallows and St. Andrew’s Undershaft, alternately.

Mrs. Margaret Deane, nine and a half stone of beef, and five dozen of bread yearly, by Ironmongers’ Company.

Airs. Margaret Symcott, (Eleanor Gwyn’s) sixty-five penny loaves every eight weeks.

The Leathersellers’Company in bread 2s. Sd. and in cash sometimes 4s\ sometimes 8s. quarterly.

St. Dunstan in the East, a fore quarter of beef, weight 27 stone, 6 lb. and a peck of oatmeal, yearly, at Midsummer.

Company of Parish Clerks, yearly, on 1st of

November, - 1 1 0

The Company of Drapers, sixty penny loaves

annually, in December, 0 5 0

The Company of Cutlers, annually, in Decem-

ber, the Gift of Air. Craythorne, 0 15 0

The Gift of Thomas Dawson, Esq. paid annually

by the parish of St. Ethelburg, 0 9 0

His Grace the Archbishop^of Canterbury usually

gives at Christmas, - 1 0 0

The Sadlers’ Company, a free donation of 2s. Gd.

pei' quarter, - 0 10 0

The City of Norwich, annuallj ', 1 1 0

* So called, from a memorial engraved on a brass plate, and fixed in the wall of the prison, by order of the donor, to perpetuate his gift 1 but, since the wall has been rebuilt, it is taken away *

XT

When

306 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

When once Prisoners are admitted on the poor-side, they become entitled to their share of all charities, bequests, gifts, and donations; a list of which ought to be put up in some conspicuous part of the prison, but which, for some reasons, is not complied with. Every person, as soon as he is admitted on this charity, must also take his turn to hold the begging-box at the door; which prevents many, who have lived in respectable situations, from applying for relief in this way: Nay, there are instances of men that have held situations in the army and navy, respectable merchants, and tradesmen, who, (sunk into misfortunes, and abandoned by their former friends,) rather than submit to this degradation, have shut themselves up for months in their rooms, and become so emaciated, from the want of wholesome and necessary food, as to lay the foundation of those disorders, which have ended in their death.

The staircases and lobbies are in the most filthy state imaginable; and, in respect to the prisoners’ rooms, some are very dirty, others tolerably clean; but, each preserving that degree of cleanliness which satisfies himself I

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND U ALTS.

KINGSTON; Surry.

Gaoler, IFllUam IValter. Salary, .None.

Fees, 4a. 2d. No Table,

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. Taylor; makes a bill.

p!80>, Jan. l[)tli, - I

Number of Debtors, < 1805, June 30th, - 1

llS06‘, May lltli, - 0

Allowance. None. The late Keeper informed me he had frequently made application to the Bailiff of the Borough for a daily allowance, but was always told there was none Jar them.

REMARKS.

This prison belongs to the Bailiff' and Corporation, and debtors are committed by process issuing out of the Court of Record. A Court is held every Saturday; but application for the sixpences, or a supersedeas, ' can only be made at a Court in Term-time, upon fourteen days’ notice. The prisoner, on application, obtains a rule for the plaintiff' to appear at the next court; who may then object to the prisoner’s schedule, and will have till the next court to make his objections; which, if not satis-

u 2 factory

308 account of prisons for debtors

factory, the prisoner will he ordered his sixpences, or superseded. For poor debtors there is one room on the ground-floor, lS feet by 14, and 6 feet 6 inches high; and adjoining to this room there is a narrow slip, or lobby passage, 14 feet long by 3 feet wide, with an iron-grated window towards the street, where the prisoner solicits relief from casual charity.

As the Corporation allows neither bed nor bedding, the Keeper had humanely furnished the poor debtor with a bedstead, mattress, blanket, and a rug; in return for which the prisoner did any little jobs which the nature of his confinement would admit of. Above stairs are four rooms, one of which is well furnished, for those who can pay Js. 6d. per week. Another room furnished in an inferior manner, at 2s. 6d. a week. The two other rooms have no bedsteads nor beds in them, but are appropriated to felons at the assize. The Gaoler is a Sheriff's-officer *, and, in lieu of salary, is allowed to keep a Tap. '

Thus is a licensed alehouse become a necessary part of the prison establishment, by being made a means of its finance. The whole prison out of repair, and dirty. No court-yard. No water accessible to the prisoners. It is in contemplation to build a new gaol, with a court-house, &c.

KINGSTON UPON HULL. See HULL.

* See note, p. 74.

In England, Scotland, and wales.

ZOO

KNARESBOROUGH; Yorkshire.

Castle Gaol.

Gaoler, William Ellison, who officiates by ft deputy, Edward Jeffery.

Salary. None.

Fees, 6s. 8d. No Table.

Surgeon. None;

{1800, May lftlg - 1 1802, Jan. 28th, - 2

1802, Sept. 2d, - - 0

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is in the honour or forest of Knaresborough; and the Liberty includes nineteen townships, &c. It is the property of the Duke of Devonshire, lessee to his Majesty, and almost the only remains of a castle granted by king Edward III. to John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster. It formerly consisted of one room, 12 feet square, with a chimney and glazed window; and an inner room S feet square, which had no window. A new gaol was built in within the castle yard.

This

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR. DEBTORS

This prison now consists of two sleeping-rooms* each about lf> feet by 8, with lofty and arched delinks, in one of which is a fire-place, and a sewer in one corner:The doors have each an iron cylinder to -admit the debtors’ provisions. The window, placed very high, is of a semicircular shape, close glazed, and without a casement, so that I did not wonder to find the prisoners had broken the glass to prevent suffocation: the only place for the admission of air is an aperture in the wall, 9 inches by 2f, and even that is almost stopped up by an iron bar, one inch thick, placed lengthwise. Ventilation might be introduced by an iron-grated window in the wall towards the castle; and it would have this farther convenience, that the debtor might see his friends, and receive victuals, without the trouble of taking the gaoler from his workshop, and passing through six doors to gain admittance.

A begging-box, suspended from this iron-grated window, would, in all probability, compensate for No allowance; by soliciting the notice of the numerous gentry who resort hither, to see the ruins of this once famous castle. At present it bears no appearance of a prison, and thousands may go away, without knowing it to be a place of confinement. Here is a small flagged court, 1 / feet by S, but of which, the woman told me, the prisoners had seldom the use, on account of its being insecure, and

not

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 3H

Dot under the keepers view. No water, but what is fetched from the town. When the prison was built, a door opened into the castle-yard; but this I found bricked up.

There is something so affecting in the following detail, that I cannot help transcribing it here, though already published in the second edition of my “ Account of Debtors.”

By a letter to me, dated 2pth June, 1800, the only prisoner here was William Elmsley, (committed for debt 30th June, 1799; ) who says, “ Any person wishing to see him, upon obtaining the gaoler's leave, must pass through six doors. He has only the yard above described to walk in; the window and wall so high, that he has very little light or air. That, since he came in, he had a fellow-prisoner; but he only lived ten weeks; he himself had been ill for seven weeks; and that the preservation of his life was owing to the gratuitous attendance of Mr. Day, surgeon at Harrogate, and Mr. Dent, surgeon at Knaresborough.” Elmsley's debt was 17/. 5s. and the Costs amounted to ll/. ys. lid.

Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, were hung up in 1802; but I found the gaol both light and clean.

KXARLS-

312

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

KNARES BOROUGH, -

Prison for Town Debtors.

This Prison is vulgarly called Nine Holes, from as many spaces betwixt the nine Bars in the window, which give it all the light it can receive.

It stands under the Town-hall, and consists of one wretched room, 12 feet square, and 6 feet high; with the above mentioned window, of 1J inches byfi.

Here is no Court-yard:No allowance: No water! In so sad a place as this, a few years ago, two debtors, named Harrison and IVetherhall, were confined for six months.

t(Formerly, ” says Mr. Howard, “ the common (C sewer of the town ran through this prison, ui> <c covered; and an officer, who was confined in it (< for a few days only, in the spirit of precaution, “ took with him a dog, to defend himself from the u vermin. The dog was soon destroyed, and the “ prisoners face much disfigured by them. The u floor, however, is now paved, and the drain is <c covered.

The prison very dirty. At my visit, 2d of September, 1802, there were no prisoners.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 313

LANCASTER CASTLE.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Higgin.

Salary, Gool. out of which he pays three Turnkeys.

Fees and Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. John Woodrow.

Duty, Sunday, prayers and Sermon; Wednesday and Friday, prayers.

Salary, 50l. Also from the Dutchy, 4/. and from the Sheriff 15.9. for his attendance on every Protestant malefactor who suffers death. Roman Catholicks are attended by a priest of their own persuasion, who receives the like sum from the Sheriff.

Surgeon, Mr. Baxendale. Salary, 261. and allowed for medicines.

Number of Debtors, (l8°2’ Selrt- ~2<i’ ' ?G

(. 1805, Oct. 24th, - 74

Allowance, Is. each per week, in bread.

REMARKS.

This Castle, first built for a place of defence by the Romans, afterwards became the palace, or feudal residence of the Dukes of Lancaster; and at an early period was converted into a County Gaol.

Die

314 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

The situation is elevated and healthy. The Gaoler s house, which is a handsome building, and well situate for commanding a view of the spacious courtyard, fills up the space between the gateway and the well-tower to the right. The Female Debtors’ Prison is a room within the gateway, and their court-yard is in common with the men.

The area of that part of the Castle-yard which is appropriated to debtors only, contains about 2JQ2 square yards. On the West side is a large arcade, for exercise in wet weather, or air in summer; and over it are six day-rooms, each 14 feet p, by 12 feet 3. In a wing adjoining are three rooms, each 40 feet by 14: That on the ground-floor is used as a workshop for debtors.

In the Well Tower are four rooms; one of which is 20 feet square, and the average size of the rest is 23 feet by eleven.

In the gateway-tower are eight rooms, and an apartment for the Turnkeys:over which is a room for Debtors, called the Pigeon-Box, 33 feet 8 inches by 12 feet 10; and two very spacious reception-rooms, where diseased prisoners are put, until examined by the Surgeon.

Above the entrance is the ancient Court-room, now occupied by the Female Debtors, in size 25 feet 8 inches, by 15 feet 3. Also a narrow winding

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. *15

?ng staircase to tlit^ attick story, on which are three ample rooms, of about 33 feet each by lb.

Svery Debtor, on his commitment, pays 7s. 6<L towards coals, and 2s. lor pots and pans. The .Magistrates formerly allowed a mop for each room; 'hut, from the insolence and extravagance of some of the debtors, that indulgence is now discontinued. When a poor debtor cannot pay for coals, be generally does the domestic work of the room instead of it; and if he cannot immediately pay for a bed, -he obtains half a bed on credit, which is occasionally paid for by the Keeper out of the Chari tv Fund.

When the number of Debtors does not exceed seventy or eighty, many sleep in single beds; hut when more, they are under the necessity of assigning a bed for two persons. At my visit there were only three single beds in the whole of the debtors’ apartments.

All the wards are free; and poor debtors who hire beds from the town, pay from six-pence to eighteen pence a week for the use of one.

That part of the Great Tower, or Citadel, formerly called the Lungess, is now the Chapel, in size 55 feet by 26; where there is a commodious gallery for the Debtors, and seven separate divisions in the area below for criminals, who are placed in classes, and out of sight of each other;

O

) re-

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

310

I remarked with pleasure, that the men and women felons were particularly clean at Chapel, when I attended Divine Service on Wednesday the 22d September, 1802; and was informed that they were obliged to wash their hands and face every morning *

O J o-7

before they can receive their allowance. Die whole number (ubiety) were present at prayers, except two or three, employed on necessary business: their behaviour was silently attentive, and the countenances of all clearly shewed their love and respect for Mr. Jliggin, the Gaoler, who, to great humanity and firmness of character, adds those religious regards which do him honour.

List of Charitable Legacies to the Debtor Prisoners in Lancaster Castle.

£. s. d,

(l From. Mrs. Henrietta Rigby's Executor, to twelve of the most necessitous and well-behaved prisoners, five shillings each; paid by the Mayor of Lancaster, on the first day of March every year -30 0

il From Mrs. Lang ton, paid by Lawrence Raws-

thorn, Esq. at each Assize - - 2 0 0

“ From Sir Thomas Gerrard, of Gartswood; paid by Mr. Pinsick, Steward to the present family; due about the 1st of August, 8 0 0

<l Paid, under a Decree of the Court of Chancery of this County, out of an Estate in Skermisdale, called Sand, late belonging to Peter Latham, deceased; distributed every

August

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

317

iL s. d.

August Assize, by the Trustees of the said Peter Latham, or their order:paid by Messrs. Greaves and Co. of Preston, - G 0 Q f(By the Will of William Edmondson, of Outii-waitc, half the Bent of a Field in Scotforth, purchased by the money left for such purpose by the said Will; paid by the County Treasurer, in Bread. — N.B. This Field is notv (October, 1805), in the tenure or occupation of Mr. G. Marshall, at the yearly rent of Five Pounds; and the other half of the rent is paid to the Prisoners at Preston, - 2 10 0

From Mrs. Abigail Rigby's Executors, paid by the Mayor of Lancaster every St. Thomas’s Day - - 2 0 0.”

There are excellent Rules and Regulations for the government of the Criminal Side of this prison, which are printed and stuck up in different parts oi the building: and the worthy Chaplain is empowered, at the expence of the County, to purchase Bibles and Common Prayer Books, and distribute them at his discretion, for the instruction of the poor prisoners.

The humane Surgeon, Mr. Baxendale, is frequent in his visits, and particularly attentive to the sick. He^makes a regular entry of the state of his patients, in a book kept for that very useful purpose. The Act and Clauses are conspicuously hung up j paid the prison kept exceedingly clean.

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS.

318

LANCASTER.

Town Gaol.

Keeper* the Town Sergeant.

No Prisoners* at my visits in Sept. 1802* ami Oct. 1805.

REMARKS.

This temporary place of confinement is a room under the staircase of the Town Hall* 15 feet 8 inches long* by 11 feet'5, and 8 feet 10 inches high. It has a fire-place, with a window about three feet square* and contains two barrack bedsteads.

The door has an aperture of twelve inches square; and over it* on a stone Tablet* is inscribed *

Executio Juris nulli fac'd Injuriam.

1G69.”

Prisoners are sent hither before examination. When a debtor is taken in custody on a Borough process, the officer is under the necessity of keeping his prisoner in the Town Sergeant’s house* until the business is settled.

IN ENGLAND^ SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 31Q

LAUNCESTON; Cornwall.

Town Gaol.

Gaoler, the Town Sergeant.

Salary, none. Fees, none.

Surgeon, from the Corporation, when wanted.

No debtors here at my visits in 1803 and lSob.

Allowance. Two-pence yer day.

Remarks. This Gaol, called the Dark-house, is over the South-gate: the ascent to it is by a flight of steps. The room for criminals has an iron-grated window to the street, and two sleeping-cells, which open in the room, about f feet square; the doors only feet high, and 15 inches icide. The room above is the Gaol for Debtors; and its only light is from two apertures in the wall, about 3b inches by 9, almost totally obstructed by an iron bar placed lengthwise: straw on the floor, and a lire-place, but no fuel allowed. A half-tub supplies the place of sewer. No court. No water; the Constable brings it thrice a day. Debtors are sent here by process of the Borough Court, for sums to any amount. About a fortnight before my visit in 1803, a debtor had escaped, and none have been sent there since. The prison is much dilapidated, and very filthy. On asking the Keeper when it had been white-washed, he told me he had often applied to the Mayor to have it done; but the answer was, “ The blacker it is, <e the better: it has more the appearance of a Gaol."

320

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

LEICESTER, County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Simo)is.

Salary, 130l. out of which he allows every prisoner a quart of small-beer daily.

Fees; see Table. Besides which the Under-Sheriff demands a fee of 6s.Sd. for his liberate! Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Anderson. Salary, 60I. Duty, Prayers four days; Sermon on Sunday.

Surgeon, Mr. Maude.

Salary, 15^. for debtors and felons.

Number of Debtors,

1800, March 28th, - 18 I 1805, Sept. 26th, - S J8O3, Aug. 23d, - 12 1 180; , July 30th, - 11

Allowance. One pound six ounces of bread, sent every other day, in loaves of 2 lb. 12 ozs* each; and one quart of small-beer daily.

REMARKS.

This County Gaol, without, looks as it should do: it has a prison-like appearance. The architect, Mr. Moneypenny, has shewn his knowledge of grand design, bordering on the terrific. It was first inhabited

ifc ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. g21

habited in i/D3j and has four airy Court-yards, with Water in all, and a day-room to each. The Court for debtors is 74 feet by 32, and the day-room 2f) feet by l3i:For those on the Master’s side there are ten rooms, to which the Keeper furnishes beds, at 25. 4d. per week, for a single bed; and if two sleep together, 15. 6d. a week each. Common-side debtors have a free-ward, with ten good-sized sleeping-rooms, bver the Men Felons’ cells, to which they furnish their own beds. One room is set apaf t for an Infirmary, 30 feet by lb, with opposite windows, and a fire-place.

The Clauses of the Act against the use of Spirituous Liquors are painted on the same board as the Table of Fees. The Act for preserving the Health of the Prisoners not hung up. No firing allowed. Those prisoners who work receive all their earnings, but no county allowance of breach Six of the debtors and-two criminals were weaving stockings, and one making shoes, at my visit in 1803. Here, as in many other Gaols, is an useless tub, and two cold baths never used.

Formerly there used to be an annual collection, by a kind of voluntary brief. The Gentlemen of the Grand Jury recommended it to the Clergy, who promoted the good work in their respective parishes. A Table w as kept of the sum received from each parish; a list of debtors clothed or discharged; and

N an

323 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

an account of the expenditure of the remainder in feeding and warming all the prisoners during the inclement season. The collection in 17 74 was 74/. In 1779, it amounted to 12/. i*s. 6d. In 17S0, to 61. Is. 9(1.; and in 1781, only to 3/. lSs. Mr. Gregory informed me by letter dated 28th August 1803, that no collection had been made for several years; that from 17.95 to 1803 the whole amount was only 5/. Is. 6d.; and that the balance then in his hands was 32/. 6s. 11 d.

ec Table of Fees to be taken by the Keeper of this Gaol.

s. d.

6i For lodging of every prisoner per week, - 2 4

For Gaol-fees for discharge of every prisoner 13 4

For the Turnkey, - - 2 0

For the copy of every warrant or commitment, I 0 For signing the certificate in order to obtain a supersedeas, - -10

Thomas & Bechet Sessions, July 10th, 1759-

((We, his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace for the County of Leicester, do hereby allow of the above fees.

IV. IVrighte, Ch. Hutchinson, J. Danvers, JV.C'anf.

tc We, the Judges of Assize, have reviewed, and do hereby confirm, the above Table of Fees, this I7U1 day of August, 1759.

T. Parker, Ja. Hewitt.”

* N ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. S^3

LEICESTER Town Gaol.

Gaoler, IVelborn Owston. Salary, 37^* 10s.

Fees. 155. 4(1. besides which the Under-sheriff demands 6s. 8d. for his liberate !

Chaplain, Rev. Thomas Robinson. Salary, 101.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon once a month.

Surgeon, Mr. Mauls; makes a bilh

Number of Debtors,

1803, Aug. 23d, - - 5 I 1807, Feb. 17th, - 4 1805, Sept. 2bth, - 4 I 1807, July 30th, - 2

Allowance, One pound six ounces of bread, sent from the bakers’ every other da) ', in loaves of 2 lbs. 12 oz. each.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, built in 1793, has on each side a narrow slip of ground, partitioned off by open iron palisades, and divided into Courts for the different classes of prisoners. The Court-yard for debtors is 32 feet by lb, with a day-room, 13 feet by 12, and upstairs eight lodging-rooms; to which, if the debtor brings his own bed, he pays nothing; the Keeper furnishes a single bed at 2s. 4d. per week; and if two sleep together. Is. <)d. each. The Qhapel is very small; No proper separation of the

x 2 prh

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

3U

prisoners. A room is set apart for an infirmary; and such care and humane attention to the sick is ever laudable, and a bounden duty:But the healthy also and the diligent require equal consideration. Instead, however, of encouraging industry, the very disposition to it seems here to be repressed, by a curious mode of penalty. Every prisoner, debtor, or criminal, in the Town-gaol of Leicester, that procures himself the means of labour, has not only his County allowance of bread stopped, but is even obliged to pay the Gaoler one shilling, or two shillings per week, for permission to work ! A novelty of this kind seems severe; and is such as I have never before met with, in my wide perambulation of the gaols. The Bath never used. Prison seldom visited. No Rules and Orders. Formerly a regular Table of Fees, but not visible for these many years. Act and Clauses not hung up. The Gaol clean,

and well supplied with water.

LEOMINSTER; Herefordshire.

Gaoler, James Morgan. He is the Town-crier.

Salary, 61. No Fees.

Allowance. Sixpence a day on petition.

The Gaol consists of two rooms upstairs, one of which is for debtors, the other for criminals. Here is a small court-yard, but of which prisoners have seldom the use. At my visits June 1802 and August 1803, no prisoners.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 325

LENTON (late BASFORD), Nottinghamshire.

Gaoler, George JfonibiceU. Salary, none.

Fees, 13s. 4(1. by the Court-roll.

Licence. Wine, Beer, and Spirituous Liquors.

Garnish. One shilling, spent in liquor.

Chaplain, or Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors, 1805, July 20th, one.

Oct. 3d, none.

Allowance. Formerly none; but now three pence a day in bread.

REMARKS.

This is his Majesty’s Gaol or Prison of the Court of Record of his honour of Fevered, and additional limits of the same, in the Counties of Nottingham and Derby. Henry Lord Middleton, by grant from Oueen Anne to his ancestor, Sir Thomas fViU loughby in fee, is the High Steward of this Honour, and its limits.

The prison, formerly at Basford, in this County, was afterwards removed to Lenton; and being in a decayed state, a new gaol was built in the bach yard of the Keeper’s public house, and first inhabited in 1805. It consists of a Court-yard, 30 feet by lG, paved with flag stones, and in it is a pump, and Here are two sleeping-rooms below, and

two

sewer.

326 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

two above, each 14 feet 6, by 12 feet 6, with fire- place and iron-grated glazed window in each. To these the Keeper furnishes beds at 2s. per week; or if two sleep together. Is. 6d. each. Here is a workroom, 12 feet 6, by 9 feet 6, with a window the whole length of the room. No employment furnished; but those who can procure it receive the whole of their earnings. Neither Act nor Clauses hung up.

The practice of this Court is trial before judge and jury, similar to the superior courts in Westminster^ hall, but most resembling the Common Pleas:proceeding by capias, &c. and the suits are in like manner carried on to judgment and execution, except that every Tuesday in the year is a Court-day, or Term, so that the proceedings are quickly dispatched, unless the defendant files a plea, ordemurrer, in which case the business is argued before Mr. Balgin/, Barrister at Law, the Steward and Judge, and a respectable Jury, at two general courts in the year, which Mr. Balguy appoints about Michaelmas and Easter, The debt and costs are from forty shillings up to-fifty pounds. The Keeper informed me that the annual average of commitments was twelve; and that one William Winson had been here confined for an original debt of four shillings and sixpence !

LEOMINSTER; seep. 324,

f See 19 Geo. 111. cap. LXX.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

LICHFIELD; Staffordshire. City and County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Pricket. Salary, f>0/.

Fees, 13s. 4d.; besides which the Under-sheriff demands 2s. 6d. for his liberate.

Garnish, Is.

Chaplain, none; the Rev. Mr. Proly attends when one is desired.

Surgeon. From the Corporation, if wanted.

f 1803, Aug. 24th, - 2

Number of Debtors, a n

; (. 1805, Oct. 31st, - 0

Allowance. 6d. a day from the parish, if paupers;

Remarks. Here is only one Court, 14 yards by 10, for debtors, felons, and all descriptions of prisoners, with a pump of excellent water in it, and a sewer. Upstairs are two rooms with bedsteads, for which, if the debtor brings his own bed and bedding, he pays nothing. If the Keeper furnishes a bed, and two sleep together, they pay 1-y. per week each. Debtors are allowed the use of the Keeper’s kitchen, or else find their own coals in their apartments. The three parishes allow 30$. a year (lO.v. each) for coals; and the Corporation 20s. per annum for straw. Neither the Act nor Clauses hung up. Hie Gaol white-washed once in two or three years.

328 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DET1TORS

LINCOLN CASTLE Gaol.

Gaoler, John Merry weather.

Salary, 300l. See Remarks.

Fees. None; but the Under-sheriff demands 6s. 8cl. for his liberate !

Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. George Davies Kent.

Duty. Twice a week Prayers, and a Sermon on Sunday; and to attend daily those under sentence of death.

Salary, 50l.

Surgeons, Messrs. Parnell and Frankly nx Salary, 30l. for debtors and felons.

{1800, March 2Cth, - 14 1801, Nov. 20th, - 16. 1802, Aug. 12th, - 11

Allowance. Debtors obtaining a certificate of their having no visible estate or effects, under the hands of the minister, churchwarden, and overseers of the parish they last lived in, are allowed by the County a pound and a half of good household bread per day, and one pound of good beef without bone per week. The bread is delivered three times

in

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 320

in the week in loaves of three pounds and a half each:the whole furnished by contract. Also four chaldron of coals every year, which are distributed half-quarterly.

N.B. Those debtors who receive their sixpences have no county allowance of food.

REMARKS.

This excellent Gaol for the County of Lincoln is situate in the Castle-yard, ' containing about seven acres of land, inclosed by a high wall. The premises are held by lease from the Dutchy Court of Lancaster, fora term of 30 years, at an annual rent of 10$. The new Gaol has been built about 18 years; is a good brick building, with stone facings. The front (which contains the gaoler’s and debtors’ apartments) is about 46 yards long, with near two acres of grass-plat fenced off in the front of it, ifor the use of the debtors, who enjoy the privilege of walking there during the daytime; with a well of good water in it. The sexes are completely separated by day and night.

One half of this building is occupied by the male debtors, having three day-rooms for Master’s-side debtors, average size 20 feet by 15 feet 6 inches, and 12 feet p inches high; and one for Common-side debtors, 21 feet by 1(7, and the same height. On the first floor are five lodging-rooms with

an

330 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

an airy passage communicating to them; average size 17 feet by 15 feet 6. On the second-floor are five other lodging-rooms of the same dimensions, one of which is for Common-side debtors.

The other half of the building is the Gaolers house, excepting two attic rooms for female debtors, one a day-room, the other a sleeping-room, 16 feet square, and each 10 feet high. In this story are also two large infirmary-rooms, 20 feet by 10, and 12 feet high. The chapel is 31 feet by 2S:it is neatly pewed:the debtors and felons are properly separated by a high framing, and the women out of view of the men; Here is no communication at any time between debtors and felons. The County furnishes no employment, but those of handicraft trades are allowed to work on their own account. Debtors and felons are all obliged to attend chapel. The prison is white-washed twice a year.

The Gaoler is required, out of his salary, to find three turnkeys, and a caterer, who attends every day at nine o’clock and three, to purchase in the town whatever prisoners may want (liquor excepted):He also supplies eight chaldron of coals a year, and straw, mops, tubs, buckets, &c. for the use of the prison.

The worthy Magistrates of this division are not only very humanely, but very religiously attentive to the comforts of the prisoners; having ordered any

sum.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 331

sum, not exceeding 5/. a year, at the discretion of the chaplain, to be laid out in the purchase of religious tracts for the use of all the prisoners. They are numbered and entered into a book when delivered out; are called in once a week, and then redelivered in the same manner; by which they get a change of readers; and their being lost or destroyed is prevented by the regularity with which it is done.

I can form, by long practice, a tolerably good judgment of a gaoler, from the countenances of his prisoners. Complacency and good order were visible in every part of this well-regulated Gaol; a sure proof that the keeper is intelligent, and humane.

The county does not allow bedding to the poor or certificated debtors; but has set apart a spacious day-room and a large sleeping-room, free of rent or any charge whatever, for the use of those who cliuse to find their own bedding.

Master’s-side debtors, or those who can afford it, may go into rooms furnished by the gaoler; for which they pay, if two sleep together, is. 3d. per week each:if a debtor has a bed to himself, 2s. 6d. weekly. The number of debtors committed to Lin-coln-castle in the last seven years was 365:of these '122 were for sums from 10/. to 20l.; and, of the whole number, lip were discharged without their plaintiff 's obtaining one farthing either of debt or costs i a proof of the folly of being so stimulated by

their

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

ion <JO~

their passions, as to go to law with fellow-creatures too poor and miserable to afford them any prospect of payment; for such those must be, who are certi-Jicated as Paupers !

Mrs. Rebecca Hussey, by her will, proved in London 10th May, 1715? bequeathed the interest of IOOOO/. to release poor debtors from this castle: but no debtors have received the benefit for many years past. I could get no account of it, and it seems to be entirely lost.

Mr. Thomas Ilesleclen, by his will, proved Sept. 21st, 1 /20, bound his estase called Works Chantri/ (a house now in the occupation of Mrs. Diary Cullen) at Lincoln, with the payment of 3/. a year, for the better maintenance of poor prisoners in the Castle; which is regularly paid.

Thomas-Robert Jenkinson, by will, proved February 13th, 1772, left the interest of 120/. to the debtors, equally to be divided among them on Easter Monday: with this proviso, ec that if the whole year’s “ interest is sufficient to discharge any one debtor u within fourteen days of the time of payment, u it shall be applied for that purpose, at the clis-(< cretion of his trustees.” From this legacy 5/. a year is paid out of a farm at Ripham (now in the tenure of W. Glossop), left by Mr. Jenkinson to John Harrison, Esq. of Norton-place. The trustees were Dr. Hunter and Mr. Dealtree of York.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

LINCOLN City and County Gaol.

Gaoler, Samuel Take; Salary, 40l.

Fees, on discharge, 6s. Sd. See Table. Garnish. Abolished.

Surgeon, when wanted:makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, (l8°2> A"S- 12tll>

I 1804, Aug. 13U1,

Allowance. To poor debtors Is. Gd. per week.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, at the Stone Boiv-Gate, has one large room, 10 yards by 5, for men debtors; and one smaller, for women; both upstairs, with iron-grated windows towards the street; in each a fireplace, a wood bedstead with straw, two blankets and a rug. These rooms are occasionally used for criminal prisoners. No Court-yard. They have now (180b) good water accessible, and a sewer. The Clauses against Spirituous Liquors hung up, but not the Act for Preservation of Health *. The whole prison dirty and dilapidated in the extreme. A new prison is nearly finished, which will render this wretched Gaol unnecessary.

J

* The Gaoler told me, that in July 1801 he had nearly lost hid life by four intoxicated felons, to whom a soldier’s misket had been conveyed through the grating; and observed. How is it possible for us to prevent liquors being handed in at the street-windows ?

<c Table

234 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

tc Table of Rates and Fees settled by the Justices at a General Quarter Sessions, held at the Guildhall, Lincoln, 14th July, 1759.

tl Every debtor that lies in a bed belonging to the keeper* is to pay one shilling weekly, and no more.

Any debtor that finds a bed, and places it in the common room, is to pay nothing for his lodging.

Every prisoner for debt is to pay one fee to the keeper for his discharge out of prison, though he stands committed in several actions; and that fee no more than six shillings and eight pence.

Every felon is to pay to the gaoler for his discharge out of prison six shillings and eight pence, and no more. If not continued in prison above a week, then to pay only three shillings and four pence.

Every prisoner that will eat with the gaoler is to pay for his lodging and diet weekly four shillings and six-pence, having three meals a day.

Every prisoner committed from the bar, by the Judges of Assize or Sessions, is to pay the gaoler for his discharge three shillings and four pence, and no more.

Rob. Obhinson, Mayor. Geo.Gibson. Rob.Drewry.

Jno. Hutton. Edw.Fowler. John Broivn.

Rob. Thichston. John Wilson. Brox. Brown.

Jno. Davies. Edw. Letherland.

t(We the Judges of Assize have revised this Table of Fees, and do hereby confirm the same; 9th day of August, 1/52 *

T. Parker.

Ja* Hewitt*”

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

<> <1 r. oj J

LIVERPOOL Borough Gaol.

CD

Gaoler, Edward Frodsham, Serjeant at Mace.

Salary, 130l.

£ s. d.

Fees; Debtors, from 10/. to 201 0 7 6

20 to 30 0 10 0

30 to 40 0 12 6

40 to 50 0 15 0

50 to 60 0 17 6

60 to 100 1 0 0

100 to 200 1 5 0

200 and upward 1 10 0

And the Under-sheriff demands one shilling

for his liberate.

Garnish, 4$. 6d.

Chaplain, Rev. George Monk, Salary, 31l. 10.?;

Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Sunday, and Prayers on Thursday.

Surgeon, from the Dispensary; for which 12/. j)er annum is paid by the Corporation.

Number of Debtors, 1llt:jb 71

I 1805, Oct. 24th, - 34

Allowance. To paupers a threepenny loaf per day, weight, October l8or>, 1 lb. 3 02.; and a dinner from the Mayor every Christmas-day. See Remarks> “ Legacy.”

ACCOUNT t)F PRISONS TOk DEBTORS

oo?J

REMARKS.

The castle of Liverpool, built by Roger de P6ic-tiers, was pulled down in the reign of George the Second; but the Earl of Derby’s castellated mansion has been for many years used as the Borough Gaol. Here is only one Court for all descriptions of prisoners:it is 20 yards by 10, paved with brick; and has a pump of excellent water, and two sewers. There are five day-rooms; three intended for meri debtors, one for women, and the fifth for criminal prisoners; but they are now used indiscriminately by an. One small room is set apart for the sick.

The prison is surrounded by old buildings, called the Tower Garden, and without taking (hem down it cannot be made healthy or convenient. A dunghill, in the Court-yard, is cleared away bnce a month. Common-side debtors have seven rooms, called free ivards, in one of the towers, to which the Corporation allows straw. Master s-side debtors have three rooms in the other tower; and to these the keeper furnishes beds, at one shilling per week each, two sleeping together.

At my visit in 1805 a gallery was built in the chapel; and five new sleeping-cells added, for men debtors, 7 feet 6 inches by 6 feet, and 7 feet 6 inches high; to which the keeper furnishes beds at one shilling per week each: also two new rooms

ovetf

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 337

Viver the Pilot’s Oihce, for women; one of which holds three beds, the other a single bed, fire-place, and glazed windows. To these latter rooms the Gaoler furnishes beds at the same price.

From the licentious intercourse between the sexes I imagined that little attention was paid to the minister; and therefore requested Mr. Staniforth (afi able and active Magistrate of the borough) to accompany me; when, out of 10$ prisoners, six only attended divine service, llth Oct. 1802.

All persons arrested for debt by process issued otit of the Borough Court of Liverpool are sent to this Gaol; and if the debtor intends to take the benefit of the Act of 32 George II. he must appear by his attorney'in Court, which is held every Thursday, and get a rule for declaration:The plaintiff has two full Courts afterwards to file his declaration; and when that is done, the defendant obtains a rule to confess the declaration, and is inconsequence brought into Court the court-day but one following; confesses the declaration, and then obtains a rule for the plaintiff to enter up his final Judgment, and charge the defendant in execution; which must be done the Court but one following. The defendant then gives fourteen days’ notice to the plaintiffj of his intention to take the benefit of the Act, and at the same time delivers a copy of the schedule of his effects. On the Court-day following his fourteen

Y days ’

338 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

days’ notice, the defendant presents a petition to the Court, with a schedule of his effects, and an affidavit of the service of same on the plaintiff'; and obtains a rule to be brought into court the next court-day, to take the oath prescribed by the statute, and have the benefit of the same: In which court the defendant takes the oath, and affidavit being made of the service of the Rule, the defendant is discharged; unless the plaintiff'appears in person, and declares that he is dis-satisfied with the schedule, which, if he does, the Court remands the defendant until the next court: at which court, unless proof be made of the insufficiency of the defendant’s schedule, or the plaintiff gives his note for 3, ?. 6d, a week, the debtor is discharged *

Abstract of a Deed in the Old Church at Liverpool, respecting the distribution of the Legacies of 200/. and 300/. left by Mrs. Ann Molyneux, in the year 1/27, to poor prisoners for debt, &c. in the Borough Gaol; also to poor sailors, and sailors’ widows, especially those in the Alms-houses.

“ This Indenture, quadripartite, &c. made the ()th day of October, in the year 1732, between Ralph Williamson of Liverpool, &c. Merchant, and Robert Whittle of Knows ley, See. Gentleman, executors of the last will, &c. of Ann Molyneux, late of Liverpool, &c. widow, of the first part; George

Tyrer

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 330

Tyrer of Liverpool, See. Merchant, of the second part; Hannah Tyrer of Low Hill, Sec. widow, of the third part; and Richard Gildart, Mayor for the time being, John Stanley, and Thomas Baldwin, Rectors of the parish, See. of the fourth parti Whereas the said Ann Molyneux, being charitably disposed, by her last will, See. dated the lpth day of January, in the year 1/27, gave, devised, and bequeathed to the said Mayor and Rectors, the sum of 200/. for the support and maintenance of poor prisoners for debt (or otherwise) in the gaol or prison for the Borough of Liverpool; and it was also declared to be her will and mind, that the said ' Mayor and Rectors should place the said sum of 200/. out at interest upon land security, if such could be had, and dispose of the said interest yearly, for the support and maintenance of the said prisoners.”

In a subsequent part of her last will, as referred io in the said indenture, she also bequeathed to the said Rectors for the time being, the sum of 300/. the interest of which was directed to be distributed by the said Rectors to poor sailors, and sailors’ widows, . especially those in the Alms-houses. It is afterwards mentioned in the said Indenture, that with the said sums of 200/. and 300/. were purchased three closes of land in Mosslake, containing seven acres of land, of the large measure; which were subjected

v 2 to

340 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

to the payment of two fifth parts of the rents and produce to the said Mayor and Hectors, for the support and maintenance of the said poor prisoners for debt (or otherwise) in the Borough Gaol; and the remaining three fifth parts of the rent and produce Were to be paid to the Hectors, and distributed yearly to the said poor sailors and sailors' widows, especially those in the Alms-houses, by the said Hectors.

The foregoing statement was faithfully extracted from the original Deed, (kept in St. Nicholass Church, Liverpool,) the 5th July, 1798, by

R. II. Roughs edge.

Produce of the Poors Fields in Mosslake, Liverpool, 1802.

From Mr. Carson, tenant, 767. Mr. IVhitloiv, do. 4l/-Clear yearly Bent - - 117^ *

The above Legacies appear to have been most judiciously laid out; and from the local situation of the land, so contiguous to the town, it will, in all probability, be soon built upon; when the revenue must be immense.

A new gaol was built here by Mr. Blackburn, a little way out of the town; on which the Corporation spared no expence. It is upon a large scale,

with a proper separation of the chases and sexes;

and

IN ENGLAND; SCOTLAND; AND WALES. 341

and for security, health; reformation; and convenience, appears to be one of the host gaols in the kingdom. Unluckily it was let to Government many years since for the confinement of French prisoners, who wantonly so damaged the building, that in 1807 it was not repaired nor inhabited.

The unhealthy Dungeons at the Town Gaol are still in use; of which, that the reader may form some idea, I will describe them, viz. Seven close dungeons, in a passage 11 feet wide, and 10 steps under ground; each Cf feet by 5 feet 0 inches, and 6 feet high. The grated apertures in the doors are only 11 inches by 6. When I was here, in 1802, four prisoners were locked up at night in each dungoon, which could allow 20 inches only for each person; and yet, in 1805, I found three new additional dungeons, all of the same size! ! !—Could the constructors of such scanty repositories but reflect, how very irksome it must be to aggravate the sorrows of the helpless, I flatter myself the above Remarks would tend to do awray an evil so palpably injurious. When will those who sit at ease learn to grieve for the added affliction of fellow creatures ? Justice is a sacred thing! but the extreme of its exertions is surely no less needless than deplorable.

342 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS.

LOSTWITIIYELL; Cornwall.

Gaoler, William Blewatt, Town Serjeant.

Salary, none. Fees, 13^“. 4r/. No Table.

Number of Debtors, Oct. 1803 and lSotf, none *

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

This is a Stannary Prison for Debtors, and the property of the Duke of Cornwall, Lord of the Stannaries. A large vaulted room below, called the Dungeon, was at my visit in 180G filled with lumber. The room above is now called the prison: it is 14 yards by 6, having iron-grated windows towards the street, with inside shutters, and straw on a, tarras floor, for men; and three rooms over it for women. There are several small sleeping-rooms, (to which the keeper furnishes beds at Ls'. per week:) used one year as the Sheriffs ward for the County. Here were formerly Rules, as at the King’s Bench and Fleet Prisons, and said to extend over the whole Borough. On the 14th Nova 1805, Salathiel Harris, committed the 11th July preceding, was liberated by nonsuiting his plaintiff. There being no allowance, the prisoner was brought to the grated window; from whence he solicited casual charity, by means of a shoe suspended by a cord, which the keeper had humanely provided for |iim.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 343

LUDGATE; London.

Gaoler, John Teague. Salary, 100l.

Fees. The prison-fees now taken are, on coming in Is. going out 2s.; and ^d. per week during confinement. The ex pence attending a commitment to Ludgate, exclusive of the prison-fees, is, To the clerk-sitter of one of the Compters, for making out the Duct facias (as it is called) 2s. 6d. if in execution, and Is. 4d. if on mesne process. To the serjeant at mace for conduct fee, 5s. Upon discharge it is various, being according to the number of writs; but if only one writ, then at the secondaries office 5s. 4^.; to the clerk-sitter at each of the two compters 3s. 8d.; and to the messenger one shilling.

Chaplain, Rev. John Rose. Salary, 50l.

Duty. Prayers and Sermon every Sunday.

Surgeon, Mr. Hodgson.

Salary, S0/. for Ludgate and the two Compters.

Number of Debtors,

1800, April 15th, - 28 I 1804, Sept, fith, - 9

1801, Sept, ltfth, - 12 j 1805, Nov. 13th, - 26

1802, March 14th, - 22 lSotf, May 24th, - lS

1803, Nov. 12th, - 25 I 1807, Feb. lfith, - 23

Allowance.

344 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS,

Allowance. A loaf of bread, weight 20 oz. every other day to each prisoner, and 1 lb. of rice, 3 lbs. of beelj and 5 lbs. of potatoes weekly, to each.

REMARKS.

This Prison was formerly one of the Gates of the City of London, and situated on Ludgate-hill, near the spot where the London Coffee-house now stands, it is at present appropriated for the reception of debtors, being Freemen of London, Clergymen, Proctors, Attorneys, or such other persons as the Court of Lord Mayor and Aldermen shall from time to time think fit to be removed hither. It is believed to have formerly had the privilege of permitting prisoners to go out (with a Keeper) for the purpose of calling upon their several creditors, to compromise their debts, or otherwise obtain their discharge: But that custom, whatever might have caused its origin, has many years been discontinued, and cannot now be traced.

About forty-six years ago, when old Ludgate (to which the Table of Fees, and Rules and Orders for its Government, were adapted) was pulled down, the prisoners were removed to the London Work-house, in Bishopsgate-street, a part whereof was fitted up for that purpose, and where Ludgate prisoners continued to be received until the year 1794;

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

cylj

when they were removed to the present prison of Ludgate, adjoining to, and partly encircled by, the Compter in Giltspur-street.

Ludgate has one small yard, 25 feet by 10; containing a pump, which supplies spring-water from a well in the Compter; another, affording soft-water from the river Thames; and a shed, under which is a bathing tub.

The yard leads to eight rooms; viz. the Hall, fitted up with benches and tables, for the general accommodation of all the Prisoners, as a sitting-room in the day-time, and until they usually retire to rest: It is the custom of this Gaol for the

prisoners to have access to the yard at all times, either by day or night. The hall has one fire-place, which is supplied by a subscription from the prisoners of six shillings at their entrance, and seven pence weekly afterwards:aided by charitable donations, the surplus of which, after payment of certain salaries hereafter described, is divided quarterly among such prisoners as have been in custody for the space of one month before the same became due.

The next is a long room over the hall, which will conveniently contain six persons, as a bed-room. The room over the long room will contain two persons, exclusive of two little rooms, partitioned from it, for the use of the sick.

34G ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

There is a small room over the chapel (which is on the ground-floor,) and this, together with another room over it in the second story, are convenient bedrooms for three persons each:likewise two cabins, used as bedrooms for one person each.

Two other rooms are upon the ground-floor on the other side of the yard; one of which is the bed-room of the steward and secretary, and the other a bed-room for three prisoners. The womens ward, over the steward’s room, will contain three persons. There are fire-places in the rooms, to which two chaldrons of coals a year are given by the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs.

All the prisoners here Jind their own beds and bedding, except one rug yearly, which the City allows to such as need it.

At Christmas every debtor receives one pound of beef, a pint of porter, and a loaf value three halfpence, or potatoes in lieu of it. On New Year’s day, at Easter, and some uncertain day after, the same gift is made by the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs, who also occasionally give coals according to their discretion. Michael Angelo Taylor, Esq. M. P. on Christmas-eve gives eight pounds of beef, a half-peck loaf, and a sack of coals, to each prisoner, and the same also to the turnkey. A society of gentlemen give quarterly a pound of beef and a two-penny loaf both to each prisoner, and to the out-door-stetvard (a person whose office it is to collect the

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 347

permanent donations; ) and one shilling for coals to dress the meat so given.

There are also certain established donations, of bread and meat, at stated periods, besides some private gifts. Money is likewise paid by several of the City Companies, and others, for the release of debtors from this and other prisons; which is most frequently applied towards the discharge of such prisoners as cannot obtain the same without undertaking to pay some further sum in addition to the money raised by such donations, and who are thereby prevented from availing themselves of the bounty of the Honourable and Benevolent Society for Relief of Debtors, held in Craven Street in the Strand; of which description are, the legacies of Mr. Humble, (paid by the Leathersellers’ Company, to the amount of eight pounds per annum), Mrs. Ashton, and others. The legacy of Lady Rich is usually applied in aid of the legacies of Mr. Humble, Mrs. Ashton, or any other benevolent donor, for the release of prisoners at one moiety by each legacy; and if the sum of twenty-four pounds has not been advanced for such release, before the payment of Lady Rich's legacy, then the remainder is divided among those prisoners, who were in gaol on the Christmas-day preceding, and still remain in custody.

* The Society for the Relief and Discharge of Persons confined for Small Debts admit of no such undertaking, but always Require 3 receipt in full from the creditor.

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

I4S

A List of Benefactions to Ludgate Prison, Christmas Quarter.

When paid.

Yearly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Quarterly -

Half-Yearly.

Yearly -

Ditto -

Half-Yearly. Ditto -

Ditto -

Quarterly -

Half-Yearly.

Yearly -

Quarterly -

Yearly -

Quarterly___

Ditto -

Yearly -

Ditto -

Quarterly. Yearly -

Donors’ Names.

Fishmongers Company Sir Thomas Kneesworth

Mrs. Lettiec Smith -

Sir Thos. Gresham, Knt.

Mr. Middleton -

Sir John Kendric k, Knt. Sir W. Peacock, Knt. ..

Mr. W. Parker -

Mr. John Wooler -

Lady Maurice and ?

(Mr. Bennett £

Mr. Peter Blundell -

Sir Win. Horne, Knt -

Mrs.Cook -

Mr. Peter Blundell -

Mr. James Hodgson -

Mr. NJeridith -

Mr. John Draper -

Mr. Thomas Dawson ..

Mrs. Holligrave -

Sadlers Company -

Irehbp. of Canterbury

By whom paid.

Fishmongers Company

Ditto -

Ditto -

Chamberlain of London

Ditto - .....

Drapers Company -

Haberdashers ditto -

Merchant Taylors Comp.

Ditto -

Armourers and Braziers Company £

Salters Company -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ironmongers ditto -

Churchwardens of St. Sepulchre’s Skinners Company - Ditto -

{ Churchwardens of >

/ St. Ethelburgh $ Clothworkers Company

Sadlers Company -

At Lambeth Palace.

Amount.

4 0 0 1 0 0

0 3 4

2 10 0 111 3

1 10 0

I 10 0 0 15 0 0 10 0

0 15 0

0 10 0 o 0 2

Lady-Day Quarter.

0 10 0 0 10 0

0 5 5

0 9 Cl

0

£.18 4 11

Yearly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Quarterly -

Yearly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Half-Yearly.

Yearly -

Half-Yearly.

Quarterly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Yearly -

Quarterly___

Sir Thomas Cullum, Knt. Mr. Aldernian Hoydon - Sir Roger Martin, Knt - Drapers Company Mercers Company Ditto

Sir Thos. Gresham, Knt. Mr. John Corbett Mr. Richard Jacob Mercers Company* Lady Ramsey Mrs. Joan Sanback C Lady Maurice and I John Bennett £ Mr. Peter Blundell Chamberlain of London Cooks Company Mrs.Starling Mercers Company Christ’s Hospital j Churchwardens of ? St. Bride’s £ { Armourers and Bra-{ ziers Company £ Ironmongers Company.

Sir John Peachey, Knt. Sadlers Company Grocers ditto Sadlers ditto

0 0 0 0 0 0 5 ft 10 0 10 0 12 0 7 I 5 0

1 0 0

0 15 0

0 0 0 0 0 0

10 0

10 0

5 O '

3 4

5 0

2 5

c£.2I 0 5

Being-the produce or interest of 45/. is. Id. Old South Sea Annuities.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

: , vj

Midsummer Quarter .

When paid. Donors’ Names. I’.y whom paid. Amount.

Quarterly Sir Thos. Gresham, Knl. Chamberlain of London 2 1U o

Ditto 111 3

II |l 0

U 10 u

0 ID D

Half-Yearly - Sir William Home, Ki it. Ditto 0 2 c

0 ID 0

Ditto 0 3 4.

Ditto Sadlers Company Sadlers ditto 0 _* o

, c. ~ 0 I

Michaelmas Quarter.

When paid. Donors’ Names. By whom paid. .-.X. Amount.

Quarterly Sir Thos. Gresham, Knt. Chamberlain of London 2 10 0

Half-Yearly - Lady Ramsey Christ's Hospital 1 .S ()

Yearly Mr.William Roaper Parish Clerks Company 1 0 0

Quarterly Mr. Peter Blundell Ironmongers Company.. 0 10 (»

0 10 0

Mr. Meridith 0 5 G

0 3 4

Yearly Mr. Thomas Chapman - Parish of St. Paneras o :> o

Quarterly Sadlers Company Sadlers Company 0 2 6

G II 4

Mr. Thomas Cottle, Tallow Chandler, gave yearly, for ever, a hind quarter of beef and a peck of oatmeal, rated at one pound, by the Churchwardens of St. Uunstau in the East, to be sent in on Michaelmas Eve.

Lady North gave yearly in bread thirteen pence every Friday for ever, out of the King’s Head Tavern, near Newgate; and twelve loaves every quarter. This is sent from the bakers, in threepenny loaves, every fortnight.

Mrs. Margaret Dane, widow, gave yearly, for ever, eighteen stone of beef and five dozen of bread, value one

pound,

§50 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

pound, by the Ironmongers’ Company to be paid at Allhallows-tide, Michaelmas quarter.

.Mr. Robert Rogers, Leatherseller, gave yearly by the Leathersellers Company, twedty shillings, to be paid quarterly in bread.

Mrs. Margaret Symcott, every eighth week for ever, by the Chamber of London, sixty-five penny loaves. This is Eleanor Gwynn's Gift, under that name.

Mrs. Frances Ashton, by will dated 30th March 1727, gav& ninety-five pounds per annum towards discharging out of prison such and so many of the poor prisoners in Ludgate, the two Compters, and the Marshalsea, whose respective sums, for and towards such discharges, shall not amount to two pounds each. In 1803 seven pounds were paid from this legacy to discharge four prisoners from the Poultry Compter. In 1805 two pounds eleven shillings and sixpence to discharge two prisoners from Giltspur-street Compter; also two pounds ten shillings to discharge one prisoner from Ludgate:and in 1807 two pounds two shillings to discharge another from Ludgate.

Mr. Richard Jacob, vintner, gave yearly for 257 years, by Joseph Howell and Susannah his wife, their heirs, executors, and assigns, out of five tenements situate in Lincoln’s-Inn-Fields, two pounds, payable at Easter. Will dated Oct. 13th, 1612. This is subject to land-tax. See the foregoing List of Benefactions in p. 348.

Mr. Thomas Stretchley, by his will dated August 6, 1678, gave for ever forty shillings, to be paid every three years, by the Treasurer of Christ’s Hospital. This is regularly paid. He likewise gave four pounds to discharge two prisoners every fifth year. This is not paid.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 351

The Chamber of London, in lieu of 250/. being the gift of Mr. Middleton, payable at Christmas and Midsummer, 3/. 2s. 6d. See List of Benefactions, pp. 3is, 349.

George Humble, Esq. gave yearly fourteen pounds per annum, for the release of two prisoners at five pounds each, and two others at forty shillings each; payable by the Leathersellers’ Company.

Lady Rich gave yearly, for ever, towards relief and release of prisoners thirty pounds, payable at Christmas; this is subject to land-tax, six pounds. If the money has not wholly or in part been appropriated to release prisoners, the remainder is divided among as many debtors as were in confinement at Christmas, and not discharged on Lady-day. Twenty-four pounds were divided the 6th April 1807 among ten prisoners, 21. 8*. each, who had remained in custody since the preceding Christmas; no person having, in the course of twelve months prior to the payment thereof, been released thereby. This legacy is paid on Lady-day old style, by Mr. John Roberts of Oakingham, Berks, attorney at law.

Mr. Robert Firebrace, Leatherseller, gave yearly by the Leathersellers’ Company 6s. 8d. to be paid quarterly in bread.

Elizabeth Misson gave by will dated 23d May, 1770, six pounds, the annual produce of two hundred pounds three per cent. India Annuities, to be expended in meat, bread, and coals. There has lately been some irregularity in the payment of this legacy.

Legacies not received.

Hugh Offley 5s. John Symonds 4s. Richard Jacob 40*. Lady Carezo 40s. John Jackson 20s. Sir Ralph Freeman 51. John Hobby, Esq. 22/. annually, for ever, for the release of eleven poor prisoners, at 40*. each.

The

52 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

The Rules and Orders for the government of tlii£ prison have been made by the several lord mayors and court of aldermen, and sometimes by the sheriffs for the time being, and the execution of them vested in the keeper and eight of the prisoners, under the title and description of “ the Court of Keeper, Steward, and Assistants who are thereby empowered to make such further orders as are necessary for the good governing and quiet behaviour of the prisoners:But such further orders dre never enforced, until they have first been approved by the lord mayor, Or court Of aldermen, or sheriffs, to whom an appeal lies against any improper decision of the court of steward and assistants. The principal Orders at present in force are—against profaners of the Sabbath, and neg-lecters of divine service: for chusing stewards, assistants, chapel-warden, reader, scavenger, and secretary; and to declare the duty of each; and for settling their several salaries: that is to say, Twenty-one pence weekly to the steward, whose business it is to keep good order, and be accountable fcrr what monies are received from casual benefactions, or otherwise; and to divide the same amongst the prisoners: Three pence weekly to

each of the assistants:Ten pence halfpenny per week to the secretary, for keeping the accounts; and one shilling and nine-pence per week to the scavenger, to keep clean the house, court-yard, &c. &c.;

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

but these salaries, and the quarterly and partial division of money, seem to militate against the benevolent intention of the donors, and prove a grievance to some of the poor prisoners, who are deprived of many of their benefits, if they fail in the payment of seven-pence per week. This might be remedied, by allowing a certain weekly sum, to the amount of, and to be repaid by, the annual amount of the donations, whereby the prisoners would be equally relieved, and animosities prevented from arising, in consequence of trivial benefits in favour of some, to the privation of their fellow sufferers. The remaining Orders are, to deprive offenders of their votes; against slandering, or using opprobrious words; against stealing; against cursing and swearing; against drunkenness; against singing and ranting; against abusing strangers; against retailing spirituous liquors; against keeping dogs; to enforce cleanliness, &c. &c.

The mode directed to enforce obedience to these Rules and Orders is by fines and privations: This,

in some cases, is peremptory; anti in others, is left to the discretion of the before-mentioned Court.

The accounts of Receipts and Disbursements of this prison are kept with great accuracy; and the order and decorum observed in it do much credit to Mr. Teague, the keeper.

354 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

LYNN REGIS; Norfolk. Town Gaol.

Gaoler, William Hawes.

Salary, 35l. for gaol, and house of correction, _ which adjoins.

Fees, 6s. 8d. Garnish, none.

Surgeon, Mr. Upwood, as surgeon for the poor, chosen annually.

Salary, 100l. for the Gaol and Poor of the parish.

Chaplain. None; but one attends occasionally.

Number of Debtors,

r 1802, Jan. 28th, I 1805, Aug. 30th,

O

O

1

Allowance. None; except to paupers, and that varies, according to the price of provisions. In August 1805 it was 8cl. a day.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is nearly opposite to St. Margaret’s church, and was built in 1784, as appears by the inscription in front. The ground floor is occupied by the keeper; and the Gaol is separated by two iron-grated doors, in a passage four feet wide. The Gaoler’s kitchen commands the only court-yard for all descriptions of prisoners, and is 82 feet by

15 *

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND W.\I.LS.

3jj

15. On the left hand is the on]y day-room in the prison, If) feet by 13, with a fire-place and stone sink. At the end of the court, and under arcado. are two sleeping-cells, about S feet square, with arched roofs, lighted and ventilated by two iron-grated windows each, with crib-bedsteads, straw-, and three, or four coverlets, as the weather requires. Poor debtors and petty offenders sleep in these cells; and, if they bring their own beds, pay (id. a week. At the end of the day-room a staircase leads to two infirmary-rooms, which have each afire-place and two glazed windows, crib-bedsteads, straw, and coverlets. On the attic story, and in front of the keeper’s house, are three good-sized rooms, about 16 feet by 11, and p feet high each, for Masters-side debtors; with glazed sash-windows, and fire-places in two of them. To these the Gaoler furnishes a single bed at 2s. per week; or, if two sleep together. Is. 3d. each.

Debtors from the Courts of Conscience are sent hither, and have the same allowance as other prisoners:But it decreases on a second commitment; and a watch-maker, who had been confined before, had only six-pence a day. Act and Clauses both hung up. Here is a pump of excellent spring-water; and soft-water is laid on by a pipe.

z *2

o5G

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

MACCLESFIELD; Cheshire.

The Town Gaol.

Gaoler, Maurice Jones. Salary, none *

Fees, 7$• 6d. No Table.

Garnish, 2s. 6d.

Number of Debtors,

1800, March 30th, - 1 1805, Sept. 15th, - 1

1802, Feb. 17th, - 1 1808, Jan: 6th, - - 3

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

This prison, for the liberty of the hundred, manor, and forest of Macclesfield, in the Pinfold, or pound of that hundred, is the property of the Earl of Derby, who holds a court twice in the year, viz. in April and October.

Debtors are committed hither for indefinite sums, from one shilling up to any amount: And, as they cannot obtain their sixpences, by virtue of the statute, called “ the Lords’ Act, ” before the holding of the Court next after their commitment, it may

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

"57

be their hard lot to be immured in this dreary abode for several months together, without a chance of speedier deliverance.

Here is a court-yard, or area, of 24 feet by 18. The prison consists of four rooms; two on the ground-floor, about 11 feet square; and two above, C feet square.

No bedding, not even straw is allowed. The keeper furnishes those prisoners who can pay, with a day-room, bed-chamber, and fire, at 3-v. Gd. each per iveek.

The Old Dungeon, which is seven steps down, in size 11 feet by 9, and lighted by a window only 6 inches square, was formerly used for the confinement of Deserters:But, at my visit in 1805, it was, happily, in a state of total ruin, and G inches deep in mud.

The Gaoler, who is a Bailiff or Sheriff’s Officer, keeps the Eagle and Child publick house (the Derby Anns), and pays twenty-six pounds annual rent, with all taxes. He told me that one Isaac JVyldc was confined here six months, for a debt of five shillings and three pence !

Of the three Debtors, (all women,) who have been here confined subsequent to the lat of October IS07, the names and circumstances are as follow.

1. Eliza-

35S

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

h s. d.

1. Elizabeth Gosling, widow, aged 48, a

washerwoman, who has two children under fourteen years of age. Her debt, for linen and cotton goods, was - - 1 10 G

Costs - - 9 3 3

Prison fees - i 15 0—10 18 3

T otal 12 8 9

Committed to Macclesfield Goal, 2d Oct. 1807.

2. Mary Marsland, Widow, aged 65, and in-

capable of gaining a livelihood. Her debt, for linen and cotton goods, - 0 7 0

Costs - - 9 15 11

Prison fees - l 15 0—11 10 11

Total 11 n 11

Committed to Macclesfield Gaol, 23d Dec. 1807.

3. Margaret Ashton, widow, aged 56, a cot-

ton-weaver. Debt, for hour, cheese, -

&nd butter, - 0 7 4

Costs - 9 15 11

Prison fees O 10 0—12 5 11

* Total 12 13 3

Committed to Macclesfield Caol, 21st Nov. 1307.

So that the three Debts together were 2 4 10 Costs, arid Prison Fees, ditto - - 34 14 1

Total, £. 36 IS 11.

These are facts verified, which need no comment.

How

In England, Scotland, and wales. 359

How desirable then must it be, in such very extreme cases of poverty and woe, —of female poverty and female woe, —if a more lenient execution of British Law could so operate, as to attach upon the goods only, not on the person of helpless, widowed debtors !

I should have mentioned that Elizabeth Goslings debt, l/. 10.y. 6d. was accepted from the Societ y for the Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts, and she was soon discharged, after presenting her petition at the office in Craven-Street. Mary Marsland and Margaret Ashton were ordered two shillings and sixpence each per week, for their support in prison, till the Committee should hold their next monthly meeting.

All these poor women had excellent characters given of them respectively; which renders the consideration of their distresses doubly painful.

Marsland has a son, who should have been her greatest helper,

“ To rock the Cradle of declining Age, ” but he enlisted for a soldier. Her goods have been seized and sold for rent; and having no allowance in gaol, misery must have sunk her there, hut for the incidental charity of some well-disposed persons

* See my remarks on Penzance Prison, in a following page; which is now humanely done away by I.ord Arundel, and the wretched place turned into an innocent inilk cellar.

(of

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS TOR DEBTORS

3 Go

(of whom one was a gentleman actually in the gaol as a fellow prisoner at the time); who felt for her accumulated trials.

From one of the Plaintiffs (a woman also) the Society received a letter; dated the 17th of March last, which is pointedly expressive. “ I could not, ” says the writer, ff make up my payments; there-((fore, was obliged to sue some, to make others pay ee me: but, Little, thought what the expence would cc he. I have since been told that Macclesfield f<r court are allowed very liberal fees. When I went :e to Macclesfield on Gosling's account, I saw this cc woman [Marsland], and was very much shocked e(at her appearance. The weather being extremely (c cold, and having little to eat, she had been very ec ill; but some of her neighbours had subscribed ee 8^. and sent her; and Mr. Jones, the gaoler, has of been very humane to her, in giving her a little

broth now and then; for there is no allowance, cc not even fire, nor so much as straw for a bed.”

Neither the Act for preserving Health, nor Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are hung up. The prison rooms dirt) ', and out of repair.

03^ There is every reason to hope, as it is sincerely to be wished, that a radical and very beneficial change will ere long take place in the Town Gaol of Macclesfield.

CO

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALI>\ 30’l

MAIDSTONE; Kent.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, Thomas Watson.

Salary, 300l.

Fees, 12s. lod. No Table.

Garnish, 2s. Sd.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Evans.

Duty. Prayers and Sermon to debtors and felons; and that on alternate Sundays only. Salary, 50l.

Surgeon, Mr. Coleman.

Salary, 50l. for Gaol and Bridewell, debtor^ and felons.

Number of Debtors,

1801, Sept. 22d, - 30 lSotf, Aug. 14th, - 26 04, Sept. 2Cth, - 23 lSor, Sept. Sth, - 2>J

Allowance. A half-quartern loaf every other day, jt and one quart of small-beer daily. What-

ever the baker’s bill amounts to weekly in bread, one half of that sum is allowed for table beer. But, when a debtor has obtained his sixpences, the allowance of bread ceases.

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

[62

REMARKS.

This Gaol was erected in 1746, as appears by the inscription on a stone in front, “ C. Sloane, architect.” The keeper's house separates the debtors’ prison from that of the felons; but he has no proper view of the prison at large. For men debtors here are two court-yards; the upper one, paved with flagstones, is 43 feet by 38'; the lower one, 96 feet by 48, with a hard gravel bottom:Also a common day-room, 26 feet by 19. The women debtors have no court-yard, and only one room, 13 feet by 10.

On the first floor are eight spacious rooms for debtors, opening into a lobby 6 feet 2 inches wide. Master’s-side debtors pay 1.5. 2d. per week; those who have a room to themselves 2s. 6d. per week; and there is one, handsomely furnished, for which a prisoner paid 5s. per week. For Common-side debtors here are two rooms, 26 feet by 19 each, called, by a singular fancy, fc the Pennyless wards," because each poor debtor who sleeps there pays one penny per week. The Infirmary has two rooms, one 20 feet by 18, the other 15 feet by 12, and very improperly situated, in the common felons'1 court-yard, in the centre of the prison. No bath, but an old useless tub. The prison-wall is three feet thick, with double wooden bars, three inches and a half broad (instead of single iron ones), at the windows both of debtors and felons, by which

the

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 3^3

the air and light are greatly obstructed. Prayers are read by the Chaplain, on the staircase, to the criminals, who are within the iron gate; but not one third of them can either sec the minister, or hear the divine service. Those under sentence of death are brought intoasmall opencourt, and the minister prays by them from the keepers parlour. Debtors have prayers read in a large room at the end of the lobby.

Six windows of the debtors’ rooms, and three of the felons’, are towards the street, and occasion many inconveniences to the neighbourhood. Here are no rules respecting the quantity of liquor which may be admitted to the debtors:indeed, rules would be almost useless, where the windows are so situated; and their irregularities frequently set the keeper at defiance, for want of knowing how to treat them.

The county allows three chaldrons of coals to the debtors yearly. No employment furnished; but those of handicraft-trades, such as shoe-makers, tailors, &c. sometimes procure work from the town. No Rules and Orders. No books for the Chaplain, Surgeon, or visiting Magistrates to enter their remarks. The keeper is humane and attentive, and the whole prison kept very clean.

364 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DERTOR3

MARSHALSEA, Southwark, London,

Sir James Bland Burgess, Kart. Knight-Marshal.

Salary, 500l.

Substitute, Mr. William Jenkins. Salary, 60I.

Fees: 10s. 10</. See the Table.

Garnish, Is. 4d:

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Trollope, who officiates by a deputy, the Rev. Mr. Webster.

Duty, every Sunday.

Salary, 50l. and Is. from every prisoner, on discharge. See Table.

Surgeons, Mess. Saumarez and Dixon.

Salary, One Shilling from each Prisoner, on discharge. See Table.

O

Number of Debtors,

1800, April 15th,

1801, Dec. 7th,

1802, Dec. 2d, -

1803, May 28th,

50

3G

34

4/

1804, Jan. 7th,

1805, Mar. 16th, 180(>, Mar. 28tlr^ 1807, July 2d,

50

39

50

57

REMARKS.

To this prison of the Court of the Marshalsea, and of the King’s Palace-Court of Westminster, are brought debtors, arrested for the lowest sums, any where within twelve miles of the Palace, except in the city of London.

King

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 3G5

King Charles I. in the sixth year of his reign, by his letters patent, erected a new court of record, called the Curia Palutii, or Palace-Court, to be held before the Steward of the Household and Knight Marshal, and the Steward of the Court, or his deputy; with jurisdiction to hold plea in all manner of personal actions whatsoever, which shall arise between any parties within twelve miles of ills Majesty’s palace at Whitehall.

The Court is now held once a week, together with the antient court of Marshalsea, in the Borough of Southwark: and a writ of error lies from thence to the court of King’s Bench. But, if the cause be of any considerable consequence, it is usually removed on its first commencement, together with the custody of the defendant, either into the King’s Bench or Common Pleas, by a writ of Habeas Corpus cum Causd. The inferior business of the Court also hath of late years been much reduced, by the new Courts of Conscience erected in the environs of London; in consideration of which, the four counsellors belonging to these courts had salaries granted to them for their lives, by the statute 23 Geo. II. cap. 27.

It is under the particular custody of the Substitute, who has his appointment from the Knight Marshal of the King’s Household for the time being.

3(>6 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

The great abuses practised by a predecessor of this officer were reported to parliament by the Gaol Committee ini729.

This prison is held, under lease, by Mr. Crack-low, a Surveyor. One half of it is already fallen down in ruins; and of the remainder it may be almost said, with our Poet, that

et The Castle topples o’er the Warder’s Head.”

The court-yard is spacious, and contains near fifty rooms, six of which only are for Common-side debtors *. There are two or three rooms for women; but as there is only one court-yard, men and women mix together in the day-time. No Infirmary. There is a Tap in the prison, which was let to William Matthews, a prisoner, at 406*. per iveek ! The Court is well supplied with water. The prisoners sometimes employ themselves in cutting pegs for the Brewers, and are paid 2s. the thousand.

* If more debtors are on the Common-side than six rooms will contain, at three in a room, other rooms are allowed from the Master’s side. No pirates have been committed to this prison since the year 17895 but several persons have bpen, and still are, committed in execution, under sentence of courts martial, to suffer imprisonment for a limited time: they are committed by the Lords of the Admiralty, pursuant to the sentence. Of this description I have found from Four to Eight at my several visits within the last seven years. The whole building is in a most ruinous and insecure state j and the habitations of the debtors are wretched in the extreme.

At

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 3^7

At my visit, 28th December 1802, I found the court-yard very scanty, a wall being built across the end of it, and twenty new rooms in the centre of the court, about 11 feet by 10, and 71 feet high, for the better accommodation of the prisoners to live in, and also to sleep in, if they can.

In 1/86 there was a delay in the distribution of the Oxford Charity. The Court of Chancery, on application made, gave its directions:the arrears were paid up; and I have heard of no complaint since.

The average number of prisoners, about thirty years ago, was 200, as appears by the books; but, since the act of the lf)th George III. cap. lxx. it has been reduced to 50.

The object of the Act for restraining arrests under 101, is “That no person shall be held to bail, or taken <c to prison in the first instance, unless his debt te amount to lOl.But, a creditor may still sue out a writ for any sum above 2/. prosecute bis action against his debtor to a judgment; and then take him in execution for debt and costs, be that sum under or above ten pounds.

It is not necessary, where there is a judgment obtained, that the sum should exceed 10/.If it were so, a person having 5/. or 61. due to him would be without a remedy.

If an action be originally brought in the Marshalsea Court, and removed to any other by the debtor,

(for

36’8 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS fOR DEBTORS

(for the creditor cannot remove it), the plaintiff must follow the removal, or lose his debt: and when the said creditor, or plaintiff, has obtained a judgment, the debtor cannot be imprisoned in the Marshalsea, but in the prison of the court where the judgment was obtained.

03" Mr. Henry Allnutt, who was many years since a prisoner here, had, during his confinement, a large estate bequeathed to him. He learned sympathy by his sufferings; and left One Hundred Pounds a year to discharge poor debtors from hence, the payment, or composition, of whose debts does not exceed 4/. As he bound his manor of Goring, in Oxfordshire, for charitable uses, this is called (C The (C Oxford Charity." The present Trustees are, Henry Harding, Esq. of Abingdon, and Mr. John Bowles.

List of Legacies to the prison of the Marshalsea and Palace Courts.

Per annum,

I. s. d.

1. The legacy of Henry Allnutt, Esq. for the

release of debtors, whose respective plaintiffs will accept of a small sum in full satisfaction for debt and costs - - 100 0 0

2. There is paid by the Treasurer of every

County-town and Place Corporate in England and Wales, the sum of 20s.

i'll

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 3fir)

Per annum.

X. s. (I.

on the first day of Trinity Term; which is advanced monthly, at 5l. per month:out of which lOs.per month is deducted by the receiver, as a remuneration for his trouble, - C5 0 0

3. The legacy of Frederick Ashfield, Esq. to provide 2 lbs of meat per week, for from ten to twenty prisoners, is paid by Mr. W. Railton, of Clifford’s Inn, 50 0 0

4. The legacy of Mrs. Frances Ashton, for the release of prisoners who are proper objects, is paid by Robert Long, Esq. of Symond’s Inn, Chancery-lane, in such proportions as the Trustees think proper. N.B. The last payment I have any account of, was on the Sth July 1803, when two guineas were received for the discharge of Jeremiah Freer.

5. The legacy of Dr. John Felling, for the like purpose, paid by Messrs, lloare. Fleet-street, - - 9 0 0

6. The legacy of Sir Thomas Gresham, paid quarterly, by the Chamberlain of London, at per quarter, 2/. 10v. - 10 0 0

7. The legacy of Mrs. Margaret Sj/mcott, paid by the Chamberlain of London, is 65 penny loaves every eight weeks,

(Eleanor Gwynn’s gift).

8. The legacy of Mr. Jacob, left in 1609, is

paid yearly, by the proprietors of the Grainge Inn, Carey-strcct, at Easter, 200 A a 9. The

370 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Per annum.

£. s. d.

9. The legacy of Mr. John Marks is, per

aim. \l. and the interest of 21/. 1 Ss. 10d.

S. S. Stock, paid by the Company of

Mercers, ---- 1 13 1

10. The quantity of bread and money sent by

the Company of Leathersellers, is, at

the rate of 6s. Sd. quarterl} *, I 6 8

11. The legacy of Robert Rampston, Esq. paid

at Christmas, - 1 0 0

12. The gift of IV. Roper, Esq. paid by the

Company of Parish Clerks, yearly, 1 0 0

13. The legacy of Mr. John Craythome, by

the Company of Cutlers, at Christmas, 0 15 0

14. The legacy of Mr. T. Dawson, paid by

the Churchwardens of St. Ethelburgh,

Bishopsgate, - 0 9 0

15. The legacies of Mrs. Lettice Smith and

Mr. Arthur Moses, by the Company of

Fishmongers, - 0 6 8

1 o. The Company of Salters send annually - 0 0 8

1 7. The gift of Mr. Thomas Carter., paid by the Churchwardens of St. Dunstan in the East, at Lady-day, yearly, is a quarter of beef and a 'peck of oatmeal. i 8. The gift of tlfc late Mr. Baron Smythc, was 15 stone of beef, yearly, at Christmas. N.B. This was regularly sent for some time by his Lady, but it seems now to be discontinued, none having been received these eight years.

19. The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

371

Per annum,

19. The Company of Drapers send yearly 60

three-penny loaves. (Legacy of Mr.

John Stokes.)

20. The legacy of Mr. Ralph Carter, is a quan-

tity of beef, at Christmas, paid one year by the Churchwardens of Allhallows, and the next by those of St. Andrew Undershaft.

1801, 80 lb. 1804, 46* lb.

1802, 84 lb. 1805, 102 lb.

1803, 90 lb. 1806, 72 lb.

21. The Company of Ironmongers send yearly,

on the 15th November, a quantity of beef and bread.

Beef. Bread.

1801, 18 lb. 14 2d. loaves.

1802, ditto. ditto.

1803, 17 lb. ditto.

Beef. Bread.

1804, 14|lb. 13 2d. loaves *

1805, 21 stone. 17 ditto.

1806, 2st. lib. II ditto.

THE following Voluntary Donations are generally paid yearly:

Her late Royal Highness the Duchess of Gloucester used to send at Christmas, yearly, two chaldrons of Coals.

His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, -10 0

The Lord Steward of his Majesty’s Household,

per annum, - -550

The Steward, Deputy Prothonotary, Council,

and Attornies of his Majesty’s Palace Court, 5 3 6

Henry Thornton, Esq. M. P. for the Borough

of Southwark, - - - 550

Taele

A A 2

ACCOUNT 01 PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

372

Table of Fees to be taken at the Marshalsea Prison, on any Civil Action. Settled 17th May, 176.5.

£. s. d.

To the Knight-Marshal, upon the discharge of

every prisoner charged with one or more actions, 0 18

To the Keeper, for his care and safe custody of every prisoner, upon the discharge of such prisoner, on the first action, - - 0 4 8

To the Keeper, upon the discharge of such prisoner charged with one or more actions after the first, - - 038

To the Surgeon, or Apothecary, on discharge of

every prisoner charged with one or more actions, 0 10

To the Chaplain, on the like discharge, 0 1 0

To the Turnkey, upon the discharge of every

prisoner, on the first action, - 0 1 6

To the Turnkey, upon the discharge of every ' prisoner charged with one or more actions after

the first, - - 010

To the Clerk, for entering the discharge of a prisoner, on one or more actions, - - 010

To the Keeper, for the use of a lied, bedding, and sheets, for every prisoner, if found by the Gaoler at the prisoner’s request, for the first night, on the Master’s side of the said prison, 0 0 6

And every night after the first night, - 0 0 3

And if two lie in a bed, 2d. each, - - 0 0 4

No other fee for the use of chamber, bed, bedding, or upon the discharge or commitment of any prisoner on any Civil Action.

W. Richardson. Elliot Bisiioi*.

J .EONARD HOWARD

Mansfield. C. Pratt. T, Parker.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

O - IJ 0/0

MONMOUTH, County Gaol.

Gaoler, Thomas Phillips; (now his widow.) Salary, 10 5/.

Fees, none; but the Under-Sheriff demands 10s.6d. for 11 is liberate!

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. John Powell.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Wednesday, and Prayers on Sunday. Salary, 30l.

Surgeon, Mr. William Powell. Salary, 201.

Number of Debtors,

1801, Nov. 1 lth, - 7 1805, Sept. 5th, - 1

1802, Nov. 15th, - 3 lSo6‘, Sept, lith, - 3

Allowance. To debtors, who are paupers, one pound and half of bread per day, and one penny per day in money:the bread is sent in from the baker’s in loaves of 3 lbs.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, which is also the County Bridewell, has much the appearance of a castle. It is situated / on a fine eminence:the boundary wall incloses about an acre of ground, given by the Duke of Beaufort. The outer gate has, on one side, the Turnkey’s Lodge, and a small room. On the other side are the wash-house and oven, and cistern for

3/4 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

soft water; and upstairs a sleeping room for the Turnkey. Over these is a flat rcof, where criminals are executed. The Gaol is in the centre of the area^ and the Keeper's court-yard and house front the Turnkey’s lodge. On the ground-floor are the Visiting Magistrates’ room, two rooms for the

O o J

Keeper, and twelve sleeping-cells, 8 feetg inches by 6’ feet, with glazed windows; five of which are for Common-side debtors, to whom the County allows a wooden bedstead, a straw in sacking bed, a pair of sheets, a blanket, and a rug; and in the winter an additional blanket or ru<*\ Five other cells are for

O

solitary confinement, and two, totally dark, for the refractory. The Master's-side Debtors have A courtyard, 57 feet by 45; a day-room 28 feet by ig; and above, a sleeping-room of the same size; to which if the debtor brings his own bed, he pays one shilling per week, or else the Keeper furnishes the beds at 2s. 6d. per week each, for two sleeping together. If any debtor has a bed in the Keeper's house, he pays 5s. per week.

Mr. James Gabriel, of this town, who died March 2f>, 1754 (mt. 75.) had been very kind to the prisoners in his life-time; and at his death he left them 100/. which is invested in the turnpike-security, from which each prisoner receives every quarter-day a six-penny loaf. A memorial of this legacy is fixed up in St. Mary's church.

In

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

375

In the centre of the building is the Chapel; to which the prisoners enter, from their respective divisions, to the seats appropriated for them; and all are required to attend divine service.

The attic story has two good-sized infirmaries, one for men, the other for women:and there are four circular rooms on the top, one in each tower, 12 feet diameter, and 7 feet high, totally dark, with straw on the floor, for refractory prisoners. The space between the court-yards and boundary-wall is from 15 to 30 feet, and affords the Keeper a convenient garden. Rules and Orders printed, but not stuck up. The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, not hung up.

Prayer-books are supplied to those who can read; and the Magistrates now visit frequently, as appears by their entries in the book. The Gaol very clean. I weighed the bread, and found every loaf full weight. The County allows firing to all parts of the prison, when used with discretion.

At my visit in 1805, I found the Gaoler was dead, and that the magistrates continued his widow in that situation; with an assistant, at 50/. per annum, and likewise allowed ()s. a week to a Turnkey, to which Mrs. Phillips has added 3s, per week.

MONMOUTH, Town Gaol No debtors are confined here now.

37 G ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

MONTGOMERY.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Davies. Salary, 35l.

Fees, S, y. 4d.; besides which the Under-sheriff demands Js. Cal. for his liberate !

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Charles Id I Ha ms. Salary, 20l.

Duty, every Sunday, Prayers and Sermon.

Surgeon, Mr. Jones, for felons only. Salary, Si.

plSOO, April 5th, - - 5

Number of Debtors, < 1802, Jan. 30th, - - 6

I1803, Sept. 8th, - - 3

Allowance. Sixpence per day in bread.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is finely situated on a rising ground. One court-yard for men anti women debtors, 44 feet by 32, with a sewer in it. A day-room 14 feet square, and a small room adjoining, with a bath, and a boiler. Upstairs are eight good-sized rooms for debtors, three of which are free wards. The County allows no bedding, but straw on the floor:the keeper furnishes beds at 1.9. Gd. per week a single bed, and 2s. per week, if two sleep together. A large room over the entrance-door of the prison is used as a chapel, and a small room is set apart for the sick. The well was out of repair, and no water. The Rev. Thomas Powell left by will the interest of 20 /. to belaid out m coals for the use of the prisoners,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 377

MORPETH; Northumberland.

Gaoler, John Blake. Salary, 80l.

Fees, 12s. Gd. (No Table.) Besides which the Under-sheriff demands a fee of 2s. Gd. for each liberate; and if upon a supersedeas, Gs. Sd.

Garnish. A gallon of ale on coming in, and another on discharge out of prison !

Chaplain, Rev. Edward Nicholson. Salary, 401.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon, Sunday afternoon.

Surgeon, Mr. Douglas Sands; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors,

1801, Feb. 1st, - 8.

1802, Sept. 9th, - 11.

Allowance. Four-pence per day to poor debtors, on petition to the Magistrates.

REMARKS.

On the left entrance is the debtors’ day-room, 23 feet by 19, and 12 feet high. This is also the chapel. In the centre of the building is a small court, about 25 feet square, with a pump in it, principally used for the debtors to wash themselves:It is likewise a passage to the keeper’s large garden, of which debtors have the daily use;

In

3/S ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

In this court are five sleeping-cells, two below, (not used on account of their dampness,) and three above, each 9 feet by 6 feet / inches, with arched roofs.

The middle tower, over the dungeon, is about 23 feet square, and occasionally used by debtors and felons, but not at the same time. It has a fire-place in it and a sewer. The two windows are glazed and iron-grated, 3 feet 7 by 3 feet each, with an aperture in the door about 8 inches square.

On the debtors’ side of the prison, there is on the first floor one room for women, about 14 feet square, and another, lSfeet by 15. The second story has five rooms, to which the keeper furnishes beds from two shillings to one shilling per week. The upper story has two rooms, the largest of which, 18 feet square, is used as a ffee-ward, whenever the middle tower is occupied by felons. The other room, used as an infirmary, is 14 feetby 10, having a large closet, well lighted and ventilated. Water, accessible to debtors at all times, is carried to the felons. It was intended to present the want of a proper infirmary, bath, and oven, at the General (Quarter-Sessions. I found the prison kept as clean as the bad construction of it would admit.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 379

MUSSELBURGH; Scotland,

Gaoler, TVm. Robertson; keeps a public house.

Salary, 5s. per week from the town.

Fees, 4d. per night. No table.

Surgeon, from the town, when wanted.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Sept. 17th, none.

Criminal, ---- one.

Allowance. To Criminals, Gd. a day. Debtors from (jd. to ISd. a day, according to their rank in life.

Remarks. This prison is over the guard-house, and has, on the first floor, a large room for debtors, with two iron-barred windows towards the street: at the end is a room for criminals, about 9 feet by 6, with straw on the floor, and lighted by a pane of glass in the roof. Over these a room the length of the building; the boarded floor very rotten and unsafe: it has four iron-grated windows, and an offensive sewer. No court-yard. No water. Very dirty; never whitewashed. Act and Clauses not hung up. Over the door of the Magistrates’ room is this inscription:

“Magistrates! do justice, in the fear of God,

((He that God doth fear

ce Will not to falsehood lend an ear.”

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

380

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE; Northumberland.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Gale. lie is a tallow-chandler, and lives near the prison. Salary, 100l.

Fees, debtors, 14s. 4d. of which l£. is to the Turnkey; besides which the Under-sheriff demands 2s. 6d. on discharge of a writ front the Court of Kings Bench or Common Pleas; and 5s. on a supersedeas ! No Table.

Garnish, abolished. See Remarks.

Chaplains. The Rev. Mr. Moiser, and The Rev. Mr. Perkins.

Duty. On Wednesday and Friday, Prayers; and once a month a Sermon. The chaplains officiate alternately a month each.

Salary, 10l. the Corporation, and 10/. Sir Walter Placket.

Surgeon, Mr. William Fife. Salary, nc/ne:he makes a bill, which is allowed by the Magistrates in Sessions.

Number of Debtors, Sept. Gth, 1802, - 12

Allowance; 2d. a day, on petition to the mayor.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 381

REMARKS.

This prison is the Gate at the upper end of the town, and was formerly a fortified gateway. Here is no court-yard; but one might be made of the vacant ground West oh the Gaol, at a little expence, as the town wall is on one side of it #.

The left side of the gateway is the gaol for debtors; on the staircase leading to whose apartments is the following inscription, framed and glazed. “Friends “ visiting the debtors in this prison are to take notice, “ that the following are the hours of admission, which “ cannot be departed from, except on very particular u occasions. From eight to nine in the morning:tc from twelve to one at noon: from four to five in the “ evening. Those who neglect to come out at the ap-“ pointed hour, must remain till the next opening.”

Debtors, having no court-yard, walk on the battlement above the gaol, which is nearly 34 feet square, with a flagged floor, and a sewer in one corner; and also on the flat leads, about 40 feet square: To these two places they have access at all times, from morning till ni^ht. Here is no distinction of debtors. The Corporation allows an iron bedstead, a bed-ticking filled with new chaff every three months, one under *

* It is in contemplation to build six new rooms, and van Infirmary, at the West end of the prison; and to enclose the vacant groundfora debtors’ court, which will be a great improvement.

-blanket,

382 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

blanket, two upper blankets, and two coverlets, scoured every three months, to debtors, felons, and all descriptions of prisoners. Here are eight lodging-rooms for debtors; and every one sleeps single, if the prison will admit it. They succeed to the best rooms by seniority of confinement, and every one is required toattend divide service, except prevented by illness, or professing himself to be of a different persuasion. All prisoners are allowed as much firing as they can consume without waste; and mops, brooms, pails, &c. to keep the gaol clean. Any one who misbehaves is tried by a prison-court, (at which the senior debtor presides,) and fined, according to rules laid down for preserving good behaviour in the gaol. All communication with him is interdicted till the fine is paid. If he conceives himself hardly judged, he applies to the keeper, who examines into the matter, and settles it accordingly. The above relates solely to petty offences committed against the peace of the prison.

This is one of the very few gaols, that have what are called in London “ the RULES.” They extend South of the prison to a running water, arched over, called Execution Dock, and on the East of the Prison down High Fryer-street about 200 yards, to a rivulet called Lork Burn, now arched over with stone. As the keeper cannot find by what authority these Rules were granted, no debtors are indulged in the

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 3S3

use of them, but those of good character who are confined for small sums.

The debtors’ day-room (in which divine service is performed) is 2J feet by 21; and here, conspicuously painted on a board, the following notice is hung up. “ BE it understood, that no debtor, on his entrance into, or departure from this prison, is liable to the payment of any sum of money for the purchase of beer, heretofore exacted under the title of Garnish. No money, under any pretence whatever, can be levied on the relations and friends of debtors visiting them in this prison.”

Every debtor committed by process issuing out of the mayor’s or sheriff’s court, for a debt exceeding 101, is entitled to his sixpences in about six months; but, as he must employ an attorney of the court, whose charge is four guineas, they are seldom obtained. It is a pity that, in so respectable and opulent a town, there is not a fund established for that purpose, as at Winchester, Gloucester, &c. &c. If the debt be under lol. by serving the plaintiff with 14 days notice, he is entitled to his sixpences the first sheriff s court, which is held twice a week. Debtors are sent here from the Court of Conscience. Act and Clauses hung up. The whole prison very clean:

NEW GAOL, See SURRY COUNTY GAOL,

0S4 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

NEWGATE, London.

Gaoler, John-Addison Newman.

Salary, 45 ol.

Fees; Debtors, see Table.

Garnish. On the cabin-side, a subscription of one guinea for coals, candles, mops, brooms, &c. at entrance; and a gallon of ale on quitting the prison. On the master's-side, a subscription of thirteen shillings and four pence for coals, &c. and a gallon of beer at entrance. On the common-side, a subscription of eight shillings and ten pence for coals, &c. and a gallon of beer. Those who from their poverty cannot pay this last mentioned sum, are to wash and clean the wards:

The Stewards of the wards have each a double allowance of bread.

In a room, formerly the tap, Anne Sell (a free vintner) supplies the criminal prisoners with wine, and serves out the beer which is sent to the prison from the publicans, and for which she is allowed two pence per gallon.

Chaplain (or Ordinary), Rev. Dr. Forde.

Salary, l200l. and a house adjoining to the gaol; 07. per annum from Lady Barnard is-tons legacy; and 10/. a year from an old

legacy

rrm n

CiKOt'NI) I' LAN OFNBWUATB.

o

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 38$

legacy paid by the Governors of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; over and above which, sundry sums have been presented to the Ordinary by the Court of Aldermen.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Sunday morning, and Prayers in the afternoon; also Prayers every Wednesday and Friday morning; and private Prayers, on Tuesday and Saturday, to those under sentence of death. After the Report, he attends each condemned Convict twice a day, and on the morning of execution; as does a Catholic priest also those who are of the Romish church.

Surgeon, Mr. William Box, jun. who visits the prison daily.

Salary, 100l. and medicines, paid for by the City, for debtors as well as criminals. There is no Surgeon’s book kept in Newgate:But I am informed he makes a regular return to the Court of Aldermen; and also another return to the Justiciary Court every day, during the Sessions at the Old Bailey, of the prisoners’ state of health.

Number of Debtors,

1800, June 14th, - 199 IS 04, Feb. 10th, - 204

1801, April 27th, - 275 1805, April 22d, - 149

1802, April - 221 1806, May 24th, - 198

1803, July 2d, - - 191 *v 0 00 March ldth, 175.

B B There

386' ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

There were in Newgate, at the time of passing the Insolvent Bill,

Debtors. Discharged. Left.

1704, - 20, 9 78 - 131

17 97, - 182 45 137

1801, 273 143 130

1803 *, - 180 42 138

1806 *, - 1S4 63 121

Allowance. To every debtor fourteen ounces of

the best wheaten bread daily. The debtors on the poor and iromen's side have eight stone of beef divided weekly among them, without bone, such as clods and stickings, which is paid for by the Sheriff's.

There are also sundry donations to the poor men and women debtors, paid at different times, some of which are regularly paid, and others discontinued. See the following List.

* In four months after the discharge by the Act in 1804, I found 145 debtors in prison j and during the same period, after lire Act in 1806, 171.

* +* Through the exertions of the attentive Keeper a very excellent arrangement has now (1807) taken place in the distribution of the Prison-Charities; by which every prisoner is equally benefited, and the money arising therefrom laid out in necessaries for their use, instead of the quarterly distribution (as formerly) in money; which was too frequently spent in liquor by those prisoners only, who happened to be detained at the time the said charities became payable.

A List

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 33

•A List of Donations to the Poor Debtors

CONFINED IN NEWGATE.

Lady-Day Quarter *

When paid.

Donors’ Names.

By whom paid.

Amount.

Quarterly___

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Half-Yearly.

Ditto -

Yearly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Half-Yearly.

Quarterly - ,

Ditto -

Ditto -

End of Term.

Mr. Rogers -

Mr. John Meridith -

Mr. John Draper -

Sir Thos. Gresham, Knt, Lady Ramsay -

Lady Maurice -

Aid. Sir John Heydon - Sir Roger Martin, Knt..

South Sea Annuity -

Mr. John March -

M r. John Wooller -

Mr. Peter Blundell -

Mr. Peter 'Blundell - '..

Sadlers Company -

Barons of Exchequer - ,

Leathersellers Company

Skinners ditto -

Ditto -

Chamberlain of London

Christ’s Hospital..

Armourers and Bra ziers Company

Mercer's Company -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

MerehantTaylors Comp.

Ditto -

Haberdashers ditto -

Sadlers Company -

Exchequer Office, Temp.

* 0 0 0

2 10 0

1 5 0

f 0 15 0

5 0 0

2 0 0

10 2 10 0 10 0 10 0 10 0 2 G 6 8

oF.16 2 2

Midsummer Quarter.

When paid. Donors’ Names. By whom paid. Amount.

Quarterly Mr. Rogers Leathersellers Company X 0 4 0 0 5 6

0 3 4

Ditto - Sir Thos. Gresham, Knt. Chamberlain of London 2 10 0

Ditto Mr. Peter Blundell Merchant TaylorsComp. 0 10 0 0 10 0 0 2 6 0 13 4

Two Terms Barons of the Exchequer Exchequer Office, Temp.

of. 4 18 8

* And eight dozen of Bread. f And five dozen of Bread.

X And eight dozen of Bread.

B B 2

MiCIIAEL.Ma;

; S8 ACCOUNT OF PRISON:? FOR DEBTORS

Michaelmas Quarter.

When paid.

Donors’ Names.

By whom paid.

Amount.

Quarterly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Half-Yearly,

Ditto -

Ditto -

Quarterly.

Ditto -

Ditto -

Mr. Rogers -

Mr. John Draper -

Mr. John Meridith -

Sir Thos. Gresham, Knt Lady Ramsay -

Lady Maurice -

Mr. JolmWooller -

Mr. Peter Blundell -

Ditto -

Sadlers Company -

Leathersellers Company

Salters ditto -

Ditto -

Chamberlain of London

Christ's Hospital -

t Annonrersund Bra-l ziers Company Merchant TaylorsComp.

=t= 0 4 0

0 3 4

0 3 (3

2 10 0

1 5 0

f 0 15 0

0 10 0

When paid. Donors’ Names.

Yearly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

End of Term.

Yearly -

Quarterly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Yearly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

• Quarterly -

Ditto -

Yearly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Quarterly -

Comp, of Parish Clerk-ReoeiverGcn. of Ld. Tun

Mr. John Kendrick -

Barons of the Exchctpiet

Mr. Rogers -

Mr. John Meridith -

Mr. John Draper -

Sir Thos. Gresham, Knt. Fishmong. Extra Bounty Mr. Thomas Kneesworth Mrs. Lctitia Smith.

Sir Samuel Peacock.

Mr. Peter Blundell .

I )itto -

Mr. Win. Parker - Mrs. Marg. Crawthorn - Mrs. Marg. Hargrave. Archbp. of Canterbury Mr. John Gerard.

Sir Wm. 1 lorne.

•ir Jolm Peachey.

Mr. Thomas Dawson -

Sir Richard Ramsay Sadlers Company____

lial>i*rclaslu»rs Company 0 0 10 o 0 6

£.6 15 4

Quarter.

By whom paid. Amount.

Brought to Prison Nov. 1. 1 1 0

Auditor’s Office, I’ai.Ya. 2 3 4

Drapers Company 2 0 0

Exchequer Office, Temp. 0 6 8

: o 14 0

Skinners ditto 0 5 0

Ditto 0 3 4

Chamberlain of London 2 10 0

Fishmongers Company.. 4 0 0

1 fit to i 0 0

0 1

Haberdashers Company 10 0

0 10 0

Merchant Taylors ditto. 0 10 0

Ditto 2 0 0

Cutlers ditto 0 15 0

Cloth workers Company 0 5 0

At 1 ambeth Palace 1 0 0

Salters’ Company 0 6 2

Ditto 0 5 0

Grovers ditto 0 5 0

\ Churchwardens ol / St. Kthelhurgh \ 0 9 0

31 .Orchard Str. Port. Sq I 0 0

Sadlers Company 0 o 6

£.‘23 14 10

* And eight dozen of Brt ad. 1 And eight do/.cn ol Bread.

f And five dozen of Bread.

Pro

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 38$

Provisions, with additional Donations, and to what purpose they are applied.

Mrs. Margaret Dean, from the Ironmongers’ Company, 18 stone, 6 lb. of beef, and five dozen penny loaves, sent for to the Hall on the 5th of November.

The parish of St. Dunstan in the East, 20 stone of beef and a peck of oatmeal, sent to the prison on Christmas Eve by the Churchwardens.

Allhallows, Lombard-street, 17s. laid out in beef every two years. Brought to prison.

St. Andrew Undershaft, 17.?. laid out in beef every two years. Brought to prison.

St. Ethelburga, 9?. laid out in beef every two years. Brought to prison.

Mrs. Margaret Simcott, (Eleanor Gwyn) 65 penny loaves, to be delivered ever}’ 56 days. Brought to prison.

Mr. Samback, 11, at Lady-day, provided none can be discharged at Ludgate for 4/. (l/. paid by the Churchwardens of St. Bride’s.)

Mr. Thomas Stretchly, 21, every third year, paid by Christ’s Hospital.

Mrs. Fisher, executrix of Mrs. Eliz, Misson, 6l. yearly, in February, being the produce of 2001, now 3 per Cent. Consols. Will, dated 23d May, 1770, proved at London 9th March, 1774. This legacy is very irregularly paid.

The following Donations are painted on the board, but not received,

Mr. Firebrace, 6s. 8d. at Christmas. (See Leathersellers’ Company.)

Leathersellers’ Company, 4s.

Mi\

390 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Mr. Knobham, at Bull and Butcher, Smithfield, 4/. 10 yearly, at Christmas.

Mr.Thomas Stretch))’, 2l. every five years, at Christm.O.S. Black Boy, St. John Street, 16/. yearly, paid by the tenant, George Howland, in 1758, but not since.

Mr. Carter, 12s. 6d. every 2 )'ears, at Christmas, not paid.

The Debtors are also especially relievedJby the humanity of the Society, held at No. 7, Craven Street, in the Strand, who monthly vote large sums of money towards procuring their discharge, and paying their fees. Money is likewise paid for the same purpose by some of the Citij Companies, by a Society at Mile End, and, for unfortunate inhabitants of Christ-Church parish, by the Common CounciLmen there.

Twice in a year the Pebtors have also a share of One hundred pounds laid out, first by the Lord Mayor, and secondly by the Sheriffs, in provisions and coals; and distributed to all the prisoners in Newgate, Ludgate, and the two Compters, according to the number of persons in each of those prisons.

Broken victuals are sent by the masters of the London Coffee-house, and by Mr. Alderman Birch, in Cornhill; of which the more distressed debtors sometimes partake. The masters of the City of London Tavern also give broken victuals to the debtors, who have lately appointed a person to collect the daily.

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 391

The following document is a List of what are called Court of Conscience Debtors; of the times of their commitment to Newgate; and of the charges accumulated for costs upon very inconsiderable demands. Reverence for existing laws precludes from saying more than,

----“Pity it is, ’tis true !”

Date of Warrants. Defendants’ Names. Debts. Costs.

1797.

February 7 John Allen s. 3 d. 5 s. a d. 8

May 11 William Gough 3 10 8 10

October 15 Thomas Blackburn 2 Of 6 10

Ditto 1 5 6 10

December 14XXAnn Jones 2 3 3 10

1798.

April 12 Charles Burnet 3 10 8 10

September 20 Thomas Blackburn 2 6 8 10

November 9 Elizabeth Irvine 3 9 8 8

1799.

August 15 Caleb Only 3 9 8 10

22 Thomas Dobson 1 0 8 10

September 1 John Hyder 3 10 8 8

October l Susannah Evans 2 2 6 8

17 William Owen 3 0 ' 8 8

1800. March 13 Abraham Slater 3 4 6 10

July 24 John Jones 3 0 6 10

m

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

REMARKS.

Newgate, formerly one of the gates of the city of London, was first erected in the reign of Henry the First, or of King Stephen, for the conveniency of such as had occasion to pass from the North-East part of the city to Ho Horn, the passage being much obstructed by the enclosing of ground for the building of St. Paul’s cathedral, so that the way became very circuitous and dangerous from thence through Ludgate, which had theretofore been the usual thoroughfare.

This New Gate, having for upwards of fioo years been used as a prison for felons and other offenders, was, about 38 years ago, pulled down, and the present gaol erected; which having been destroyed by the rioters in l/So, has since been rebuilt, and appropriated (as before) for the reception of persons charged with offences committed in London and Middlesex; and also for the reception of all manner of persons committed by either House of Parliament, by the Secretary of State, by the Court of King’s Bench, or either of the Judges thereof; by his Majesty’s Judges of Assize; by the several Courts of Sessions; by the several Commissioners of Bankrupts, Customs, Excise, &c. and by the Magistrates in and for the City of London and County of Middlesex; as also of Debtors arrested by the Sheriff of Middlesex; —no London

debtor

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. SD3

debtor being brought there without being also charged with an offence cognizable by some Court or Magistrate having criminal jurisdiction, or unless sent by the Sheriffs of London from the Compter, or Ludgate, by Duel facias.

The Mayor and Commonalty of London, or their deputies, may also arrest and take felons, thieves, &c. who are found in the Borough of Southwark, and commit them to Newgate.

The prison is divided into eight separate and distinct Yards; of which two, on the North-West angle, are appropriated for debtors:viz.

No. 1. The men’s yard, 49 feet long by about 31 feet wide, leading to three wards, called the Cabin-side; each ward being 37 feet long by 14i wide, and having four cabins in each, of about seven feet and an half square, and capable of containing twenty-four persons within the three wards, reckoning two to each cabin; also leading to two other wards, called the Masters Side, being each 23 feet long by \4j wide, capable of containing about twenty persons; and to a day-room of the same dimensions, fitted up with benches and settles, after the manner of a tap-room in a public-house; and also leading to eight other wards, called the Common Side, one of which is 3d feet; six others about 23 feet; and the other eighteen feet in length: all of these are about 15 feet wide, and together capable of containing about 90 persons.

No. 2.

394 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

No. 2. The women debtors court-yard, about49 feet long by id feet wide, leads to two wards, one of which is 36 feet long by 15 feet wide, and the other 18 feet long by 1 wide:and these calculated to contain about 22 persons. All the before-mentioned wards are about 11 feet high. These yards are separated from each other by a stone wall, 15 feet high,

. and both well supplied with water. The debtors all find their own beds and bedding; but the poor, as well debtors as criminals, are sometimes supplied with rugs by the City.

The greatest number of debtors ever confined here at one time, has been 285 men and 40 women. But, astonishing as it may appear, I have been informed there have been near , 900 criminals, making altogether upwards of 1200 prisoners.

An excellent opportunity iocis afforded to the City, of building a detached prison for Debtors on the site where Surgeon’s Hall stood. Indeed, unless the debtors be removed, to give room for the separation of criminal prisoners, I fear it will be very difficult to restrain that licentious intercourse, which every where presents itself, and which the utmost vigilance of the

* Newgate will conveniently accommodate 94 men and 16 women debtors, and 300 men criminalsand 80 women, making a total of 49a persons. The gaol is capable of containing about 750 persons in the whole, allowing a space of 7 feet 6 inches by 3 feet for every criminal, and rather more (according to the size and shape of the room), for every debtor.

worthy

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 395

worthy keeper cannot prevent; whilst an audacious spirit of profaneness and vice will continue to prevail in the lower classes of the people.

A Table of Fees, to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of the prison of Newgate, within the City of London, for any prisoner or prisoners committed or coming into Gaol, or Chamber-rent-there, or discharge from thence, in any Civil Action. Settled and established the 19th of December, in the 3d George II. A.D. 1729, pursuant to an Act of Parliament lately made, intituled, “ An Act for the Relief of Debtors, with respect to the Imprisonment of their Persons.”

5. d.

Every prisoner cn the Master's Side shall pay

to the Keeper for his entrance-fee, - 0 3 0

Every prisoner on the Master’s Side shall pay for chamber-room, use of bed, bedding, and sheets, to the keeper, there being two in a bed, and no more, each per week - 0 13

Every prisoner on the said Master’s Side, who, at his own desire, shall have a bed to himself, shall pay to the keeper for chamber-room, use of bed, bedding, and sheets, per week - - 0 2 6

Every debtor shall pay to the keeper, for his

discharging-fee - - - 0610

And to all the Turnkeys 2s. and no mere - 0 2 0

No

3J)6 account of prisons for debtors

No other fee for the use of chamber, bed, bedding, or sheets, or upon the commitment or discharge of any prisoner on any Civil Action.

Edw. Becher. Bob. Raymond.

Bob. Alsop. B. Eyre.

Jno. Barnard. Tho. Pengelly.

The Fee to the Middlesex Sheriff's Office, for every debtor’s discharge, for one action, is 4?. Gd.

And for every additional action - - 2s. 6d. more.

Messrs. Burchell, the present humane Deputy Sheriff, frequently remit this fee, upon the Keeper’s certificate of the debtor being poor, and unable to pay the same. The warrant of such discharge is given under the hand and sea! of the Sheriff of Middlesex, and is called the Red Seal*.

I'he fee for a London debtors discharge from the Sheriffs, is the same as before stated in my description of LUDGATE prison, p. 343.

* A Seal in which are quartered the arms of both the Gentlemen (appointed by the City to be Sheriffs), who together make one Sheriff of Middlesex; the impression of which seal is always placed after the names of the Sheriff upon the said warrant in red sealing wax, from which it has obtained the name of the Red Seal.

From

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 397

From the frequency of mv visits to this prison, I have so often witnessed the very distressful state of clothing, and filthy appearance of the poorer females, particularly convicts, crowded like sheep in a pen in a few rooms, that it was matter of surprize to me there were so few on the sick list, or that the gaol-fever did not prevail! One half of the prisoners, particularly the women, are miserably poor, and having pawned or sold their clothes, are covered (scarcely covered) with rags. To prevent which every criminal should be clothed in some uniform, which could not be disposed of; and their own clothes tied up in a bundle, to be exchanged for the same upon their quitting the prison. This also might be very beneficial to the debtors, who, in any prison, are with difficulty kept in a state of cleanliness.

Here are two rooms set apart for the sick felons, and lately, a room on the attic story has been fitted up, with four iron bedsteads and bedding, for the use of the debtors; who, before, had no such accommodation, and were therefore necessarily obliged to be in the Felons’ Infirmary. Upon this subject I had a conference with that truly philanthropic character, Dr. Lettsom, who humanely accompanied me several times, visited the sick, examined every part of the prison, and gave it as his

opinion

S0§ Account of prisons for debtors *

opinion that an additional convalescent-room was absolutely necessary;

The want of a sufficiently thorough air is a very

J O J

great inconvenience to this prison: and although.* from its structure, the evil may in sortie measure be irremediable, yet, at the back part of the building towards the East, there is a yard belonging to the College of Physicians, which, if that learned body could be induced to part with, would be a great acquisition to Newgate. A space might thus he obtained to make every practicable improvement to %Ejis prison: a wall about twenty or thirty feet distant from that part of the prison might then be builtj and back windows might be made in those wards; and if some premises in Warwick-square were also taken in, it would allow room sufficient for more spacious Infirmaries, together with warm baths, and another cold hath; the present one being very inconvenient, since no person can use it, without coming into the Press-yard amongst the capital convicts.

There are no established P»ules and Orders hung up in this prison for its government (the whole resting with the Keeper); but the Court of Aldermen have appointed a Committee, for the purpose of framing some Rules to be observed by the debtors; and, in the mean time, several regulations have been judiciously adopted, and attended with such

salutary

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 309

salutary effects, that the Keeper says he has now no complaint to make against the debtors.

The Chapel is plain and neat: the prisoners silently attentive: no noise in the court-yard, noi‘ devotion interrupted by opening and shutting the door during divine service, as in the King's Bench prison. Below is a pew belonging to the Chaplain j and adjoining to it a larger pew for men criminals; opposite to which are three benches, inclosed with an iron-railing, set apart also for men of that class, capital convicts excepted, who sit in a pew about the middle of the chapel, with a large table in it, whereon a coffin is placed, whenever any persons, but murderers *, are ordered for execution. Facing the communion-table are the pulpit and reading desk. On the South side is a gallery for debtors, and on the North side another for women criminals; in which last-mentioned gallery at the West end, and over the Chaplain’s pew, is an enclosed seat for the Sheriffs. The chapel being not large enough to contain all the prisoners in the gaol, they are left to their own option: Those, however, who do not attend divine service on Sunday are generally detained in their several wards, and not permitted to hinder the edification of such as are better disposed.

* Persons to be executed for murder are kept on bread and water, and confined in the cell?, where the minister attends them.

The

400

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

The danger in point of health to the prisoners* and to the City, has at times been very imminent* from the great number of persons crowded together in a space comparatively small. The number of prisoners here in May 1802 was 8Cf; and the average number for some years previous had beeh from ()00 to 700. The number of deaths between the first of January and the first of May in the year 1803 was 49, many of whom, we may reasonably suppose to have died of putrid disorders* as I have been informed that some very hale and robust men* who had been removed from the Poultry Compter in a perfect state of health, but a few days before, were among the number above mentioned. Since, however, a more frequent removal of convicts has taken place, the deaths have happened more among the debtors than the criminals; because the average number of them has not been so much reduced (except immediately after the passing of an Insolvent Act) as the felons, whose average has been reduced by nearly one half, and of whom two only have died within the last two years: And of the whole Gaol List, whether debtors or felons, not one died of putrid or infectious fever within the same period. Here let me observe, that if all the Sheriff’s debtors in the vicinity of London were taken by Habeas Corpus (as formerly) before a Judge, to be charged in execution, their average number in the common

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 401

gaols would be much reduced, as there would them remain none but those upon mesne-process, together with the Court of Conscience Debtors; and a still greater security from the danger of contagion might be expected.

Heretofore, the gaol was not sufficiently supplied with soft water to cleanse the court-yards, and the well of the pump was frequently dry:But the City have now (1807) caused the supply of water to be daily, instead of three times a week; and have also erected an engine, by which the water can easily be forced through leathern hose into every part of the prison.

The Act and Clauses are conspicuously hung up; and the Gaoler is equally intelligent and humane.

Prisoners discharged by Proclutnation are liberated in a morning, and have one shilling each given them. Others are discharged, as acquitted on Trial? in the day time, or the evening, without any money

being mven to them. This is the more to be revs o

gretted, as I am credibly informed that an instance has occurred, of a woman’s having been discharged •pennyless on one day, and brought in again on the next.

The number of prisoners on Mesne Process for want of bail in Newgate, on the 4th May 1807, for debts under 20/. was forty-eight, having 85 children *

Cc

Number

402

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Number of prisoners for debts above 20/. and under 30/. at the same time, twenty-five, having 57 children. Ditto, for debts above 30/. and under 40/. thirteen, having 23 children.

Since writing the above account of Newgate, I am informed that the College of Physicians have determined to dispose of the whole of their premises in Wanvick-lane; and it is hoped that so excellent an opportunity will not be lost by the City; as every means will thus be afforded, to build a separate Gaol for the debtors, and thereby render that

for the felons far more commodious and wholesome. *

There seems to be some deficiency in the mode of conducting the Chapel-service, from the want of a discreet and steady person, able to lead the Responses, and to set, and join in singing the Psalm. This, I should conceive to be an essential business, and especially worthy of attention in all Gaols; inasmuch as the neglect of religious duties, both in principle, and in manner, is generally the first fatal step towards a reprobate and dishonest course of life. Criminals imprisoned, being for the most part ignorant of their most important duty, are often at a loss how to conduct themselves at Chapel, without having some person in the Lay Clerk's Desk, to whom they may look up, as a guide for their proper demeanour.

I

4

404

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

NORTHAMPTON, County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Wright.

Salary, 17 0/. for Gaol and Bridewell.

Tees. See Table. Besides which the Under* sheriff demands 8s. 8d. for his liberate ! Garnish; Abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. John IVatts.

Duty. Prayers twice a week, and Sermon every Sunday.

Salary, 50l.

Surgeon, Mr. Hardin. Salary -267.

Number of Debtors,

1801, Aug. 18th, — 10 I 1805, Sept. 2dth, - 6

1802, Jan. 31st, - 10 1 1807, July 24th, - 13

Allowance, to Debtors, none whatever.

REMARKS.

T1 iis Gaol is also the County Bridewell, and ad- j oins the Town-Hall. The Turnkey’s lodge in front, the Grand Jury-room on the first floor: three rooms for men debtors on the second floor, each about 23 feet by 14, and a smaller one for the women debtors. To these the Keeper furnishes beds at 2s. per week;

and

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

405

and two sleep together. If the debtor finds his own bed and bedding, he pays 1a*. per week.

On the ground-floor is a day-room, about 28 feet by 20, and a work-room 15 feet by 10. The court for men and women debtors is 17 yards by 14, well supplied with water, which is laid on.

Common-side debtors are allowed a straw bed, a sheet, and a rug.

The Keeper's house, which is in the middle of the prison, has on the first floor the Chapel, 31 feet by 25, where the prisoners are seated in sight of each other; and over it two infirmary-rooms, the same size, with a fire-place in each. There is a warm and cold bath, and an oven to purify infected clothes.

The whole prison very clean; mops, brooms, pails, and soap being allowed for that purpose. In the centre of the building is an alarm-bell.

No work furnished by the County now. In some of the rooms I saw work in the looms half-finished, at my visit in 1801; but the expence exceeding the profits caused the County to discontinue it.

N.B. For the beneficial effects of employment in prisons, See Dorchester, p. l6'4, Gloucester, p. 242, and many others in the course of this work.

A Table

406 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

A Table of Debtors’ Rates and Fees, allowed by the Justices for the County of Northampton; 16th January, 1776. Approved by the Judges of Assize, 4th March, 1777.

Ordered, by this Court, that the following Rates and Fees be taken by the Keeper of his Majesty's Gaol for the said County; and no other:

s. d.

For the lodging of every prisoner for debt, in his

house, per week, -20

For the discharge of every such prisoner out of custody for debt, - 13 4

Ditto to the Turnkey, - 2 0

For the copy of every warrant, - - 10

For signing a certificate, in order to obtain a supersedeas, - -20

For registering a declaration, - - 10

OO 7

For attending with every prisoner, in order to givG bail, or be otherwise discharged for debt, within the town of Northampton, - - 2 0

We, the Judges of Assize for the County of North: amp ton, have reviewed, anti do hereby confirm, the above written Table of Fees.

S. S. Smytiie.

G. Nares.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 407

NORTHAMPTON, Town Gaol.

Gaoler, Robert Roberts; Sherifi’s Officer, and bellman for the town.

Salary, 10 /.

Fees, 10 s.6d. on commitment; 13>?. 4d. on discharge. No table.

Chaplain. None. See Remarks.

Surgeon, Mr. Blissard; who makes a bill.

f 1800, March 31st, — 2

Number of Debtors, < 1805, Sept. 2dth, - 0

I 1807, July 24th, - 0

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, which is also the town Bridewell, is situate in Fish-lane, and was built in 1792. The Keeper is a tobacco-pipe maker; his house fronts the street, and the windows command a view of the twro court-yards for criminal prisoners, which are both 19 feet by 15, with cisterns for pump-water, and a sewer in each.

Here is one court-yard for all descriptions of prisoners, 21 feet by 18. Debtors have only one room upstairs, adjoining the Bridewell-room, 14 feet by 11, and 9 feet high, with a fire-place, and two glazed iron-grated windows: the sewer in one

O O

The

corner.

408 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEETORS

The Town allows to poor debtors, one blanket, and straw upon the floor. Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, hung up.

No room set apart for an Infirmary.

As there are no mops, brooms, or pails allowed to keep the prison clean, the cells were very offensive, for want of proper drains.

Debtors are sent here by process issuing out of the Borough Court; and the Gaoler told me that no debtor had received the six-pences during the time (eight years) which he had kept the prison.

Divine service was occasionally performed by the Kev. John St odd art, without a stipend; but that gentleman becoming blind, no religious attentions have been paid to the prisoners for several years.

Here, as in too many other Gaols, I found a poor Lanatick. This melancholy state I have commented upon in various instances; and most heartily wish it were well considered by an hupian$ Magistracy, and some effectual improvement adopted.

' JN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES,

40.r)

NORWICH CASTLE; Norfolk, County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Johnson. Salary, lCo/.

And allowed two Turnkeys, to whom the County pays 10s. 6d. per week each.

Fees and Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Hansell. Salary, 50l.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Sunday; and Prayers Tuesday and Friday.

Surgeon, Edward Right/, Esq. *

Salary, 401, for Debtors and Felons.

Allowance. One pound and a half of bread per day:and half a pound of cheese per week to each. One bushel of coals to each room per week in Winter, and half a bushel in Summer; to be increased or diminished at the discretion of the Visiting Justices.

* Mayor of Norwich. I beg leave here to pay my respectful acknowledgments to the worthy Chief Magistrate, for his politeness in accompanying me to the prisons, hospital, and work-houses of this City.

Number

410

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

REMARKS.

The Castle is situated on the summit of a hilR and the prison has been enlarged by additional buildings. The Gaoler’s house is on the right of

o s o

the entrance, and on the ground^floor is his parlour, and the Visiting Magistrates’ committee-room; but seldom used, on account of the drain under the window, which, at times, makes both rooms extremely offensive. A small area, 18 feet 6 inches by 15, divides the Keeper’s house from the Turnkey’s lodge on the deft; and over it is the Chapel, the lower part of which is appropriated to criminal prisoners, and the Gallery for Debtors. The Master's-side, or better order of Debtors, who are on the Keeper’s side of the prison, have five rooms, 12 feet by 7, with fire-places in each, and glazed windows; but the easements (20 inches by 12) are too small.

On the Chapel side are three rooms, 10 feet square, with glazed windows, but no fire-place:and four others, 15 feet by 10, with fire-places, and glazed windows. The debtors’court-yard is 37 feet by 26, with a pump in it, which is supplied with water from another pump in the felons' court. The women debtors, of the master’s side, have three cells, each <) feet by 7? with a day-room 12 feet square; a fireplace in it, and glazed windows: their court-yard is

, 17

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 41 1

17 feet by 7* To ah the above rooms the Keeper furnishes beds and bedding, and the price per week is painted on the doors, from is. 67/. to 4s. each; but none of the rooms have sufficient air to be wholesome. Common-side debtors, men and women, have six sleeping-rooms, each Q feet by 7; a day-room, 12 feet square, with a fire-place, and all the windows are glazed. These rooms are furnished by the county with a bedstead, rush mat, two blankets, and a fug, with the addition of another blanket in the winter. Their court-yard is 24 feet square, with an arcade of 18 feet square; and the pump there is likewise supplied from that in the felons’ yard. Male and female debtors have only one day-room. Every debtor is allowed to purchase one quart of ale or porter daily, but not more:no other liquor is permitted, except by order of the Surgeon, in case of sickness. The Clauses prohibiting Spirituous Liquors are hung up in the gaol, but the Act for preserving Health is placed in the Crown Court of the Shire-Hall adjoining; so that prisoners have no opportunity of seeing it. Debtors are allowed to work, if they can procure it from without; and they have all they earn. The general employment is shoemaker's and taylor’s work, cutting pegs, skewers, and making nets.

Here is a nurse, or matron, who is paid 6s. per vycek by the County: her duty is to attend the sick,

as

t

412

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

as well poor debtors as criminals, and to provide for them broth, gruel, milk-pottage, wine, &c. by order of the Surgeon; of whose professional abilities, humanity, and assiduous attentions, the hospital and prison-books bear ample record.

Many are the comforts here afforded, to soften the sorrows of imprisonment, by the considerate Magistrates:But, the defects in the construction of this gaol are many and great. Frequent escapes prove that it is not secure; hence almost all the prisoners are in irons. The court-yards are small, and the air is impure:every chimney smokes; the sewers are all dead wells, about five feet deep, most intolerably fetid, and sufficient to poison the whole building. The situation and construction of these receptacles of filth are of the greatest importance in prisons, and have always engaged my peculiar attention, as a principal cause of unhealthiness in many of our gaols.

The two cells for refractory debtors, g feet by 7 each, are made under two of the arcades in the felons’ court.

The lobbies, or passages, are scarce wide enough for a single person. No proper separation by classes; and the Gaoler s house commands but a very small part of the prison.

The worthy Chaplain has a discretionary power to purchase (at the expence of the County) bibles

and

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 41J

and common prayer books, and such pious tracts as he may think conducive to the religious instruction of the prisoners, and distribute them.

Every prisoner attended divine service when I was here, on the 8th September 1805 5 and their behaviour was orderly, and attentive to a very suitable and impressive discourse.

Mops, brooms, pails, towels, washing-bowls, coal-boxes, &c. are ordered by the liberal magistrates for the use of the prisoners, so that their persons, and all parts of the prison, may be kept in a state of cleanliness: and their orders I found lite* rally obeyed by the attentive Keeper.

Mrs. Frances Kempe (an extract of whose will I have by me) formerly bequeathed three pounds to the poor of Norwich and Heydon: thirty shillings, for preaching three sermons a year, and thirty shillings to the prisoners in the Hall and Castle Gaols, annually, forever. For the payment she bound an estate in Heydon, left her by her father, John Mingay, Esq.

The payment of these legacies to the poor prisoners has for many years been cruelly withheld. The Gaolers could furnish me with only one solitary instance of 5s. being paid by the parish of St. Stephen.

Extract from the Will of the late J. Norris, Esq. of JVitton.

<c AND I do also give and bequeath, out of my personal estate, unto the Dean of the cathedral church of the Holy and Undivided Trinity of Norwich, of the foundation

414 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

tion of King Edward the Sixth, and the Chapter of the said Church, so much money as shall and will purchase so much three per Cent. Consols, transferable at the Bank of England, to be transferred into the names of the said Dean and Chapter, as will annually produce the sum of five pounds and five shillings, for the interest or dividend thereof; upon trust) that the said Dean, and the then resident Prebendaries of the said cathedral church, shall and do annually, within ten days after the feast of the Nativity of our Lord, in every year (except tile feast happening after my decease), lay out so much of the said annual sum of five pounds and five shillings as shall be requisite in purchasing the New Testament, and a book called the “ Great Importance of a Religious Life, ” and also some manual of Devotion for each and every of the prisoners within the county gaol of Norfolk, (called the Castle,) who can read; and shall and do pay and distribute the, overplus of the said annual sum of five pounds and five shillings to and amongst such of the said prisoners confined for felony in the said gaol, as shall be most necessitous, or as the said Dean and resident Prebendaries shall think most deserving objects of such charity; in such shares and proportions as they shall, in their discretion, think fit; or shall lay out and expend such overplus in the purchasing beef, weekly, for all and every of the prisoners confined for felony in the said gaol indiscriminately, as the said Dean and resident Prebendaries shall, ill their discretion, best please.”

An addition was made to this legacy 28th Nov. 1797, by the purchase of 75/. 3 per Cent. Consols, so that seven guineas is now annually allowed by the Dean and Chapter to be expended as aforesaid.

The annual average number o, f Debtors confined in the Castle the last seven years, Jtfty-sevetu

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 415

NORWICH, City Gaol.

Gaoler, Edward Sharpe.

Salary, heretofore do/. now 1 OOl Fees, 46'. 4d. entrance; and 3s. 4d. on discharge. Garnish, prohibited; but debtors sometimes pay a gallon of beer on entrance:It is called the icelcome pitcher.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Millard. Salary, 301.

Duty; prayers and sermon every other Sunday.

Surgeon, Mr. Keymer.

Salary, SI. Ss. for debtors and felons.

Allowance. One pound and half of best wheaten bread, sent in loaves from the baker’s, which I found full weight. See Remarks.

This prison is opposite the Town-hall, and the gaoler’s house fronts the street. At the back part is the debtors’ court, which is of an irregular form, about 83 feet by 3d, with a pump in it. It is paved with pebble stones, and has a gravel-walk in' the centre. A small garden, 33 feet by 21, divides

Number of Debtors

REMARKS.

it

4ltf

ACCOUNT OF PRISOX3 FOR DERTGRS

it from the male felons’ courts but it is separated from that of the female felons’ by open palisades only. Master-side debtors have twelve good-sized rooms; ten of which have Hre-places: these are furnished by the Keeper with beds and bedding, from 2s. to 5s. per week; the price of each room is painted oil the door. Here are also two spacious and well-ventilated infirmary-rooms, 22 feet by 17 each, and 11 feet 8 inches high, with fire-places and glazed windows, iron bedsteads, and bedding.

Common-side Debtors had heretofore a room, or more properly a cellar, 10 steps below their courtyard, 17 feet by 13f, and 7 feet high, with a fireplace:it was lighted and ventilated by a small iron-grated window, 24 inches by 22, with straw on the damp brick-floor. This room, or cellar, has since been discontinued, and over it Common-side debtors have now a good day-room, 20 feet by 14, and 8 feet high:also above it a good lodging-room, ip feet by 143 and 8 feet 0 inches high; and a third room, 22 feet by 14, and 8§ feet high, with glazed windows.

These three are all free-wards, in case the debtor brings his own bed:but if the Keeper furnishes one, he is paid is. (id. per week for a single bed; and if two sleep together, is-, each. The old Chapel, which was a small room in front of the street, is now (lSOfi) converted into a wash-house, and a new chapel made

at

IN ENGLAND., SCOTLAND* AND WALES. 417

at the upper end of the Court, over a room called Potters Cellar: it is 2/ feet by 15, and 11 feet 8 inches high. There is an excellent cold and warm bath, with coppers, &c. The Keeper’s house commands every Court. The Act and Clauses are conspicuously hung up; and the whole prison kept very clean.

The City allows to Debtors one chaldron of coals yearly. A begging-box is sent about the town, which averages about one shilling per day, and a basket to collect broken victuals:The person thus employed is a pauper from the workhouse, who receives one penny out of every shilling he collects, and one shilling per week from the city. Ten shillings are annually paid on New-year’s day, the legacy of Mr. Blackhead, of which there is a written memorial in the gaol. Ten shillings annually from the Corporation, 10th May, 4th June, 22d September, 25th October, and 5th November; and nine pence to each prisoner upon the Saturday before Shrovetide, Easter, Whitsuntide, and Christmas.

On New-year’s day 5s. paid by the parish of St. Stephen; and on the 10th May 5s. by the parish of St. John Sepulchre:this had been discontinued for more than sixteen years; and both seemed to' be the legacy of Mrs. Kenipc. See Remarks on Norwich Castle, p. 413 *

418 account of prisons for debtors

NOTTINGHAM.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Ifolt.

Salary, 140l.

Fees, 13-v. 4d. and to the Turnkey 1.9. 4<A Besides which the Under-sherifi’ demands four shillings for his liberate !

Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. William Gilt.

Duty, Prayers every Thursday; and Prayers and Sermon every Sunday, Christmas-day, and Good Friday.

Salary, 50l.

Surgeon, Mr. Partridge.

Salary, for debtors and felons, Sic. 30/.

Number of Debtors, (1800> Mi>rch 1Srth’ ' 7

L 1805, Sept. 2<>th, - - &

Allowance. Sixteen ounces of bread per day, ‘ent in loaves from the baker’s. See Remarks.

REMARKS.

This Gaol adjoins to, and stands on the South side of the County or Shire JIall. It is situate on the declivity of a hill. The entrance to it is down a pas-

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 416

Sage from the street, leading to the Turnkey’s lodge; and close to this is the debtor’s Court-yard, of 100 feet by 41, with a flagged terrace, and handsome iron palisades, commanding a view of three Counties.

On the East side of the debtors’ court is their day-apartment, or common mess-room, seventeen feet by ten; with a glazed window, a file-place, and side-oven; and also three good-sized sleeping-rooms.

On the North side are three other sleeping-rooms; one of which, near the Bath, was lately converted fo this its proper use, out of the Keeper's stable, now disused. The average size of these rooms is 22 feet S inches by 10 feet. At present there is no place set apart for an infirmary. Women debtors have a room 20 feet square* which has a flagged floor, arched roof, a fire-place* and a .large window, that very improperly looks into the men’s court.

To all the abbve-mentioned rooms the Keeper supplies beds and bedding, at 3.?. per week for a single person; or at 2s. per week, if two sleep together. Over the mess-room is a small chapel, 23 feet by 20 feet 6‘ inches; which has four glazed windows. The sexes are separately placed, and all attended divine service when I was here.

Those poorer debtors who cannot afford to pay for a bed* are most uncomfortably provided for in

p D 2 this

420 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

this County prison. Their descent is by twenty-eight steps, to thre miserable sleeping-rooms, called free wards:the two largest, about twelve feet by f), have fire-places; the third, which formerly was the condemned room, or place assigned for convicts under sentence of death, is about q feet square, with a wooden bedstead in it; and all have a small iron-crated and glazed window. The debtors here

o O

confined are obliged to furnish their own beds, which yet necessity only in the extreme can induce, or rather compel, them to occupy.

A considerable part of the North side of the debtors’ court-yard is still occupied by a large dust-hole and dung-yard, leading to arcades, under which are a capacious and convenient bath, with a copper to warm it when necessary; but they are seldom used. Two pumps and three cisterns supply the bath, the Gaoler’s house, and the whole prison, with soft water from the river Leen:It is sometimes muddy, and at other times must be fetched from the bath.

There is a well sunk in the felons’ old courtyard, near the Keeper's parlour; which, if a pump were put down, would supply the whole gaol with excellent spring-water. The well was covered over in the year 17; )/); for which the only reason I could hepr assigned was, that some prisoners, then here, had thrown improper things into it.

83* The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 42

The arcades under the County-hall would afford good room for workshops, and comfortable free-wards for the poor Common-side debtors:and adjoining to the Turnkey’s lodge there is sufficient space for a small court-yard, to accommodate the women debtors.

List of Legacies, and other Donations, to Nottingham County Gaol.

John Sher:n'u, Esq. of Nottingham, four pounds per annum, now paid quarterly by John Longdon, Esq. out of an estate at Bramscote, purchased by Mr. Shenvin of the descendants of Henry Handley, Esq. the donor.

Samuel Smith, Esq. M. P. for Nottingham, pursuant to the will of Mr. Abel Codings, four shillings monthly to the prisoners, for coals,

John Elliott, Esq. of Nottingham, sends to all the prisoners beef, bread, and ale, at Christmas.

The Rev. Mr. Gill, Chaplain, sends a large piece of beef at Christmas,

Lady Warren sends twelve stone of beef at different times to the debtors.

The High-Sheriffs, for the three last years, have sent five tons of coals; and also bread, beef, and ale, to all the prisoners.

The Grand Jury, at the Assizes, make a collection for the criminal prisoners, to the amount of from thirty to forty shillings.

Here, as I have before noticed at Derby, Horsham, &c. a man goes round the country about Christmas, and collects money at gentlemen’s houses for the Debtors.

In

422 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

I. S. (I

In 1802, the collection amounted to - 52 4 10

Paid to John Branderith the collector,

being out 12 weeks and four d; , at

two guineas per week '3 T 26 8 Q

Nett amount, - •25 16 IQ

Distributed as follows:

I. 5. (L I s. d.

1802, Dec.26th, 4debtors, 1 14 11 each 36 19 8

1803, Jan. 17th, 5 debtors, 1 15 4 8 16 8

Feb.26th, 6 debtors, 1 3 4 7 0 0

Mar. 3d, 7 debtors, 0 6 6 2 5 0

1 debtor, 0 15 6 0 15 6

-25 16 10

In 1803, collection 28 2 2

Paid collector, bein£ out ten weeks, at 3 \3 7

one guinea and half per week, 15 15 0

Nett amount, 12 7 o

Distributed as follows:

I. s. d. L s. d.

1803, Dec. 24th, 4 debtors, ! 2 0 each, 4 8 0

1804, Jan. 14th, 3 debtors, 2 2 C| 6 7 8

Feb. 1 lth, 3 debtors, 0 10 6 1116

-12 7 2

In 1804, collection 56 10 10

Paid collector, being out 12 weeks and

1 1 1 1 Vi C3 26 O q

Nett amount, «* . 30 8 10

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 42£

Distributed as follows:

I. s. d. d;

Dec. 24th, 7debtors, I 5 0each, 8 15 0

Jan. 1 Gth, 5 debtors, 1 9 6 7 7 G

Feb. 7th, 7 debtors, 0 13 0 4 11 0

Mar. 2d, S debtors, 1 0 0 1 0

1 debtor, 0 14 4 0 14 4

-—30

The Surgeon has a discretionary power to order the indulgences of extra clothing, linen, food, wine, &c. for sick and infirm prisoners, as he finds essentially necessary.

The Act for Preservation of Health, and .Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are hung up in the debtors’ mess-room.

Some years since the following singular incident happened with respect to this prison, which is vouched by good authority. On the lpth of February 1787, two women {Mabel Morris and Elizabeth Morris) were committed to this gaol, by virtue of a Bishop’s writ, and confined there till the 25th of February 1; when some repairs

being wanted at the prison, their doors were thrown open:they sent for a cart, in which their goods were loaded, in the day-time, and the women went out unmolested. Application was made to the Sheriff, to know if they were to be brought back to prison, but nothing was done; and at rny last visit.

in

424 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

in September 1805, 'they resided at Calverton, in this county. The sanction for the confinement of a prisoner upon the above-mentioned process runs thus: “ Forasmuch as the Royal Power ought not to be wanting to the Holy Church in its complaint, you are commanded to attach the said by his [or her] body, according to the law and custom of England, until he [or she] shall have made satisfaction to the Holy Church, as well for the contempt, as for the injury by fiim [or her] done unto it.” One cannot help wishing, however, that the Reformation, or the Revolution, or any other adequate and legal interference, had done away the power of such imprisonment.

I here beg leave to pay my respectful acknowledgements to William-Elliott Elliott, Esq. of Ged-ling House, late High-Sheriff of this county, who humanely accompanied me to the prisons, hospital, and work-houses: And also to the worthy Magistrates in general, for the polite notice they were pleased to take of my suggestions, relative to the state of . the gaols at Nottingham and Southwell.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 425

NOTTINGHAM, Town-Gaol.

Gaoler, Philip Bailey. A Peace-officer for the Town. Salary, 50l. and 30/. per annum for a Turnkey.

Fees, 13s. 4d. Besides which the Under-

sheriff demands 4-s. for his liberate !

Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain. None; nor any religious attentions.

Surgeon, Mr. Basnet.

Salary, lol. lOs. for gaol, andhouse of correction.

Number of Debtors, (1800’ ^Iarch 19th> " 5

I 1805, Oct. 1st, - - 7

Allowance. A threepenny loaf per day each; weight, in October lS05, 1 lb. 1 oz. and when a debtor has obtained his sixpences, he continues to receive the County bread.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is partly under the Guildhall: The Keeper’s house fronts the street; and his windows, as well as those of the Turnkey’s lodge, command a view both of the debtors’ and criminals’ courts. For debtors here are two court-yards; the upper one, 33 feet by 23, has a flagged floor, and is over the Felons* Pity which receives its light and ventilation from a circular iron-grating, 11 feet in diameter, placed in

426 ACCOUNT OK PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

the centre of this court. The. lower yard is 383 feet by 23, with a dust-hole and a sewer at the upper end. They have nine good-sized sleeping-rooms, with fire-places and glazed windows, well furnished by the Gaoler; for which they pay, if two sleep in one bed, 2-s. per week; or if the debtor has a bed to himself, The debtors were employed in

weaving, making shoes, cutting pegs, &c. and receive all they earn. The whole prison is well supplied with river-water, and there is a pump in the adjoining street, from which excellent spring-water is fetched by the Keeper for all his prisoners. Debtors have, from a legacy, one shilling a week for coals. A collection is annually made through the town at Christmas for the prisoners in general, which, in 1804, amounted to <)l. 6s. The collector was paid for four days trouble 14£. and the remainder was divided among the sixteen prisoners, 1 Os. yd. each.

Colonel Elliott humanely gives here, as at the County Gaol, one pound of beef, a threepenny loaf, and a pint of ale at Christmas, to each prisoner. The Mayor of Nottingham likewise gives to this prison one ton of coals at Christmas. The Table of Tees, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are hung up j but not the Act for Preservation of Health.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 42

OAKHAM; Rutlandshire.

Gaoler, George Gould. Salary, 50l.

Fees. See Table. Besides which the Under-sheriff demands 9$. 2d. for hjs liberate ! Chaplain, Rev. Richard Williams; who only attends on prisoners under sentence of death. Surgeon, Mr. William Real; Salary, 5/.

s 1800, April 22d, - 3

Number of Debtors, J 1802, Jan. 28th, - 5

Il805, Sept. 2/th, - o

Allowance. Three half-quartern loaves per sveek each.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is also the County Bridewell: the Keeper’s house fronts the street, and his back windows command a view of the different Court-yards. That for the debtors is 48 feet by 10, writha day-room 15 feet square; a glazed window to the street, and a fire-place, Upstairs is a work-room, 25 feet by 14. On the other side the court, up a flight of ten steps, are two lodging-rooms, strongly planked with oak:in each of them are two beds, for which they pay as per Table. Here is a free ward for common-side debtors, to whom the county allows a straw mat, two blankets, and a rug. No room set apart for the sick. Clauses against Spirituous Liquors are hung up, but not the Act for Preservation of Health. The whole prison is thatched.

Table

428

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Table of Fees and Chamber Rent, settled 1784,

‘J2 s. d.

For lodging, every Debtor per week, - - 0 2 4

If two lie in one bed, each per week, - - 0 I />

If they find their own bed, and lie in the room called the Debtors’ Room, wherein there are bedsteads of the Gaoler’s, each per week, -010 For every Debtor that lies on the Common Side per week - - 000

For the copy of every Warrant or Commitment 0 10

For the Delivery of every Declaration - 0 10

For signing a Certificate, in order to obtain a

Supersedeas - - 6 2 Q

For the discharge of every Debtor - - 0 14 10

Attending upon every Prisoner to give Bail,

Special Bail, Habeas, or any thing necessary

to go out of Gaol, for every mile travelling - 0 1 0

We the Judges of the Assize, do hereby confirm the above-written Table of Fees.

J. Skynner,

W. II. Asiiurst.

A new Gaol is building here, on a good plan, by the ingenious Mr. Sandys.

OUSEBRIDGE Gaol; See YORK.

£N ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

429

OXFORD, Castle Gaol

Gaoler, •Daniel Harris.

Salary, 105l. and a gratuity annually from the Magistrates, of 52/. 10s.

Fees, see Table; Besides which the Under-sheriff demands %s. 6d. for his liberate /

Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Richard Graham.

Duty, Sunday, Prayers and a Sermon:Sacrament four times a year.

Salary, 42l.

Surgeon, Mr. Rawlins. Salary 30/. 5s.

Number of Debtors,

1800, April 29th, - 17 I 1802, Nov. 23d, - 17 iSoi, Jan.30th, - Id I lSod, Aug. 30th, - 2d

Allowance. See Remarks.

REMARKS.

This Gaol has a very castellated appearance. The boundary wall encloses about three acres of ground; and, being at a considerable distance from the prison, affords the Keeper a convenient garden, which supplies, not only his family, but the whole prison, with sufficient vegetables. On one side the entrance

is

430 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

is the Turnkey’s lodge, about 16 feet square, with a room above, for himself and assistants to sleep in> an office, and a store-room. On the other side, corresponding therewith, is a reception-room for prisoners, when first brought to Gaol, and above it a Lazaretto. There is a warm and cold bath, a general kitchen and bake-house for the use of the Gaol, and rooms above for the prisoners’ clothes, and the Gaol uniform. Upstairs is a remarkably neat Chapel, where the prisoners-arc seated in classes, out of sijrht of each other: and the flat roof above is the place of execution.

In the centre of the area is the keeper’s house; which overlooks all the inner court-yards, and the visiting Magistrates’ committee-room. The wing to the right of the Keeper’s house is attached to the old tower. The bottom part contains three day-rooms for debtors, lfi feet by 12, with a fire-place in each, appropriated to the three classes, two for males, and one for females: also nine sleeping-rooms, 11 feet by 8 each, with boarded floors and glazed windows, to which the debtor brings his own bed, or hires one from the town. No room-rent whatever is paid. The first story contains twelve sleeping-rooms, the same as those below.

At the East end is a circular bastion, 2S feet diameter, at present (1806‘) unfinished, four stories high; each containing two rooms of a semicircular form, -

iS ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 431

30 feet by 15, with a fire-place in each: these are intended for work and sleeping-rooms. No employment is furnished by the County; but those who can procure it from without, are allowed to work, and receive the whole of their earnings.

' n

At the end of this building, and adjoining the old tower, are four cells, 11 feet by 8 each, to which there is a day-room, of an irregular polygon shape, about 25 feet by 13. These are intended for the separation of prisoners, such as king’s evidence, refractory, &c. The ground-floor of the old tower is the dungeon, 20 feet square and 20 feet high, the floor of which is mud, and it receives a glimmering light through a small treble-bar iron-grating, 15 feet high, just sufficient to make darkness visible. This is used as a Black Hole, for the short confinement of those taken in an actual attempt to escape, or the very unruly and turbulent.

The first floor contains a room of the same size as the dungeon below:it has a boarded floor, with one treble-bar iron-grated window, and is called the Condemned Room. The second and third stories contain each one room, the same size as those below; but the keeper assured me they had not been used these fifteen years. The upper room of this tower is of the same size as the others: it has a boarded floor, one window, and a large lanthorn light; and is intended for the use of debtors (as formerly), if found necessary. An engine throws water into a leaden

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

43 *

cistern, from which every part of the gaol is Well supplied. The sewers are conveniently constructed, and not offensive.

The following Table is hung up in the Turnkey’s Lodge. of Oxfordshire, to wit. Michaelmas Sessions,

8th George II. 1734.

A Table of Fees and Chamber-rent, settled in pursuance of an Act for the Relief of Debtors, &c.

I. s. d.

To the master-keeper, for every warrant charged

upon any debtor, - - ~ 0 6 8

To the under-keeper - - -026

To him, for every other warrant, - - 0 10

To the master-keeper, for every prisoner committed by any justice of peace for treason, felony, or any other misdemeanour, or committed in court - - - 0134

To the under-keeper - - 0 2 Q

To the master-keeper, for receiving and entering every declaration against any debtor 0 2 0,

For his certificate of no declaration filed - 0 10

For a copy of every sheriff’s warrant - 0 10

For a copy of every other warrant - - 0 1 6

[There are four other articles; but as they relate to bedding, and chamber-rent, which are now (1806) done away, I do not transcribe them.]

“ We, his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace of the County of Oxfoi'd (whereof some of us are of

the

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 433

' the Quorum), have perused the Fees and Chamber-rent above-mentioned, and do allow thereof; and direct the same to be hung up in a Table, in some open and public room, or place, in the said Castle; there to remain, and be resorted to by every prisoner, as occasion shall require.

Wm. Holmes, Tho. Blaeliall. Tho. Pardoc.

Vice Chancellor. John Willis. Philip Powys.

John Dewe.

Seen and allowed,

E. Probyn,

J. COMYNS.”

Donations to the Castle Gaol.

Thomas Horde, by will, dated August bth lyog, left 24/. a year to be distributed among prisoners of hotli sorts, at 2/. a month. For the payment he bound an estate in Oxfordshire: and to make up any deficiency of that estate, he bound an estate in Berkshire. But this estate having been recovered against the charity since his death, the prisoners have now only thirty-three shillings a month, which is paid by the President of Trinity College.

There is another legacy to prisoners of both sorts, Ss. 8d. paid quarterly from Magdalen-college.

434 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

From which also, in Lent, there is about forty shillings, called forfeit money. From Merton-col-lege six-pence per week in bread to debtors. Corpus Christi College, and other colleges, send 7s. 6d4 every month in bread, and a peck of oatmeal for debtors. Soup is sent from several colleges frequently in the winter, but at no stated periods.

Christ Church College sends fifty shillings every Christmas, and six pounds of mutton every Saturday, of which debtors partake in common; and the Vice Chancellor gives annually thirty shillings, at Christmas.

The Rev. Mr. Swinton, formerly Chaplain to this Gaol, bequeathed the interest of One Hundred Pounds, three per cent. South Sea Annuities, to be distributed in bread (three penny loaves) every Sunday, while it lasts, to each prisoner who regularly attends chapel.

Every prisoner was present at divine service on my last visit (31st August lSotf), and their behaviour was orderly and attentive.

It is pleasing to add, that this Gaol is in a continued state of improvement.

iN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 435

OXFORD, City Gaol

Gaoler, Thomas Wharton.

Salary, was 30/. now (180G) 52/. 10s.

Fees, Qs. 2d.

Garnish, none.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Penson.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Sunday.

Salary, 10l. 10s.

Surgeon, Mr. Rawlins; makes a bill.

/'-1800, April 2, 9th, - 1

Number of Debtors, < 1802, Nov. 23d, - O

L1806, Aug. 30th, - 1

Allowance, none. See the Remarks.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is surrounded by a boundary wall 20 feet high, inclosing about an acre of land; and being at the distance of 25 feet from the prison, the Keeper has within it a convenient garden for the growth of vegetables. There is an alarm-bell at the top of the prison. The Gaolers house, in the centre of the building, fronts the outer gate; and has on each side a small flower-garden, 40 feet by 20, enclosed with open wood palisades. At the entrance is a room, about ten feet square, in which the Act for preserving Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors are conspicuously hung up.

436 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS *

In this small room is an old door, with the following Inscription, engraved on a brass plate, “ This door (c was at the entrance of a cell in the old city gaol

O

(C Boccardo, called the Bishops’ Room; wherein fc the Bishops Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer were “ confined, and from whence they were taken to “ suffer martyrdom in the town-ditch, behind the “ houses opposite Baliol College, in the reign of iC Queen Mary.” Over the door are the heads of the three prelates, burnt in wood.

Here are five court-yards, each about 54 feet by 2y, enclosed with wooden palisades, three for criminals, and two for male and female debtors.

The ground-floor of the prison consists of the visiting Magistrates’-room, the Gaoler’s kitchen; a place called the Hall (an irregular octagon of 23 feet diameter), and two day-rooms for criminal prisoners, one for men, the other for women, with a fire-place in each, and shelves for putting their provisions on. The hall has on each side a lobby, 43 feet long and 5 feet wide, with three work-cells, 8 feet by 6, and 9 feet high to the crown of the arch; and both terminate with a cold bath, and a staircase leading to the Chapel; which is on the first story, and being over the hall, is the same size, and open to the top of the building, with a sky-light in the roof: the debtors sit be lew, and the felons in the gallery. On each side the chapel is a lobby, similar

to

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 437

to those below, each containing eight sleeping-cells, of the same size as the workshops. Two day-rooms for debtors, about 14 feet square, with fire-places, and a sleeping-room, to which the Keeper furnishes beds at l.v. 67/. per week each. Common-side debtors sleep in cells, to which the Corporation allows a plank-bedstead, 22 indies wide and 0 feet long, a straw mat, and two blankets. The second, or attic story, contains two dark cells for refractory prisoners, two lazarettos, and 16 sleeping-cells. Two hospital-rooms, with fire-places, one for men, the other for women, 15 feet square, and a water-closet in each.

Here is a dispensary, with a door opening into the chapel; and over it is a large cistern, filled with water by a forcing-pump at the back of the gaol, which supplies the whole prison. Towels, soap, &c. are allowed by the City for prison cleanliness. Coals in the Winter, and meat and soup, are frequently sent by the considerate Magistrates; and when a prisoner is ill, the Surgeon has a discretionary power to order such food, &c. as he thinks necessary.

Here are seldom any debtors; none being sent but by a writ issuing from the City Court. The Magistrates visit in monthly rotation, and enter their remarks in a book at the Gaol.

438 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

PENZANCE; Cornwall.

Gaoler, Humphrey Bridgeman (who is also a Sheriffs Officer).

Salary, none:he pays rent 77s. to the landlord of the public-house.

Fees, Ss. 4d. every action, and 2s. id. entrance.

No Table,

, -lS00, April ldth, - 1

Number of Debtors, J 1803, Oct. 14th, - O

1lSob, Oct. 4th, - - 0

Allowance, none whatever.

REMARKS.

This prison, for the hundred and liberties of Penwith, is an appurtenance to the manor of Conner ton, which is the property of Lord Arundel; who, in right of the manor, is bound to provide such prison. This right is delegated by his Lordship to his Steward, or to his Bailiff; who gives security for the safe custody of all prisoners confined there for debt, taking the whole responsibility upon himself.

rJ he Court of Penwith is a Court of Record, holding picas of debt to any amount.

This

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 439

This wretched prison (which is in the stable-yard of a public-house) is 13 feet by 10 feet 5 inches, and 6 feet high, with an offensive sewer at one corner. The floor is very damp, paved with pebble-stones like the street, and without a fire-place; and the only light or ventilation it receives, is from an iron-grated aperture, two feet square, without casement or glass to keep out the cold. No court-yard. No water. In December 1801 two debtors, Nicholas Basset and Thomas Nicholas (a carpenter aged 70), were released from this miserable gaol by the Society for relief of persons confined for Small Debts, after suffering twelve months imprisonment. Their letter of thanks I have preserved. The number of debtors committed to this prison is about 10 or 12 in the year. The last pitiable inhabitant was Thomas Hoshin, farmer, of Mardon parish, aged 64. He was committed the 25th of March 1803, for a debt of 201, or thereabouts, and released the 6th of May following. Here is no allowance, even of bread; so that if his friends and some neighbours had not been charitable, he must have perished with hunger. He never but once was let out for fresh air, and then only for half an hour, to speak with his children. The Gaoler lives half a mile of F; and in case of sudden illness, or fire, he might have perished before relief could come. His provisions were given to him through the centre bars of the

small

440

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

small iron grating (five inches apart), and so the Keeper had no occasion to come near the prison. Hoslin had a bed supplied him by his friends, or he must have slept upon the scanty pittance of straw on the floor !

The Gaoler has for many years received from the butchers in the hundred of Penwith, at Christmas Market, one shilling each for every bullock killed. The amount at Christmas 1802 was as follows:

L s. d.

Marazion, - — — - 0 6 0

Penzance, - - 1 8 0

Bed ruth, - - 1 10 0

St. Ives, 10^. St. Just, <)s. - 0 ID 0

Hundred-Pound, - 1 0. 0

Manor-Pound, per cinmap, - 0 14 0

Total, 5 17 0

The Bailiff may choose any place for his prison where he can hire a room the cheapest. At my visit in 1 Sod I was glad to find this prison turned into a milk-cellar.

The Gaoler informs me, by letter dated January 1808, that he is not likely to have any more prisonT ers, (C because execution is now issued against the goods, instead of the person of the debtor

* An example worthy of imitation. See Macclesfield, p. 3^9/

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 441

PETERBOROUGH; Northamptonshire.

Gaoler, William Millwood, SherifPs Oilicer.

Salary, 30l. Fees, 6s. 8d.

Chaplain, none. But when a prisoner lies under sentence of death, the Vicar of St. John’s, for the time being, is required to attend him.

Salary, none.

Surgeon, Mr. Beet ham, who makes a bill.

, f 1802, Jan. 28th, - 1

IS umber of Debtors, 1

* <----, Aug. qth, - o

Allowance to debtors, nope. Felons, &c. (kl. per day.

Remarks.—This Gaol, for the liberty called the Sohe, which contains thirty-two towns, is the property of the Marquis of Exeter. It is now also the prison of the Dean and Chapter of Peterborough. Here is one court-yard only for prisoners of all descriptions, 63 feet by 21, with a pump and sewer; pud a day-room ip feet 6 inches, by 13 feet 6.

Master s-side debtors have a spacious good room above stairs; for which, if the Keeper furnishes a bed, they pay each 2s. 4d. per week; if the debtor finds his own bed. Is. per week. Common-side debtors are allowed a bedstead only and straw. No employment provided. The gaol was very clean.

442

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

PLYMOUTH; Devonshire.

Gaolers, Tho. Tatam, Geo. Pardon, Tho. Toicton, who are likewise Serjeants at Mace.

Salary, 15l. per annum each.

Fees: Arrest, 15^- Dicharge, 15s. 4<L No table.

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon, Mr. Richardson; makes a Bill.

Number of Debtors, So3> Oct. gth, - 1

I 1806, Oct. 9th, - o

Allowance. A three-penny loaf per day, on petition, weight (pth Oct. 1803 and 1806) 1 lb. 5 oz.

REMARKS.

This Gaol adjoins to, and is partly under the Town Hall. A door from hence opens into it, through which the prisoners are brought into court for trial, by a flight of seventeen steps. The three lowermost cells, $ feet by 5, with arched roofs, have two iron-grated and opposite windows; one of which looks into the corn-market, and the other into a lobby, or passage, three feet wide, that has a grated window opening toward Bowl Hill.

The next story has two cells, about 12 feet by 10, and 7 feet high.

The story above this is called the Womens Gaol, containing two rooms with boarded floors, .

glazed

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 443

glazed windows, and a fire-place in each. Over these are three rooms for debtors, with fire-places; but no Jiring is allowed. Their accommodation is straw in sacking on crib-bedsteads, one blanket, and two rugs. They have also the use of the attic story, which is 19 feet by 12, and 7 feet high, and likewise of the flat roof, 21 feet by 12, to take the air upon. It is enclosed by a wall 14 feet high, and a wooden chevaux-de-frise.

The prisoners hold a constant communication with passengers in the street, and, by/letting down a canister or hat, receive money, &c.

The whole prison very dirty: the lowermost cells filthy in the extreme, with urine and excrement.— In the Women’s Gaol there are two rooms; yet in 1806 three female criminal prisoners were put together into one of these rooms, although one of them had a young child; another had the itch; and the third said that the straw in her bed had not been changed in seven months: it was indeed literally worn to dust.

The Gaolers live distant. There is no court-yard, and the prison is ill supplied with water.

The respectable Mayor of Ply mouth, who politely accompanied me, said it was in contemplation to huild a new prison.

444

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

POOLE; Dorsetshire. Town and County Gaol.

Gaoler, William Arney. Salary, 8^. per week. Fees, 13s. 4d. No table.

Number of

Debtors

1802, Jan. 28th, 1803, Oct. 22d,

Allowance, Sixpence per clay.

a

0

REMARKS.

A court-yard, 51 feet by 47; and a day-room 11 feet by 9. Four rooms above-stairs, for which debtors pay one shilling per week each.

The County allows firing from November till May, to debtors; but not to felons.

Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are hung up. The prison very clean.

Felons have a court-yard, the same size as that of the Debtors; but no day-room; and two sleeping-cells, 9 feet by 5 feet 10, and 8 feet 10 inches high, with wood crib-bedsteads, straw, two blankets, and a rug. Roth Courts are well supplied with water.

in England, Scotland, and wales. 445

PONTEFRACT; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, Francis Fryer. lie lives at a distance, and keeps a public-house: is also Sergeant at Mace, and a Sheriff's Officer.

Salary. One Guinea per annum.

Fees, 135. 4d. No Table.

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors,

1802, Aug. ldth, - - 1,

Allowance, none whatever;

REMARKS.

Debtors are sent hither by process issuing out of the Borough Court, for any sum, great or small.

This prison is under the Town Hall. The passage to the Felons' Cells is S3 feet by 12, with a fire-place at one end. It is lighted and ventilated by three very small iron-grated windows, nearly at the top of the lofty roof: And this is called “ the Room for Debtors /”

The

44G ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

The one debtor whom I found here in 1802, was a shoemaker by trade. The debt for which he suffered confinement was of his son’s contracting, for whom he had been security. His case was much commiserated in the town: he had constant employment, and the Corporation had humanely allowed him to work in one corner of the Town Hall, the stone passage below being too dark.

Without these indulgences he must have been in a miserable state; especially should the Gaoler have been from home, on a caption, or other business, so as to have forgot him; as he could neither see, nor be seen by, any person for relief.

The felons have two cells, each 12 feet by 9; the windows of which are toward the street, and the doors open, as I mentioned, into the debtors’ room. They were very offensive, from the want of means for decent cleanliness. The roofs of the cells are of stone, arched, and lofty. Straw laid on the floor.

No firing allowed: No court-yard: No water.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 447

PORTSMOUTH.

Town Gaol.

Gaoler, Edward Hunt; Serjeant at Mace.

Salary, 80l.

Fees, Caption 3>y. 4d. Discharge 6s. 2d.

Chaplain, none. Surgeon from the Parish.

Number of Debtors, { SepLlOth!“ - »

Allowance. To paupers, on petition, one penny in money, and a three-penny loaf per day; and every Wednesday 1 lb. of meat, with vegetables.

REMARKS.

This despicable gaol has but one small court-yard, 45 feet by 15, for prisoners of all descriptions; so that, on my visit in 1802, I found the five debtors (four of them women), twenty felons, and twelve for misdemeanors, all promiscuously crowded together ! The Debtors’ Ward, or day-room, opens into the court-yard, and is 17 feet by 9 feet b. Above stairs is a sleeping-room for female debtors. The Corporation allows a wooden bedstead, with straw in sacking bed, and a rug, each. In the Keepers house are five rooms with beds, for which those who can afford it pay 6d. per night. The Act and Clauses are hung up. A new Gaol was greatly wanted, and is now (1807) nearly finished.

448 Account of prisons for debtors

POULTRY COMPTER; London.

Gaoler, Edward Kirbi/.

Salary, ISO/, of which 150/. paid by the Court of Aldermen, and 30/. by the Common Council.

Fees. See the Table.

Garnish, 45. 8d. called cc Ward Dues; ' and paid for coals and candles, to the Steward.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Davis.

Duty, Sunday, Prayers and Sermon.

Salary, 50l.

Surgeon, Mr. Hodgson.

Salary, So/, for the two Compters, and Lud-" gate, debtors and felons.

Number of Debtors,

1800, April 21st, - 32 0 ao Nov. 13th, - 33

1801, Dec. 3d, 3d 180G, May 24th, - 3f>

1802, May 3d, - 34 1807, Feb. lbth, - 37

1803, Nov. 12th, - 34 180S, March 12th, - 0

1804, Dec. 15th, - 39

Allowance. To poor debtors, ten ounces of bread, and one pound of potatoes each, daily. Also six stone (48 lbs.) of beef, divided amongst

them

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 449

them every Saturday; besides a quantity of broken victuals, collected from the different taverns and eating-houses about the Royal Exchange. For Legacies, and other Donations, see Remarks.

REMARKS.

In a former edition of this work, I have spoken of this ruinou*receptacle for debtors, felons and other criminal prisoners, as it once stood, in spite of age and debility. Its whole history is now' singular; and it must, hereafter, become incredible, whenever its locality is considered to have been in the centre and very heart of the British Metropolis !

For Master’s-side debtors heretofore there were fifteen rooms betwixt the inner and the outer rates;

O *

for the use of which each prisoner paid as per Table. For Common-side debtors, six wards within the inner gate; two of them on the ground-floor, called the Kings Ward, and the Princes Ward; in the former of which, Nov. 12th 1803, were seven debtors, and in the latter the same.number. »

On the first floor, or story, were the Womens Ward, with two debtors; the Middle Ward (so called, as I conceive, from its being between the women’s and jews’ ward) containing six debtors; and the Jeics’ Ward, in which were two jew debtors,

F r with

450 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DRIiTORS

with a separate staircase leading to it. This,

let me pointedly observe, is the only prison 1 ever visited, in which persons of their persuasion were allowed to have the generous, humane, and just indulgence of being kept entirely distinct from the other prisoners:And very sincerely do I hope, that, in the projected change and improvement of th is building, some similar allotment will be assigned, of a place of retirement, security and comfort, for debtors, or others, of their peculiar description. Reason suggests the motive for such a hint; and Christian principle sanctions its adoption. It may easily be done, as no great space will be requisite.

On the second story, ' or floor above, were also the Queens Ward, which had ten debtors; and a small room adjoining to it for the sick.

The 34 debtors whom I found here at my visits, had ten wives and fifteen children living with them in the prison. All are allowed one rug each by the City, but are expected to provide their own beds.

To each ward there is a fire-place. In one of the rooms on the second floor, called the Pump-room, the debtors had the convenience of water. The court-yard here is very small, paved with flag-stones, and had water continually running through it. I11 the passage-court was a day-room for felons, and a

small

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

451

small one adjoining to it for debtors. They have iron-grated windows, opposite the public house, kept within the gates of the prison; and from which they were constantly supplied with liquor.

Men Felons slept in two “ Strong Rooms," planked with oak, and studded with large broadheaded nails, on boards raised about three feet from the ground; having each a rug allowed them:And upstairs was another large room for men, and one for women.

The Chapel, which was below, had a gallery for Master’s-side debtors; and the felons, and other criminals, were seated on forms or benches in the area beneath.

At the top of the whole building are spacious leads, where the Master’s-side debtors were occasionally allowed to take the air. The Keeper, however, or Turnkey, was always with them; because the adjacent houses were thought capable of furnishing the ready means for escape.

SUCH was this prison in the year 1893; but the building being in a very dilapidated state, and in many parts sheared up with props, it became at length so dangerous, not only to the lives of the prisoners, but of other persons resorting thither, that in July 1804,

F? 2 an

452

ACCOUNT or PRISON'S FOR DEI5TORS

an Act passed, (with a degree of uncommon expedition, suited to the supposed pressure of the occasion,) for the removal of <c all the Debtors and Prisoners :{ here in custody to the Giltspur Street Compter, or iC to such other safe, secure, and convenient place :c within the City, as should be approved of by the

Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Commons thereof, in “ Common Council assembled.” It was also ordained to “ be lawful for the Sheriffs, from time to c: time, and until the Poultry Compter shall have kfbeen rebuilt, or made secure, and Jit, and com-“ modious for the reception of prisoners, or another of Compter shall be provided, to receive, keep, and <c detain them in such'place of intended removal.” This took place in consequence without delay, and prisoners continued to be receieved in the Giltspur Street Compter till the 20th of May 1805; when the very crowded state of that temporary receptacle occasioned a necessity of sending all the ?iight-charges to their old place of destination in the Poultry.

Nor was this step sufficiently adequate; for in August 180G, the Giltspur Street Compter ’not being found large enough to contain the criminal prisoners of both Gaols, they likewise were re-con-signed to the Poultry. This ruinous and tottering

o o

pile, therefore, (so long before deemed hardly tenable) has now, for above eighteen months, been made the

only

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

453

only place of confinement for the criminals of the two Compters; and the Chapel of the present, being turned into a sleeping room, for want of space, no divine service is performed there.

The result is, that Gi/t-spar Street Compter is now wholly appropriated to the confinement of the debtors only belonging to both prisons, until a new Poultry Compter shall be provided, or the old one rendered of safe, ” for we can hardly say, “jit, and commodious for the reception of prisoners.”

More than three years have now Elapsed:the circumstances above narrated are matter of notoriety; and yet, how little, if any thing is done !! !

The two rooms already mentioned, as fronting the public house, the one set apart for debtors, the other for felons, are at present both shut up:and the Queens JVurd, with nearly the whole East end of the prison, have been taken down, to prevent their falling.

Master’s-side felons, or those who can pay for beds, sleep in strong-rooms above stairs, to which the access is from the Keeper's house.

Common-side felons have, within the wooden gate, a small court, paved with flag-stones, and a miserable room, called the Rut Hole, with an iron-grated unglazed window; and two dismal cells to sleep in, upon boards raised about a yard from the floor, with a run; or two each. according to their

number,

454

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

number, but no straw. One of these cells is for four prisoners, and the other for two:Above which are two other rooms, of a similar description. The Chapel, since its conversion into a dormitory, has barrack bedsteads laid on the floor.

The women felons are shut up in a dreary place below, called the Mouse-hole. This will hold sixteen prisoners, and is fitted up in the same manner as the above are for the men. Over it is that which was formerly called the Jews' Ward for debtors, but now set apart for the sick.

TABLE OF FEES, to be taken from Debtors in the Poultry Compter; as settled by the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen:

I 5. d.

Master’s-side debtors pay on coming in, 55.

- to the Keeper, and 25. to the Turnkeys 0 1 0

Common-side debtors pay nothing on coming in 0 0 0

Common-side debtors pay on discharge 205. 8cl. which is disposed of as follows:to the Keeper 75. at the Sheriff’s office, Poultry, 35. h</. at the Sheriff’s otfice, Giltspur Street, U. at the Secondary’s office, Lothbury, 65. to the turnkeys 25. and messenger I5. - 10 8

Master’s-side debtors pay on discharge 15. more

than Common-side debtors - 118

Master’s-side debtors pay for the use of a room,

bed, bedding, sheets, &c. per week - 0 2 6

List

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES

List of Legacies and Donations to the Poultry Compter, .

Christmas Quarter.

When paid.

Donors’ Names.

By whom paid.

Amount.

Half-Yearly.

Ditto -

Yearly -

Ditto.

Ditto -

Half-Yearly..,

Yearly -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Quarterly -

Yearly -

Every 3 year;

Quarterly -

Ditto -

Ditto - ....

Mr. Peter Bluudell

Ditto -

Sir James Peachy..

Mr, Ralph Carter.,

Sir John Kendrick, Ivnt Sir Wm. Middleton, Ivnt

Sir Robert Rampson..

Arehbp. of Canterbury Mr. John Shields -

Mr. Thomas Dawson - Mrs. Mary Ilolligrave..

Mr. James llodgson -

Mr. Win. Parker -

Mr. Wm. Peake -

Mr. John Wooller -

Mr. Thomas Stretchly..

Mr. John Meridith -

Ditto -

Ditto -

Drapers Company’....

Fishmongers Company.

Excise OHice -

^ ChurchwardcnsofSt-. \Andrew Undershaft/ <and Allhallows, oue> / year beef, and the \ C other money '

Drapers Company -

Chamberlain of London 5 Mr. Buckeridge, 13, }

I Orehard-st, Oxf. ro. £

At Lambeth Palace -

Cooks Company’.......

\ Churchwardens of '(

^ St. Ethelburgh £ C’lotlnvorkers Coni], any.. { Churchwardens of 1 I St. Sepulchre's £ Merchant TaylorsComp. t 1 /. 10s. Mr.Dunnage)

I (pays land tax, 6s.) \ MerchantTaylors Comp.

Christ’s Hospital -

skinners Company -

Leathersellers Company’ Ditto, "doz. penny loaves

1 0 0

1 0 0

1 0 0

0 17 3

2 0 0

i 11 3

0 10 0

1 0 0

o 0 0

0 9 0

0 5 0

0 10 0 '

o 0 0

1 4 0

1 0 0

o 0 0

0 5 6

0 4 10

18 16 10

Annually, on the 5th of November, the Gift of Mrs. Margaret Dane, one quarter of beef, and five doz.en penny loaves.

Lady

456 ACCOUNT or PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Lady-Day Quarter.

When paid.

Half-Yearly.

Yearly -

Ditto.'....

Diuo -

Donors’ Names.

.Sir Francis Clark -

R. Martin and J. March

Sir Thos. Cullunt -

Sir Edw. Corbett -

Ditto

Richard Jacobs, 21.

Half-Yearly - Lady Ramsay -

Quarterly - Mr. Wm, Peake, 10r.

Yearly -

Quarterly

Yearly___

Quarterly Ditto -

Mrs. Joan Sanback..

Mr. John Meridith - Alderman J. Haydon

Ditto -

Ditto -

By whom paid.

Amount.

Mercers Company -

Ditto -

Drapers ditto -

Cooks ditto -

Mrs. Starling; paid from the rent of houses in Lamb’s Conduit-street.

(Pays land tax, Sr.)

Christ’s Hospital -

Mr. Dunnage; paid from the ground rent of some houses in Gloucester-street, Hoxton.

(Pays land tax, 6s.) Churchwardens of St. Bride’s

Skinners’ Company -

Mercers ditto -

heathersellers ditto - , Ditto, 7doz.pennyloavcs

5 0 0

1 2 6 3 0 0

2 0 0

1 12 0

1 5 0

1 4 0

1 0 0

0 5 6 4 0 0 0 4 10

£.20 13 10

Midsummer Quarter.

When paid. Donors’ Names. By whom paid. Amount.

Yearly Half-Yearly - Sir Thos. Gresham, Knt. Mr. Peter Blundell Mercers Company Drapers diuo 10 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 111 3 0 5 6 1 4 0 0 4 10

Ditto Quarterly Ditto irWin. Middleton, Knt. Mr. John Meridith Chamberlain of London Skinners Company t Mr. Dunnage (pays } £ land tax, 6j.) \ L^atherscllc-rs Company Ditto, 7doz. pennyloaves.

Ditto Ditto

£. 15 5 7

The Drapers’ Company allow annually fourteen pounds for the discharge of small debts, to the amount of forty shillings each, fees included, the gift of Mr. John Kendrick.

Michaelmas

457

IN' ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

Michaelmas Quarter.

When paid. Donors’ Names. By whom paid. Amount.

5 0 0

Ditto 1 2 6

4 6 8

C Interest on I

Ditto d 247/. 18, . ?rf. t Mercers Company 7 3 9

(S. S. Annuities.)

Half-Yearly - Lady Ramsay 1 5 0

Quarterly Mr. Wm. Peake, 1/. 10»-. 5 Mr. Dunnage (pays)\ land tax, 6s). £ 1 4 0

Ditto 0 5 6

0 4 10

9itto Ditto, 7doz.pennyloaves.

£. 20 17 3

Sheriffs’ Court, two pence each judgment, from the Clerk of the Judgments, Mr. Iligden, Curriers Hall, at Christmas,

The prisoners receive 65 penny loaves every eight weeks, as the gift of Mrs. Margaret Symcott; but which, js Eleanor Gwyn's gift under that name.

N.B. Master's-side Debtors partake of no Charity, except it be particularly ordered by the donor.

The Public House within the passage leading to this prison, is rented from the City at Thirty Pounds per annum. I was constantly assured that it had nothing to do with the Compter, although I as constantly saw that the iron-grated rooms of the Debtors and Felons were supplied from thence with liquors, the windows of both being opposite to it. It is worthy of remark, that this public-house was shut up, as soon as the Poultry prisoners were removed to Giltspur Street Compter, but was opened again immediately, on their being returned hither.

458

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

PRESTEIGN, Radnorshire, South I Fates.

Gaoler, Robert Lewis. Salary, 20L Fees, 6s. Sd. No Table.

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Smith. Salary, 10l.

Duty, Prayers once or twice a week, as required; and a sermon four times a year.

Surgeon, Mr. Coohscy; for felons only.

Salary, 10l.

Number of Debtors, (1801’ Nov- 14th’ " 5

L 1803, Sept. 9th, - S

Allowance. A sixpenny loaf every other day. REMARKS.

k

This Gaol adjoins the County Bridewell. Besides the Keeper’s apartments here are five rooms, about 12 feet square, for debtors, to which the Keeper furnishes beds at is. 6d. j)er week; and if two sleep together, Is. each. Common-side debtors have a free ward, and straw is furnished by the County. 'The day-room, or hall, is 22 feet by 14, and used as a chapel. Act and Clauses both hungup: a useless tub for a bath. The Gaol seldom visited, very dirty, and out of repair. Only one court-yard, 66 feet by 46, for men and women, debtors, felons, and all descriptions of prisoners.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

459

READING, Berkshire.

Gaoler, George Eastajf.

Salary, 2001. for gaol and bridewell.

Fees. See Table. The Under-sheriff demands 3$. 6d. for his liberate.

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Hodgkinson. Salary, 50l.

Duty, Sunday, Prayers and Sermon, and Wednesday, Prayers.

Surgeon, Mr. Bulley.

Salary, 20l. for gaol and bridewell, debtors and felons.

pi800, March 24th, - 10

Number of Debtors, < 1801, Dec. 12th, - 12

llSod, Oct. ldth, - 8

Allowance. Ten ounces of bread, half a pound of rice, or two pound of potatoes, to each debtor, daily, on proof of his being a pauper, and willing to work *.

* This was the allowance in 1801:but on my subsequent visits I found it altered to a contract with the Gaoler, who receives 5d. per day, and 4d. per week each; for which he supplies the prisoners on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, with il lb. of bread; Thursday, 2 lb. of meat, and 1 lb. of potatoes, made into soup; Friday and Saturday, i£ lb. of bread j and on Sunday (for which the additional 4th is allowed), with a dinner of offal meat, made into soup, with vegetables.

4^0 ACCOUNT or PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

REMARKS.

This Gaol and Bridewell is situated in a very healthy place, a little way out of the town, and enclosed by a boundary wall, 210 feet in length, and 327 in depth; which, being about 30 feet from the prison, the Keeper has within it a very convenient garden for the growth of vegetables. The wall which encloses the buildings is 28 feet high, with a chevaux dc frise about four feet from the coping. The Keeper’s house, in the centre, has an alarm-bell at the top, and the visiting Magistrates* committee-room fronts the entrance-gate.

The men-debtors have two courts:The front is 69 feet by 57; the back yard 28 feet by 9, with arcades to both. They have also a hall, or common day-room, with two iron-grated glazed windows, a fire-place, seats, two tables, ' and proper conveniences for frugal cookery. Here are likewise two day-rooms for debtors, who maintain themselves; over which are six sleeping-rooms, fitted up with wood bedsteads, and sacking bottoms, a straw-in-sacking bed, a sheet, a blanket, and two rugs, at the county cost. Those who furnish their own beds are not charged for room-rent; and there are accommodations in the Gaoler’s house for those who can pay as per Table.

Every debtor inclined to work may be employed, on application to the Keeper, and allowing him one third of his earnings. But if the debtor can procure

work

in England, Scotland, and walls. 46*1

Work from without, lie receives the whole of what he earns.

Women-debtors have a small garden to walk in, about 14 yards square, and a sleeping-room, lb feet by <}, fitted up like the men’s; or, if they can pay as per Table, they mav be accommodated in the Keeper’s house; at the hack of which, in the centre of a spacious court, is the Chapel, a very neat building. The debtors are seated in the galleries, and the felons, See. below: and all are required to attend divine service who receive the county allowance. Above the chapel are rooms furnished by the Keeper with beds, at 2s. 6d. per week each; of which the county receives 1 s. Gd.. There are a warm and cold bath, and four separate infirmary-rooms. The Act and Clauses conspicuously hung up:the •courts well supplied with water; and the prison clean.-

The worthy Chaplain is empowered to purchase books of moral and religious instruction, and distributes them at his discretion to the prisoners.

Mrs. Elizabeth Deane (who died on the 5th ..July 1787) widow of II. A. Deane, Esq. late of Heading, by will bequeathed 15Ol. to the Corporation, upon trust to buy fire-wood for the County-gaol. Accordingly, on the 24th November 1787, with this legacy 156*/. 1 Js. 3d. was purchased in the per ceuts; and the dividends arising are to be laid out in the purchase of fire-wood, c<r for the

e: sole

4 62

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

<e sole use and benefit of the prisoners, who shall from u time to time be confined in the county-gaol of tc Berkshire, situate in Reading.” This is regularly received, and appropriated according to the will of the donor.

u Table of Fees to be paid by the Debtors.

s. d«

For discharging every action upon Process,

Capias, Latitat, or execution, -26

For Certificate of the want of a declaration, in order to sue out a writ of supersedeas, 2 6

N. 13. The above demandable of the prisoner.

For receiving every declaration against a prisoner in custody, - 10

For each copy of the three first warrants against

a Prisoner, - - 10

And for each other, - 0 4

N.B. To be paid by persons making the declaration, or demanding the warrant.

Attending upon every prisoner to give bail, special bail, Habeas, or other necessary at* tendance out of the gaol, as directed by statute, per mile, - 10

Every person confined in the Sheriff’s, or Magistrates’ Ward, finding his own bedding, per week, - - 10

Every person confined in the Sheriff’s, or Magistrates’ Ward, with bedding allowed by the County, - 2 6

Every

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 4Gg

s. d

Every prisoner occupying a room in the Keeper’s house, shall pay per week, - 2 G

A. MACDONALD,

J. heath.

Every Prisoner v.rho, during his confinement, shall have submitted to the regulations with a decent respect and attention, and who has not been guilty of swearing or drunkenness, of any attempt to acquire more liquors than is allowed, or of other disorderly practices, shall receive a certificate of such good conduct from the Chaplain, or any one visiting Justice, or the Chaplain and Governor; which certificate shall be a discharge of all and every fee payable to the Keeper or Gaoler, except those for extra bedding, and for the room in the Keeper’s house.

Extract from the Hides and Orders settled by the Magistrates, Mi July, 1796.

READING, Town Gaol.

Gaoler, Thomas-JMoore Davies, Serjeant at Mace. Salary, <)l. Fees, none.

One room in a public-house (the Five Maidens' Heads). Out of repair, and a new one building.

40'4

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DERTOK5

RICHMOND; Yorkshire.

The Liberty Gaol. For Debtors only.

Keeper, Robert JVright.

Salary, 5 /.

Fees, 6s. 8d.; and Is. to the Turnkey:Besides which the Under-sheriff demands three shillings for his liberate !

Garnish, 2s. 4d. I copied the following order from a Table of Fees hung up in the Prison. It is dated 17th August 1G71, and signed IV. IVylde and T. Lyttelton:

“ Every person, or persons, that shall be *c committed upon any warrant, upon fc his, her, or their commitment to cc gaol, shall pay to the rest of the pri-“ soners 2.9. 4d. for their garnish."

Chaplain, or Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors, (1802’ ^th> ‘ 4

L Sept. 4th, - s

Allowance, one shilling per week to those who are certificated as paupers.

REMARKS.

This prison, for the very extensive Liberty of Richmond and Richmondshire, was formerly the

property

IN ENGLAND^ SCOTLAND; AND WALES. 4&5

property of Lord Iiolderness, afterwards of Sir Thomas Dundas, and now belongs to the Duke of Leeds. It is solely appropriated to debtors.

It consists of two courts:the outer, of 2p yards by 13, is occupied by the keepers garden:the walls but six feet high; so that those only, who are detained for small sums, and in whom the gaoler places confidence, can be indulged with the use of so beneficial an accommodation *

The inner court is 21 yards by eight, and has a well in it. The prisoners have a day-room, with a large work or sleeping-room, which opens into the court. This is a free ivard, for which they pay nothing, but find their own beds. There is likewise a free-ward for women in the keeper’s house.

Master’s-side debtors have good rooms in the house; to which the keeper furnishes bed and lodging at 2s. 6d. per week; or, if the debtor finds his own bedding, he pays 2s. per week *

The poorer class have beds supplied by the keeper at Is. 6d. per week; and all have the use of the gaoler’s fire. As the County allows no fuel, it is a very fortunate circumstance that the keeper is compassionate and humane, for his salary is evidently not sufficient to provide coals even for his own use.

The prison is clean. Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are hung up.

G G

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

RICHMOND, Corporation cn' Borough GaoL

Gaoler, Thomas Bedford. Salary, 5 /.

Fees, Gs. 8 d.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Sept. 4th, none.

Allowance, none.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is likewise the poor house; placed in a fine situation, with a corn-field in front.

For debtors here are two good rooms, if properly ventilated, upstairs. These are free icards, in case the debtor finds his own bed; but if the Gaoler furnishes one, his charge is 2s. per week. To this prison all those debtors are consigned, who are arrested by process issuing out of the Borough Court.

For felons there are two cells, ill-ventilated, of about four yards square, with straw to lie upon. Each cell is lighted by a semicircular window, and has a small court attached to it, separated from that of the Poor-house by a wall. The criminal is let down into his cell, through a trap-door in the flooring above; and the ladder, of seven rounds, or staves, is then drawn up!

Here is no employment. No water accessible to prisoners. Neither the Act nor Clauses hung up. The Gaol very clean.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 4G7

RIPON, Yorkshire; Liberty Gaol.

(jaoler, Robert Braithwaite, SherifTs Officer. Salary, none. Fees, 10a\ Gd.

Surgeon, when wanted, sent by the Mayor, and paid by the Liberty.

Prisoners, Sept. 3d, IS02, none. Allowance, none.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is the property of the Archbishop, by charter from King Edward IV. His court, adjoining, is called the Court Military. The liberty includes 24 parishes. For debtors here are four good rooms in the keeper’s house, and a large room for the Grand Jury, to which the ascent is by 12 stone steps. This is called the High Gaol. No free ward. If the debtor furnishes his bed, he pays Is. per week; if the keeper provides one, each debtor pays 2s. per week.

On the ground floor, called the Low Gaol, are two cells for felons, dark, damp, and offensive; one 5 yards by 2f, ventilated by a small iron-grating in the door; the other, about four yards and a half square, has a small iron-grated and glazed window. Straw on the floor. No sewer. No water. The Act and Clauses conspicuously hung up.

The court spacious and airy, being 80 yards by 50; but the wall is only six feet high, so that the prisoners have no use of it.

G G

468 ACCOUNT OF rRISONS FOR DEBTORS

RIPOX, Gaol and Bridewell.

Gaoler, George Idle, a Sheriff's officer.

Salary, 211.

Fees, Debtors, 15s. 4d. No Table.

Surgeon, none. When one is wanted, he is ordered by the Mayor.

Number of Debtors, Sept, gd, 1802, none.

Allowance, none.

REMARKS.

This gaol for the Canon Fee Court, belongs to the Dean and Chapter of Ripon. It is npt only a gaol for that court, but a house of correction for the Liberty. Three upper rooms for debtors, but no free ward. If the debtor finds his own bed, he pays 6d. a week; if the keeper furnishes a bed, each debtor pays is. 6d. per week.

The Bridewell part, two rooms on the ground-floor, 8 feet by I, one of which is totally dark, the other has no light but what is admitted through a small hole in the door. No court. No water.

Neither the Act for the Preservation of Health, nor the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors are hung up. The whole prison very dirty. No religious attentions whatever.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 40'fl

ROCHESTER, Kent.

City Gaol.

Gaoler, Edmund Baker.

Salary, 301, as Serjeant at Mace. Fees, none.

Surgeon, Mr. Thompson: makes a bill.

r\ 800, April 21st, - 1

Number of Debtors, < 1801, Sept. 20th, - O

11804, Sept. 25th, - 1

Allowance, Sixpence per day;

REMARKS;

Two close offensive cells on the ground-floor, 15 feet by 5 feet 6‘ inches, with a bedstead in each. No sewer. No court-yard. No light, nor air, but what is admitted through the iron-grated door. No water.

o ©

One room in the keeper’s house (10 feet by 9), for such debtors as can pay. This prison, not being large enough at my visit in 1804, I found a woman debtor in one cell, three felons in the other cell, and a woman, with a child at her breast, and also a boy, confined in the house.

I was informed that the city intended to build a new gaol; but at my visit in 1807, I found this wretched prison continued as the sole place of coni finement for debtors and felons.

470 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

ROTHWELL, near Leeds; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, William Carrett, who is also Chief Bailiff of the Honour of Pontefract.

Salary, none. Being obliged to provide a prison for debtors, he rents this building of Mr. Wilson, of Loft us, in this parish, at l8/, per annum.

Fees; see Table.

Garnish, 6s. 2d. which is spent in liquor t

Chaplain, or Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors,

1800, May 18th, - 31 1804, Jan. 18th, - 30

1802, Aug. ldth, - 30 1807, March 17th, 32

Allowance, none whatever.

REMARKS.

This prison, for debtors only, belongs to the Liberty of the Honour of Pontefract, in the dutchy-court of Lancaster. There is only one court both for men and women, about 30 yards by 14, which is not paved, and has a pump and sewer in it.

Here are two day-rooms, one about six yards, the other about five yards square. Common-side debtors have seven rooms, with beds and bedding, furnished by the Keeper, as per Table.

Master’s

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

471

Master’s-side debtors have six rooms, with bedding supplied by the gaoler to each prisoner also, as per Table.

There is one room upstairs for women, with two beds in it. At the top of the house is a work-room, with spinning wheels, and looms for weaving, &c.

The average number of prisoners confined here is 36: they are principally mechanics and manufacturers from Leeds and Huddersfield. No employment is furnished; and only four were able to procure work when I was here in August 1802. Without firing in Winter, without any allowance of food, except casual charity, the distress of the poor debtors must at times be very great.

I cannot omit the Fees to be paid in this private

prison at Rotlnveil, because some of them are high.

It is much to be regretted that they are not abolished,

and a proper salary allowed to the Gaoler, in lieu

thereof. The document is curious.

West-Riding At the Michaelmas General Quarter Ses-of Yorkshire. i sions, held at Leeds, the 4th of October, in the 44th of George III. 1804. Before Michael-Angelo Taylor, William Dawson, Esquires, and others, their Fellows, of our said Lord the King, &c.

Orders and Fees.

£, s. d.

Even7 commitment fee - 0 9 4

Every person shall pay for his bed in the rooms No. l, 2, 3, and 4, per night,

0 0 6 If

4 72

ACCOUNT OF TRlSONS FOR DEBTORS

If two persons sleep together in No, 1, 2, 3, and 4, to pay each per night Ever}* person sleeping alone in the Low Gaol to pay per night -If two or more sleep together, to pay each Persons bringing their own beds to pay half the sum they would otherwise have paid, if they had used the gaol beds.—Persons coming to visit the prisoners, and sleeping in the gaol, to pay per night One fee only shall be taken by the gaoler for any prisoner’s discharge, although there may have been more than one action against him or her; which fee'shall be And the turnkey For allowing every sbpersedeas in every action -

For allowing every writ of Habeas Corpus, besides conduct money, to be paid and allowed according to the distance from the said gaol to the place where the body is to be removed -

/. 5. d.

0 0 4

0 0 4

0 Q 2£

0 0 C

0 17 4

0 1 0

0 6 S

0 G S

No prisoner allowed to stop in the kitchen, without the consent of the gaoler. All persons in the Low Gaol must clean their own apartments, and make their own beds:Every prisoner shall have the liberty to provide necessaries from any person or place whatsoever:Every prisoner within the gaol of Ilcthwell, who shall use any unlawful swearing, cursing, railing, or other indecent behaviour, sltail forfeit for every such offence twelve-pence, to be paid to the gaoler cr his deputy on demand:and in default of payment, to be levied by way of distress on the

Roods

o

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 4/3

goods of the party so offending, or stand in charge upon such prisoner, to be paid to the said gaoler, before he, she, or they be discharged out of custody:the said forfeitures to be distributed amongst the most needy in the Low Gaol, at the discretion of the gaoler.

That every prisoner who shall be suspected to break the gaol, and make his escape, and all others in the gaol who shall be suspected to be aiding and assisting therein, shall be by the gaoler ironed, to secure them from making their escapes.

And that, if the prisoners in the Low Gaol shall at any time mutiny against the gaoler, or his deputies, or servants going amongst them to regulate abuses, or any way disturb him or them; he or they shall, for every such offence, be kept in close confinement, at the discretion of the said gaoler.

All prisoners shall attend divine service every Sunday morning at eleven o’clock (except those unavoidably left to cook for themselves and messmates), or forfeit for each neglect one shilling, to be levied and applied in the manner before specified f.

By the Court, Foljambe,

Deputy Clerk of the Peace.

* This power lodged with a Gaoler is what I have no where met with, except at Halifax.

f There is neither Chaplain nor Chapel. The keeper told me he read prayers 3 and 1 was pleased with the manner in which the prisoners spoke of him 3 the more so as Mr. Carrctt was not present.

4/4 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

RUTHIN; Denbighshire.

Gaoler, Humphrey Jones.

Salary, 50l. and 71, in lieu of fees: But the Under-sheriff claims 3-y. 6d. for his liberate! Garnish, 2s. 6d,

Chaplain. Rev. Richard Jones.

Duty, every Sunday, Prayers and Sermon, % Salary, 30l.

Surgeon, Mr. Nichols. Salary, 30A

Number of Debtors,

f 1800, March 31st, -1 1802, October 29th,

5

4

Allowance. Two shillings per week each.

REMARKS.

This-Caol is also the County Bridewell. In front are the gaoler's aoartinents. Backwards, on the

O 1 '

ground-floor, is a day-room for debtors, 27 feet by 15; and another the same size for criminals: for the latter only cells, 7I feet by df; 2 on each side of a passage only 3 feet wide. The cells are arched with brick, and lined with oak-plank:in each a bedstead, with two blankets and a coverlet. A window in each, 3 feet by 1. In both debtors’ and felons' day-rooms are S cupboards, with separate locks and keys, to secure their provision. Above

are

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

475

are 9 rooms for debtors, about 13\ feet by llf, and a neat chapel. These are d\\ free-war ds, the County allowing to the keeper L?. per week for room-rent; but, if he furnishes a bed, each debtor pays Is. weekly for the use of it. I11 each of the debtors’ rooms are an iron-bedstead, two chairs, and a table. Here are separate Courts for debtors and criminals, about 29 yards by 14: in each a pump, with excellent water, and a bathing-room, with a copper, &c. No infirmary. Men and women, debtors'and felons, associate together daily. Act and Clauses hung up.

To the honour of the County, this gaol is undergoing very considerable improvements. New apartments are building for the gaoler; a separate kitchen, rooms, and court-yard, for female debtors; the like for female felons; an infirmary, with rooms above, for males and females; three penitentiary cells, each 10 feet by 6: and work-rooms for the prisoners; which, when finished, will make it very respectable.

At the front of the gaol, on an oval white marble, is this Inscription:

“ The Magistrates, sensible of the miserable state of the antient Prison, in compassion to the Unfortunate, caused this building to be erected, in the year MDCCLXXV.

J. Turner, Architect.”

ACCOUNT OF TRITONS FOR. DEBTORS

47 o

ST. ALBAN'S, Herts: Borough Gaol.

Gaoler, James Drayton.

Salary, 20l.

Surgeon, if wanted, is ordered by the Mayor, and makes a bill.

Allowance. None whatever to debtors. Felons and other criminal prisoners, have one pound of bread per day, cut from the Keepers loaf

REMARKS.

This Gaol is situate in the middle of the town. Those debtors who can pay, have very good lodging-rooms, and sometimes the use of the Town

£3 O 7

Hall, to which it adjoins, for air and exercise, there being no court-yard.

D

Debtors from the Courts of Conscience are confined in two very dirty, close, offensive rooms below, with an iron-grating toward the street. No fire-place. In these two rooms felons are also confined. Neither the Act for Preservation of Health, nor Clauses against Spirituous Liquors are hung up. Debtors remain here but a very short time. I have not met with one at my several visits during the last six years.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 4/7

ST. ALBAN’S, Liberty Gaol.

Gaoler, John Cooke. Salary 50/.

Surgeon, ordered by the Mayor, when wanted. Number of Debtors. Criminals.

iSoo, May 14th, one. - 2.

1801, Aug. 15th, none. - 5-

lS()2, Feb. 4th, none. - 4.

1804, Sept. 8th, none. - 2 *

1807, July 31st, none. - 3 *

Allowance. Debtors, none. Criminals, 1 lb. of bread per day; cut from the keeper's loaf, and which he furnishes out of his salary.

REMARKS.

T1 iis Liberty Gaol, for twenty-two parishes, is the property of Lord Salisbury. One court-yard, 36" feet by 30, with flagged floor, a pump and sewer, and a day-room about 12 feet square. A spacious airy room for debtors, with a fire-place, but no bedding, not even straw allowed. No Infirmary. Neither the Act nor Clauses hung up. For men criminals, four dark sleeping-cells, the largest 12 feet by 8, with straw on the boarded floor, a blanket and rug. Women criminals have a large room upstairs, with two sleeping-cells, 9 feet by 7. Under the gateway two offensive sleeping-rooms, one totally dark; the other has a post, to which refractory prisoners are chained.

4^S ACCOUNT OF FAISONS FOR DEBTORS

SAINT BRIAVEL’S GAOL.

Forest of Dean; Gloucestershire,

Gaoler, William Closs.

Salary, Fees, none.

, c T-i r. f 1804, Oct. 21st, - 1

Number 01 Debtors, < ’

I 1806, Sept, pth, - 2

Allowance, none whatever *

REMARKS.

This gaol, for Debtors only, is part of the old castle, within the Forest of Dean. The castle is the property of the crown; and was formerly surrounded by a moat, which enclosed about a quarter of an acre of ground. It is now held by lease, as I am informed, granted to Lord Berkeley, who is chief Ranger of the Forest, and Constable of the Castle.

Over the prison gateway is a painted board, inscribed “ The Castle Inn:Spirituous Liquors.” Company resort to it as to a common ale-house.

Here is one dismal room for men debtors above stairs, 17 feet 10 inches by lG feet eight; and another for the women; both greatly out of repair. No bedding allowed^ not even straw to sleep on: but

the

IK ENGLAND, SCOTLAND; AND WALLS. 479

the gaoler furnishes beds, at Is. per week; to those who can afford to pay for them.

Of the two poor objects; both sickly, whom I found here in 180(>, one was Richard Jordan, a labourer, who told me he had a wife and seven children; and that, since his confinement, three of them were sent to the work-house. IIis debt was for rent, 61. 5a.; Costs of prosecution, 5/. 11a. 6d.; Levy-pence 1.9s. 8d.; and bringing to gaol, 5a. So that the expence exceeded the debt by eleven shillings and two-pence! Such cases cannot be known to Earl Berkeley, who I understand seldom, if ever, visits the town.

This is the only gaol remaining in the respectable County of Gloucester, that, for construction and polity, is not worthy of imitation; and 1 have hopes that, through the humane exertions of the great presiding genius of reform here, Sir George Paul, the dreary abode in question will ere long be abolished.

No court-yard. No water, but what is brought by the gaoler.

Neither the Act for the preservation of Health, nor the salutary clauses against the use of Spirituous Liquors, are here hung up. The whole prison very dirty.

ST. PETER’S; see York.

480 ACCOUNT or trisons for. debtors

SALISBURY; Wiltshire.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Willis.

Salary, 150l.; and for turnkeys, 50L

Fees, l/. the first action; 10s. for every other; and Is. to the turnkey for every action: (No table.) Besides which, the Undersheriff demands 6s. 8d. for his liberate !

Garnish, 2s. master’s-side; and Is. the common-side.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Harrison.

Duty, Prayers and a Sermon every Sunday.

Salary, 50l.

Surgeon, Mr. Fisher. Salary, 211.

Number of Debtors,

1800, June 9th, - 17 1803, Oct. 26th, - itf 1802, Jan. 1st - 12’ 1806’, Oct. 6th, - 14

1807, Sept. 25th, 14-

Allowance. Formerly none; but in 1804 the Magistrates humanely allowed the common-side debtors if lb. of bread per day; and at Easter Sessions 1807 increased their allowance to 1| lb. It is sent in loaves from the baker’s, and I found them full weight.

IX ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AX'D WALES. '

481

REMARKS.

The prison in this city, called Flsherton Anger Gaul (from the name of the parish in which it stands) near a fine stream, is also one of the County-Bridewells. On the outer gate, towards the street, is painted “ Pray remember the Poor Debtors Box."

The debtors’ court-yard, which is separated from that of the felons by a double iron palisade, placed at such a distance as to prevent their conversing with each other, is sufficiently large to admit of the debtors’ playing at tennis, fives, &c. There is no day-room either for them or felons; but two might be very conveniently made, where the cart-house and stables now stand.

For master’s-side debtors there are four rooms in the keeper’s house; one of which, 17 feet square, has a fire-place in it, and four beds, at 2s. 6d. per week:two sleep in a bed. If any debtor has a room anti bed to himself, he pays 5s. per week. Common-side debtors have only one room to eat and sleep in, size 20 feet by l6\ formerly without bedding, or even straw: but in 1804 the County humanely allowed a straw in canvas bed, and two blankets to every poor debtor, gratis. There is a ^replace, but no firing allowed; the room was extremely dirty, not having been white-washed many years. Over this are two rooms (to which the

H h ascent

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS TOR DEBTORS

4S2

ascent is by a stone staircase from the court-yard) set apart for infirmaries: These also have fire-places, but were equally dirty, and filled with lumber: in the smaller room women-debtors are confined. At my visit in 180/ I found this room clean, and a woman in it.

Twenty pounds a year of the Chaplain’s salary are paid by Lord JTeymouth, as the bequest of Thomas Thymic, Esq. who bound for the payment the manor of Wrobly and Ross, in the County of Hereford. The bequest was recognized by his Lordship in a deed of settlement, dated s2cl November l/0p< The Rishop of Salisbury sends every Christmas 40s. worth of meat, and c20s. worth of bread. Lord Pcmhrohe pays a legacy of 5/. a year, out of the, manor of Swallow Cliff’ in this County; part to the chaplain himself; viz. a guinea for a hat; the remainder to be by him distributed amongst every description of prisoners. One pound fifteen shillings, being the interest of 50/. left by Mr. Smith of Salisbury, is likewise divided amongst them, in meat purchased by the keeper. No memorial of any legacy hung up in the gaol. Every Christmas one of the turnkeys goes through the city and adjacent parts with a box: the collection, when I was here in 1802, amounted to qL 1 S<y. 4d. which is laid out by the keeper (as he informed me) in purchasing meat for the felons.

Any

IN ENGLAND^ SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 483

Any debtor refusing to attend chapel is locked up during divine service:And it is the custom here

to lock every debtor in his room from two till four on a Sunday, that the turnkey may go to church.

The chapel, on the debtor’s side of the prison, has a pew for the gaoler, but no gallery: the felons sit on one side, the debtors on the other; and the women in the middle; in sight of, and almost close to, each other.

I could obtain no accounts of the several monies arising from donations since my visit in 1802. The Gaoler said they were lost or destroyed. From the only book extant, I copied as follows:

I. s. d.

31st Dec. 1806. Balance due to the prisoners, 1807. Collected by the turnkey’s 18 0 8f

box, - 10 8 0

Rev. Dr.Ekins, Dean of Sarum, 1 1 0

A Lady unknown. 1 1 0

Interest of Mrs. Smith’s legacy, 1 15 0

Grand Jury Lent Assize, Mr. Beeby, expences of a 1 13 6

prosecution, John Paul Paul, Lsq. High 1 1 0

May 7 th, Sheriff 1806, Members for the County, 5 5 0

51. 5s, ditto for City, ol. 5s. 10 10 0

Grand Jury Summer Assize, 1 5 6

£. 52 0 8f

11 11 2

There

4S4

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

There does not appear to be any examination made either into receipts or disbursements in this Gaol: the whole seems to rest with the Keeper.

I cannot close this account w ithout a few remarks on the Felons’ Gaol. Their cells are very damp; the lobbies; , or passages, only 3 feet wide. Young beginners and old offenders, vagrants and faulty apprentices, are alike confined here, and let out for air only one hour in the day. I happened to be there during that hour in January 1802: it was a heavy fall of snow, sleet, and rain, and most extremely cold; yet the prisoners, (17 felons and 7 for misdemeanors,) rushed out into the midst of it, eagerly gasping for a mouthful of fresh air. Some of them w ere cruelly ironed with fetters called bolts and sheers:With the former the prisoner cannot move either foot four inches before the other; but the latter having a joint in the middle, the prisoner can walk with difficulty, though his feet are kept both night andday thirteen inches asunder.

This wretched gaol is now (1807) presented:the County intend to build a new one; and it is to be hoped that Rules and Orders will be not only established, but enforced.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 4Sj

SCARBOROUGH; J orfa/iirc.

Town Gaol.

Gaoler, Mary Grant.

Salary, 20l.

Chaplain, none; nor any religions attentions whatever.

Surgeon, none. When one is wanted, he is paid by the town.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Aug. 28th, - 2.

Allowance, none, except certificated tf, paupers; and then, the same as the poor of their re-spcctive parishes.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is over the Newborough Gate, at the entrance into the town. The apartments below are occupied by washerwomen, employed by the gentry visiting this place, and the small court-yard is used to dry clothes in; so that the debtors have no use of it. The only place they have to walk in is a lobby, about , 0 yards long, and feet wide.

Debtors have four well-ventilated and airy sleeping-rooms, to three of which the keeper furm nes a bed, at 3^. per night each: the fourth is for those who find their own bed, and pay Gd. a week. No

water

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

4S 6

water accessible to the prisoners, nor any to the gaol, but what is bought. The Felons’ prison is upon the ground-floor, on the other side the gateway, and consists of four cells, about Q feet square and 7 feet high: two of these are dungeons, four steps below the ground, with straw on plank bedsteads, very damp and dirty, but whitewashed while I was there. The iron-grating of the farthest dungeon is just over an open and very offensive drain. A small court for the felons might be made from the waste ground adjoining:and the common sewer’s being arched over would make this part of the prison more healthy.

I copied the following Rules and Orders, which

were hung up in the gaol; viz.

General Quarter Sessions of the Peace, held in and for the Borough of Scarbro’ and Liberties thereof, in the Common Hull of the said Borough, on Tuesday 3d April, in the 6th year of the reign of our Sovereign Lord George II. and so forth.

Gaoler’s Fees I Settled in pursuance of the late Act of Parliament:

s. d.

For the discharge of every debtor, for the first action, 5 4

And for every other action - - 1 0

To the Turnkey, for the first action, 15. and for every other action, 6d. - 16

For the discharge of every person from the Session,

65. 8(1. and to the Turnkey, 15. - 7 8

For the first week’s diet of all the prisoners, - 7 0

. And

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 4Sf

And for £ill further time 3j>'. Grf. a week, or as the prisoner and gaoler can agree:but the gaoler is to permit the prisoner to provide his own meat alter the first week, if he pleases. For lodging, if the gaoler find bed, bedding, and sheets, for the" first night 6d. and for every other night 3d. If two in a bed, 3d. each:and every prisoner shall have the liberty of finding the same, if he think proper. The gaoler shall have the liberty, if he sec occasion, to have two beds in each room, but no more. Every prisoner committed from the bar by the Bailiffs shall pay the gaoler 5s. and the turnkey Is. Every person committed on suspicion of felony, or misdemeanour, 5s. and to the turnkey Is. For. allowing every supersedeas, in every action, Gs. 8d. For allowing every writ of Habeas Corpus, besides conduct-money to be paid and allowed, according to the distance from the said gaol to the place where the body is to be removed, 6s. Sd.

Perused, examined, and allowed by us, Henry Cotterill, and William Batty, csqrs. Bailiff’s of Scarbro’.

The Clauses against Spirituous Liquors were hung up, and underneath them was written:

“ Ordered, b\T the Bailiffs, that the gaoler do provide fresh water for the prisoners every morning, and that the same be placed in such convenient part of the gaol as the prisoners may have access to That such of the prisoners as are unable to work, or cannot find employment, and have no other means of subsistence, shall, on application to the magistrates, be supplied with provision from the poor-house.

John Travis, Town Clerk."

4oS

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

SHEFFIELD; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, Godfrey Fox. Salary, none.

Fees, in the High Court, for commitment, and turnkey, 1 /. 5.^. In the Low Court, 6d.

Garnish, 2s. 6d. for High Court debtors; Low Court debtors is. 2d. This is expended in coals, candles, and soap, for their mutual benefit.

Chaplain, none; nor any religious attention paid to the prisoners.

Surgeon. Mr. Moor house attends the sick in prison, as surgeon for the overseers of the poor, from whom he has a salary.

Number of Debtors, High Court. Low Court.

V—* CO 0 V—‘ Nov. 14th, - - 4. - 14.

1802, Aug. 14th, - 5- - 1 1 V—

1805, Mar. 30th, y / - - 15.

Allowance. None, but casual relief from the overseers of the poor to those who cannot work; in which case the Iligh-Court debtors have 3$. and Low-Court 2s. per week.

REMARKS.

Th is gaol, for the liberty of Hallamshire, is the property of the Duke of Norfolk, Chief Bailiff of that

liberty,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 48fl

liberty, and lord of the manor of Sheffield:It is for debtors only, and those of two descriptions, commonly called the IIigii Court and Low Court prisoners.

The High Court prisoners are detained for debts above ten pounds, by process from the courts at Westminster, directed to the chief bailiff of the liberty of Hallamshire, &c.; and are entitled to the same legal privileges as the prisoners in York Castle. They have a day-room, about five yards square, which has two window’s that look into the street: and four rooms upstairs, tw’o for men, and one for women to sleep in: the fourth is a workshop. The keeper furnishes beds at lop/. per week each; and two sleep in a bed.

The Low Court prisoners are detained for debts under 405. by virtue of a process from the court-baron of the manor of Sheffield, held under a particular act of parliament obtained for that purpose, directing that three months’ imprisonment shall discharge the prisoner from debt and costs, if the same be not sooner paid or satisfied. They have two rooms, about 5 yards by each, with fire-places:the iron-grated windows look into the court. In these they work and sleep, which makes them fiithy beyond description:and four rooms were lately added at the top of the house, one of which is for the women at night. Prisoners find their own straw and firing. The court-yard has a damp earth boor,

and

ACCOUNT OF PRISON'S FOR DFRTORS

40O

and is 36 feet by IS. It is the only one, and here the sexes associate together. At my visit on Sunday, 15th August 1802, the Low Court prisoners were busy sifting cinders in it; the ashes of which they sell for three shillings per load. There were then about two cartloads, which were to be fetched away next day. On conversing with the civil and communicative Gaoler, I found that their debts were frequently for the non-payment of alehouse-scores; and this I have observed to be the case in most lanre manufacturing towns, where idleness and drunkenness prevail. It would operate a good effect, if, in Hills for the recovery of small debts, there were a clause to prohibit arrests for those contracted in public-houses. The actions entered in Sheffield Court every three weeks are on an average three hundred! and, the gaol being small, it frequently happens that there are more warrants against the persons of defendants than can be executed between court-day and court-day.

Here is no difference in the length of time of commitment between one penny damages and 396'. 1 id.; to either of which the costs are always added, and are of the same amount; viz. ll. $s. 6d. on trial, and 17.V. 6d. on enquiry.

Water is accessible to all during the day, and to fill their pitchers at night.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

491

SHEFFIELD Town Gaol

The Lobbies under the Town-hall.

Three dark cells, which open into a narrow passage, the largest eight feet square, and six feet high. Each door has an aperture of six inches diameter. Plank bedsteads with straw. An offensive sewer in the corner of each cell. When the quarter-sessions are held at this town, offenders are locked up a night or two in this prison. I went into it (though in day-time) with a lighted candle.

Prisoners, 14th August, 1802, none.

SHEFFIELD GAOL,

for the Manor of Ecclesiiall, the property of Earl Fitzwilliam, built 1/22. Gaoler, William Needham. Salary, none.

Fees, on discharge, 6d. Garnish, Is. 2d. Allowance and Regulations, the same as for the Low Court debtors in the town.

A court, 18 yards by 15, with a pump: a day-room, about 14 yards square, in which debtors work; and two lodging-rooms, 6 yards by 3, with two large glazed windows. The rooms are partitioned off, to receive six debtors, singly, who find their own beds. The average number of prisoners here is five: There were none at my visit in August 1802.

492 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

SHREWSBURY, Shropshire.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, Richard Cartwright.

Salary", 300/. for gaol and bridewell.

Fees, as per Table:But the Under-sheriff demands a fee of js. 6d. upon discharge of common writ; and from those under execution Is. in the pound, if less than 100/. if above lOOl. then Gd. in the pound.

Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. W. G. Rowland. Salary, 70l.

Duty. Prayers on Thursday, and Sermon on Sundays, Good Friday, and Christmas-day.

Surgeon, Mr. William Thomas.

Salary, 50l. for debtors and felons.

r 1 BOO, May 2d, - 23

Number of Debtors, < 1802, Nov. 3d, - 12

11803, Sept, llth, - 11

Allowance. Debtors, 1 lb. 8 oz. of wheaten bread, made by the female convicts, and baked in the gaol. When wheat is at 11s. the strike (or bushel), a loaf of 1 lb. 8 oz. costs twopence half-penny.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 493

REMARKS.

This gaol, which is likewise the house of correction, is near the castle, and was first inhabited 1753-The boundary-wall encloses two acres of ground, and is lG fqet high. The entrance in front, is called the Porters Lodge, and over the gate is a bust of Mr. Howard. In the door are two apertures to receive donations, viz. “ To Debtors, in a state of Industry, ” and “ To Prisoners in a state of Reformation.” The ground-door, on the left, has the Turnkey’s apartments, and his sleeping-rooms are above. On the right hand is the Lazaretto, a hot and cold bath, with an oven to fumigate and purify prisoners’ clothes, which are taken from them on admission, and the gaol uniform put on.

Upstairs are two reception-rooms, a room for the irons, and a sitting-room (with a fire-place) for the Clergyman, where he performs his last offices to persons under sentence of death, who suffer on the flat roof above.

The court fronting the Keeper’s house is about 20 yards square, and the inner Turnkey’s lodge adjoins. Master’s-side debtors have a court-yard 36 feet square, a day-room 14 feet by 12, and eleven sleeping-rooms with boarded floors. They sleep single, and pay 4s. per week for County furniture; but if they find their own beck, 2s.per week.

494

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Common-side debtors have a court-yard 70 feet by 39, and a day-room 20 feet by 14, fourteen sleeping-cells 7 feet by 6, with arched roofs and boarded floors; to which the County allows a bedstead, a hair mattress, a pair of sheets, one blanket, and a rug in Summer, and two blankets in Winter. No firing allowed, except the debtor is very poor; but in severe weather they have frequently coals given them, the cost of which is only ~d. per hundred weight.

Table of Fees, to be paid by the Debtors in Shrewsbury County Gaol.

s. d.

tc For entering every action whereon each prisoner is broughtinto custody, either by Process, Capias,

Latitat, or Execution, - - 0 0

For discharging every action upon Process, Capias,

Latitat, or Execution, -26

For Certificate of the want of a declaration, &c. in order to sue out a writ of supersedeas, - 2 6

N.B. The following sums to be paid by persons delivering the declaration, or demanding the warrant respectively.

To the Turnkey, for receiving and entering every

declaration against a prisoner in custody, - I 0 For each of the three first causes against a prisoner, I O And for every other, - 0 4

Attending every prisoner to give bail, special bail, habeas corpus, or other necessary attendance

out

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 4'Jj

•out of the gaol, as directed by the statute, per mile, - -10

And no greater or other fee shall be taken by the governor front or on account of any prisoner.”

The name of every prisoner who does not attend Divine Service is inserted in a book kept for that purpose. A manufacturer is employed by the Count)-, with a salary of 40/. j)er annum, who furnishes work, and deducts one-third of the prisoners’ earnings, which is paid to the County-treasurer: but, if the Debtor can have the means of labour brought to him from without the prison, he receives the whole of his earnings. Female debtors have a court-yard, and eight sleeping-rooms, and are under the same regulations as the men.

Here is a detached Infirmary, with separate courts, two day-rooms, and four sleeping-rooms, for male and female sick prisoners, where extra food and wine are provided by direction of the surgeon. There are no sleeping-cells on the ground-floor.

The Chapel is in the centre of the building. The several classes enter at different doors, and are separated by partitions. Debtors are in the gallery, .

All the cells are well ventilated, and divided by passages 6 feet wide. The whole prison is amply supplied with spring water from a pump, and with river water thrown by a forcing engine into a large reservoir at the top. There are several work-rooms, , fer

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

for men and for women, with store-house, store-rooms, bake-house, bread-room, and wash-house. A watchman with his dog, goes round the prison, and cries the hour.

There is a committee-room for the Visiting Magistrates, who are appointed at the Sessions. The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are conspicuously hung up.

The whole prison is very clean, and has excellent Rules and Orders for its good government; some of which, however, do not appeal* to have been yet put in execution. For instance, I never heard of any School within the prison, nor of any prisoners’ being instructed by a School-master there.

When I attended divine service in September 1803* all the prisoners were present; their behaviour silent, and they were attentive to a very impressive discourse.

The employment here consists in making shoes, slippers, gloves, and bottle-stands. There are looms likewise for weavers, and the iron machinery for a corn-mill; but, for want of a pair of millstones, it is useless.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 4QJ

. SOUTHAMPTON; Hampshire.

Gaoler, Jeffery Truss; Serjeant at Macc.

Salary, none.

Fees, entrance 4s. discharge 20s. lirst action; IOj. the second, and every other action; and 2s. to the Turnkey. No table.

. Surgeon; , when wanted, sent by the Mayor.

/"1802, March 19th, - 4 Number of Debtors, <J 1803, Oct. 23d, - 1

11807, Sept. 22d, - 1

Allowance. Six pence a day to paupers; and a bushel of coals per week, for the whole prison.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, for debtors only, is a part of the old tower, at the lower end of the town. Here is a small court-yard, 46 feet by 36 *, well supplied with water, not paved, and ducks, fowls, &c. are kept in it. Two rooms with glazed windows and fire-places, 1(> feet by 12 each, to which the Corporation allows a wood bedstead, woollen mattress, two blankets, and a rug. A room at the top of the tower is furnished by the Keeper at 2s. 6d. per week. Act and Clauses not hung up.

I 1

49$ ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

STAFFORD.

Gaoler, John Harris. Salary, 2001.

Fees; see Table.

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Henry Rathhone.

Salary, 30l.

Duty, Prayers every Wednesday; and a Sermon every Sunday, Christmas-day, and Good Friday.

Surgeon, Mr. Hughes. Salary, 42l.

{}800, Nov. 19th, - 18

1802, Nov. 1st, - - 20 1805, Oct. 30th, - - 20

Allowance. To debtors who are poor, and have no work, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 4 lbs. of potatoes. Tuesday, 2 lbs. of bread and i lb. of cheese. Thursday 2 lbs. of bread. Saturday 3 lbs. of bread, and \ lb. of cheese, Sunday, meat and vegetables. N.B. Debtors who receive the Sixpences from their plaintiffs have no County Allowance.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 499

REMARKS.

This prison is surrounded by a boundary-wall, inclosing three acres of ground. In the centre (detached by a neat garden, of 30 yards by 14) is the gaoler’s house, through the hall of which lies the passage to every part of the prison. On the ground floor is the Visiting Magistrates’ Room, the Oaoler’s parlour and office, and a small room, used by the debtors to see their families and friends, no one being permit ted to go into their day-room, or court-yard. Behind the keeper’s house is the inner court, 0‘5 feet by 40, which leads to the men debtors’ day or mess-room, 30 feet by 2b, fitted up with two fire-places, coppers, &c. for the purposes of frugal cookery; and on each side are eight small work-rooms, and two narrow spaces, or slips, where the relations and friends of the prisoners are allowed to see them at stated times.

Men debtors have a spacious court, 56 yards by SO, the greater part of which they are allowed to cultivate for their own use, and there are arcades for their accommodation in wet weather. Near this are fifty sleeping-cells, each 9 feet by 8 feet 6, with arched roofs, well ventilated, and divided by passages, or lobbies, 6‘ feet wide. To each cell there is an iron bedstead, a straw mat. three blankets, and a coverlet, allowed by the County.

Female debtors have a separate court, 30 yards by 8, a day-room 24 feet by 15, and over it a sleeping-

room,

500 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

room, of the same size. They have the same allowance of bedding as the men, but their bedsteads are wood, with sacking bottoms.

On the first story is a neat chapel, properly pewed ofi ', to separate the sexes and the classes.

In the keepers house, on the second story, are two large rooms set apart for the sick.

There are about three acres of ground belonging to the gaol without the walls, which is cultivated with vegetables, for the use of the prison, by those who are sent to the House of Correction. Many parts of this gaol are very damp:the considerate Magistrates humanely allow to the men debtors’day-room 2 cwt. of coals per week, from the 1st-October to the 1st April, and 1 cwt. per week the remainder of the year:but, if the number of debtors exceed 20, they are allowed the above quantities to each fire-place in the room. Female debtors have 1 cwt. per week throughout the year.

Table of Fees.

£. s. d.

For entering the action wherein each prisoner is

brought into custody on any Writ or Process, 0 10 6

For every second, or other action, - -060

For the certificate of a declaration not having been delivered, in order to sue out a writ of Supersedeas, - - 06S

The above demandable of the prisoner.

For

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

501

£. s. d.

For receiving: and entering: every declaration

O O *

against a prisoner in custod}’, - - 0 2 0

For each copy of a warrant against a prisoner, 0 3 4

These to be paid by the persons delivering the declaration, or demanding a copy of the warrant. For attending upon every prisoner to give bail, or special bail, or on a Habeas Corpus, or on any other necessary occasion, out of the gaol, as directed by the statute, per mile, - - 0 1 0

No greater or other fee shall be taken by the keeper of the gaol. And all fees hitherto demandable by him from the county, shall totally cease and determine.

All the said fees (except for the keeper’s' attendance out of the gaol), when paid by any prisoner to the keeper, shall be accounted for by him to die public fund, in aid of the debtor’s maintenance.

Every prisoner, who, during his confinement, shall have duly submitted to the regulations, and who has not been guilty of swearing, drunkenness, or other disorderly conduct, shall receive a certificate of good behaviour from a visiting Justice, or from the Chaplain and Governor; which shall be a discharge of all fees payable to the keeper or gaoler.

Table of Charges for Lodging, Bedding, &c.

s. d.

Every person confined in the Sheriff’s Ward,

finding his own bedding, per week, - - 0 1 o

Every person, with bedding allowed by the Comity, 0 2 6

Every person occupying a room in the keeper’s

house, shall pay per week, - 0 2 6

If with bedding furnished by the keeper, - 0 4 0

“ The

502

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

“ The foregoing Rules and Regulations, for the

O O ~ '

<f government of the New Gaol for the County of ce Stafford, were approved and confirmed; and the Chairman was requested to lay the same before “ the Judges at the next assize.

J. Sparrow, Chairman." Stafford, 14 March, 1793 *

Allowed, J. Wilson,

N. Grose.”

The following Order was made and confirmed:

- “ That debtors shall be permitted to send for, or i(have brought to them, at seasonable hours, any' “ victuals or clothing; but, in respect to liquor, no prisoners shall be allowed either to send for or u to drink more than one pint of wine, or one quart of beer, in one day, or twenty-four hours: And “ if any prisoner shall be detected in making use of <(the name of any other prisoner, for the purpose of “ obtaining any greater quantity of wine, or beer, tc the prisoner consenting to lend his name, and the prisoner using it, shall be incapable of receiving (C a certificate of good behaviour; and the gaoler shall be required to remove them into the Sheriff’s se or common ward.”

Stafford, 1st August, l/pg, Allowed by us,

Kenyon,

N. Grose.” The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

503

The Rules and Orders (which are excellent) direct that a Journal shall be kept by the Chaplain and Surgeon, stating the times of their attendance, and observations; and books are provided for that purpose:But, I was sorry to observe a total neglect of attention to this very important branch of duty, no such entries having been made in the books for ten years past.

It appears, that on the 11th of October, 179G, there was a balance of 1/1A 5$. remaining in the hands of the County Treasurer, out of a sum which had been subscribed for the benefit of the unfortunate prisoners, at the time a fever raged in the old gaol: on which day Mr. Wright, the late County Treasurer, bought 300/. 3 per cent. Consols, in the name of Mr. Hinckley, the Clerk of the Teace. The dividends thereon have been regularly received, and applied to the use of th$ prisoners, under the direction of the visiting' Magistrates.

O O

The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are conspicuously hung up. So small a portion of the courtyards is paved, as to prevent this gaol from being kept properly clean.

504

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR PEETOP.S

SURRY COUNTY GAOL; Borough.

Gaoler, James Ives.

Salary, 300l.; and if the Debtors’ fees should not amount to an additional 1001, per annum, the County to make up the deficiency. Also for the Bridewell, 50/.

Fees; see Table. Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. William Mann.

Duty, every Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday.

Salary, 50l.; and as Secretary to the Visiting Committee, 30/.

Surgeons, Messrs. Saumarez and Dixon.

Salary, 75^- f°r prisoners of every description in the gaol and house of correction; and 5/. for travelling charges, to report, at the Quarter Sessions, the state of the prisoners.

Number of Debtors,

1800, April 15th, - 4 6 1804, Jan. 7th, - 44

0 CO r—4 June l6th, - 51 1805, Jan. 28th, - 32

1802, Dec. 28th, - 52 ISOG, ?day 27th, - 49

1803, Nov. 15th, - 1807, Oct. 2d, - - 3.8

Allowance. One pound of bread per day, to Common-side debtors only. Master’s side debtors have no allowance whatever,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

505

REMARKS.

This noble building does honour to the County of Surry. It is situate in an open and airy part of Horsemoiwer-lane, in the Borough of Southwark.

O-7 O

The boundary-wall encloses about three acres of ground:The Sessions-house adjoins it, to which there is a communication from the prison, and a housekeeper appointed to keep it clean, with a salary, and apartments for her use.

The Gaol, which is likewise the County Bridewell, was first inhabited the 3d of August 17.98, and has in front the Turnkey’s Lodge, on the ground-floor of which is a day-room; another room with a cold bath; and a third is the wash-house, with an oven, &c. Over these are four rooms, 18 feet by 15, for the turnkeys to sleep in; and at the top of all is a spacious lead-fiat, where criminals are executed. After passing through the lodge, an avenue paved with Yorkshire-stone leads onto the keeper’s house,

which is in the centre of the prison, and from which

the several court-yards are inspected.

For master’s-side debtors there is a court-yard paved with flag-stones, 75 feet by 30, enclosed by handsome iron-palisades, so that a thorough air is admitted:and arcades, paved in the same manner, 31 feet by 26, under which to walk in wet weather. Close to these is a day-room, 27 feet by 20, with a

fire-

jOS ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

fire-place; and they have likewise sixteen sleeping-rooms, each 14 feet 6 inches by 9 feet 3, with an iron-grated and glazed window. For these they pay as per Table here subjoined, which I found printed, and properly put up on the master’s side, for general inspection.

Common-side debtors have also a court-yard with arcades, a day-room, and twelve sleeping-rooins, the same as those on the master’s-side:but they sleep in hammocks, and find their own bedding.

Women debtors have a court about 20 feet square, a day-room 18 feet square, and four sleeping-rooms, of the same size as the men’s; to which they also lind their own bedding, and pay nothing.

Pumps are fixed in all the Courts:Thames-water is laid on; and at the top of the four corners of the gaol is a reservoir, each containing about 800 gallons of water, supplied from a well by a forcing pump. There are four spacious airy rooms, each 25 feet by 1G, set apart as infirmaries, fitted up with flock-beds, blankets, pillows, and rugs; and adjoining to them are court-yards, 30 feet square, for convalescents to walk in Also two rooms for the nurses; another for the surgeon; and a fourth with a warm-bath.

o 3

' The Chapel is a very neat building, where prisoners are seated in their different classes; and all are required to attend divine service who receive the 1 ounty allowance.

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

f>07

The lobbies are well ventilated, 6 feet 3 inches wide. Rules and Orders excellent. The Magistrates visit in rotation, and enter their remarks in a book. The Act for Preservation of Health, and the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, conspicuously hung up. The whole prison is remarkably clean.

il Legacies and Donations to the Common-side Debtors of the County Gaol, Surry, formerly called C(White Lion Prison.”

<-£ s. d.

Gift of the Archbishop of Canterbury, to be

applied for every Christmas, -10 0

Thomas Dawson, a legacy every Christmas,

paid by the Churchwardens of St. Ethelburga, 0 9 0

Arthur Mouse, ditto, ditto, paid by the

Fishmongers’ Company, - 0 13 4

Joan Hackett, ditto, ditto, paid by ditto, 0 3 4

John Stokes, ditto, in bread, yearly, paid by the Drapers’ Company, between All Saints and Christmas, - - 050

Richard Jacobs, ditto, every Easter, payable formerly at the Grange-Inn, near Lincoln’s-Inn, but now (1807) by Mrs. Ann Starling, Long-yard, White-Conduit Street, - -200

Margaret Dane, ditto, 5th of November, four stone three quarters of beef, and two dozen of bread.

The parish of Allhallows, every two years, at Christmas, one hundred weight of beef.

The Leather seller s’ Company, every quarter, 5s; in bread, and 25. in money.

Eleanor

50$ ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Eleanor Gwyn’s legacy, sixty-five penny loaves every eight weeks, sent from the Chamberlain s Office.

Table of Fees, payable to the Gaoler by the Debtors.

£. s. (I

For the discharge of every prisoner for debt, - 0 10 10 For his conduct warrant on attending prisoners

on returns of Habeas Corpus - 0 10 6

For attending with prisoners by Rule of Court,

&c. to be bailed, or receive judgment - 0 10 6

For the use of bed, bedding, and sheets, for every debtor on the master’s side of the prison, for the first night, - - -006

For every night after the first, - 0 0 3

For a room, bed and bedding, pvr week, - 0 3 6

I beg leave here to pay my acknowledgments to the Right Honourable Lord Leslie, Sir Thomas Tur-ton, Bart. M. P. for the Borough, and the.Visiting Magistrates, who did my worthy friend Dr. Lettsom and myself the honour to accompany us over every part of this excellently well-regulated gaol. Its cleanliness and good order I have noticed in the first and second editions of this work; and to these, probably, may be ascribed its healthiness:twelve persons, only, having died by illness since it was first inhabited in August 171)8, . although the average number of prisoners in it has heeu annually, from lfiu to 200.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 50#

TOTHILL FIELDS; Westminster.

Gaoler, Henry Bothwell.

Salary, 400l. if room-rent, bedding, and fees amount to that sum; otherwise the County makes up the difference.

Fees, felons, ~)S. 2d. Garnish, 1$. 2d. Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Bennett. Salary, 20l.

Duty, Sunday, Prayers and Sermon.

Surgeon, Mr. Henbury; Salary, 30l.

Number of Debtors committed from the Courts of Conscience in nine years.

17#8. Sixty-two.

1799. Fifty-six.

1800. Sixty-one.

1801. Seventy-two.

1802. Forty-three.

1803. Fifty-five.

1804. Fifty-eight.

1805. Thirty-seven.

1806. Sixty-nine.

Allowance, to debtors none: to criminals one pound of bread per day.

REMARKS.

Over the gate is this Inscription:

There are several sorts of Work for the poor of “ this Parish of St. Margaret's, Westminster, as re also the County, according to Law: and for such, “ as will beg, and live idle, in this City and Liberty fC of Westminster. Anno 1655.”

At the entrance, on the left hand, is a room, in which are deposited the bonnets and other articles

of

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

510

of clothing, taken from the women prisoners at their coining in.

The room over the gateway is called Newgate-ward, and contains five beds, for the use of which each prisoner pays 6d. a night: two sleep in a bed; If a prisoner has a bed to himself, he pays Is. per night. The turnkey’s sleeping-room adjoins.

Almost the whole area of this prison is engrossed by the Keeper’s melon and cucumber garden; and on the sides of it are four narrow court-yards. The first of these, for Felons, has a day-room, with a fire-place; and two rooms, which are free wards, with barrack-beds, and one or two blankets each, as the weather is mild or severe. The doors open into the court-yard, and the iron-grated windows are not glazed.

The second, called the Sick Court, is very small: the door of the men’s infirmary opens into it: the room is about 20 feet by 11, and fi feet 8 inches high, with a fire-place, and two iron-grated windows not glazed; barrack-beds, straw-mattress, and two or three blankets each. The sick must suffer a continual disturbance in this miserable room.

The third court is for Vagrants, and has a day-room and two sleeping-rooms on the ground-floor; one of which is about 25 feet by 12, and the other lS feet by 12. Both have barrack-beds, and in the winter, blankets are allowed.

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. *511

The fourth court Ts for men debtors, and those who are committed for "assaults or bastardy. Three sleeping rooms open into this court, which arcj'rce tear (Is, with barrack-beds, loose straw, and a blanket each: those who can afford to pay 67/. a night for a bed, sleep in a part of the gaol, called the Old Bridewell; in wdiich there are two rooms, with three beds each.

Women debtors have the narrow passage which leads to the keepers house to walk in; which being separated from the felons’ court by a low paling only, they can at all times converse with them; and at my visit (llth April 1SC5) the two debtors wTere in the felons’ court. They have a small day-room, with a fire-place:those who cannot afford to pay for a bed, sleep in the solitary cells, and a blanket is allow'ed to each.

For faulty apprentices there are four solitary cells on the ground-floor, about 9 feet 7 by 6 feet 9, and 6 feet 9 inches high:the upper and lower door-pan-nels are iron-latticed, and open into a lobby paved with flagstones, about 3 feet 11 inches wide, which separates them from the other parts of the prison. Above these are four other cells, with iron-grated windows and wooden blinds, to prevent their looking into the courts. A blanket is allowed to each prisoner.

Here is plenty of wrater at all times, and the whole prison is washed twice a week:mops, brooms, pails, See. being allowed by the considerate Magistrates.

"Women

512 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Women have a comfortable room upstairs, with a fire-place and two glazed windows, at the North East corner, set apart for an Infirmary; with barrack-beds^ straw mattress, and two or three blankets each:and adjoining are two sleeping-rooms, with glazed windows and two beds each, at 3.?. Gd. per week.

The Chaplain’s access to his desk is from the top of the staircase; and he has a full view of the two rooms where men and women assemble at divine service. A better chapel is much wanted.

• The old Gate-house, Westminster, (a prison, the property of the Dean and Chapter,) having been taken down, another prison is erected in Tothill-fields, joining to the Bridewell, first inhabited ill 17S9. It is now entirely appropriated to the women, and has two spacious airy courts, about 19 yards by 14 each, and three rooms for dressing provisions, &c. about 1") feet by 10. To these courts there are four free weirds, near 20 feet square, with barrack-beds; and one blanket each is allowed during the winter. Seven chaldrons and a half of coals are allowed to both prisons; besides which coals have occasionally been sent by the Dean and Chapter, from a legacy of Mrs. Letilia Cornwallis. Her will bears date 13th December 1731, and through the politeness of Mr. Cell, I was favoured with the following extract.

" 1757,

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

513

i(1797, June 9th. Received at the Bank eight half-years dividends of 5l. Is. 7d. each, ending 5th Jan. 1797, on 35S/. 155. 3d. three per Cent. Consols, being the produce of the legacy of 100/. given by the will of Letitia Cornwallis, spinster, dated 13th December 1731, the interest whereof to be for ever applied, on the 7th of November, either in discharge of, or for other relief of such poor prisoners in the Gatehouse-prison, Westminster, as the .Dean of Westminster for the time being shall think fit. Which said sum of 358/. 155. 3d. was transferred by the Accountant General of the High Court of Chancery (by order of the said court) to the Dean of St. Peter’s, Westminster, and the Chapter of the same Church, who, by deed-poll, under their common seal, dated 25th January 1786, acknowledged to have accepted the said stock, in trust for the purposes mentioned in the said will; which said sum of 358/. 155. 3d. standing in the transfer books under the title of the Dean of St. Peter’s, Westminster, &c. and under the letter P. occasioned divers searches, before the same was found:And therefore, in order to prevent the like trouble in future, it was transferred, on the 2d of June 1797, by Anthony Gell, Esq. the present Receiver, by power of Attorney from the present Dean and Chapter of Westminster, from and out of the name of the Dean of St. Peter’s, Westminster, into the name of the Dean of the Collegiate Church of St. Peter, Westminster, and the Chapter of the same Church.”

“ 1804, July 20th. Received half year's dividend on 458/. 155. 3d. one hundred pounds stock having been bought 22d January 1804.”

It is in contemplation to enlarge the Bridewell from some waste ground adjoining: But I would submit to the magistrates, if it might not be better to build a new one, so, as that the keeper’s house may have a command of the different courts, &c.

Kk

5H

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS-

WARWICK.

County Gaol.

Gaoler, Ilennj Tatnall. Salary, 300l.

Fees. See Table. Garnish. Abolished.

Chaplain. Rev. Hugh Luugharne. Duty, Sunday and Wednesday. Salary, 50 /.

Surgeon, Mr. Birch.

Salary, 20l. for Gaol and Bridewell.

/'lSoo, April 6th, - Number of Debtors, <j 1802, Jan. 28th, -

11803, Aug. 20th, -

Allowance. One pound and a half of bread pe?% day-.

REMARKS.

At the entrance is the turnkey’s lodge, the room over which, denominated the “ Dead Room, ” is so called from the executions which take place out of it. A small court-yard fronts the gaoler’s house, which is nearly in the centre of the building.

Master’s-

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 51, }

Master’s-side debtors have a court-yard 82 feet by 37 ? a day-room 20 feet by 16‘; and nine lodging-rooms about 10 feet square, for which they pay as per Table. Above stairs are fifteen rooms, of about the same size, which open into passages only three feet wide.

Common-side debtors have a court 82 feet by 37; a day-room about 14 feet square, and upstairs three sleeping-rooms, furnished with chaff-beds, for which they pay nothing. Women debtors have two rooms, each lb feet by 14.

Table of Fees,

As settled by his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace, at the General Quarter Sessions held at Warwick, the 30th day of July, 1759.

s. d.

Every prisoner that lies on the keeper’s side, if he

has a bed to himself, pays by the week - 2 6

Those prisoners on the keeper’s side, who have a

bed between two, pay each by the week - 1 6

For entering every action against each prisoner 3 0

For discharging every action against each prisoner 10 G To the Under-sheriff for every discharge - - 4 0

For receiving and entering every declaration - 10

For a copy of each warrant against each prisoner 1 0

For every certificate of the cause of a prisoner’s being detained in prison, in order for being discharged - 3 0

F. Strafford. M. Wise, Wm. Huddes/ord, J. Bird. C. Bean.

k k 2 We,

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

51(>

We, the Judges of Assize for the County of Warwick, have reviewed, and do hereby confirm, the above Table of Fees. Given under our hands this 24th day of August, 1759.

T. Parker.

Ja. Hewitt.

The chapel is so partitioned off, that the sexes are out of sight of each other; and all the prisoners attended divine service when I was there (21st August IS03). Under the chapel are two work-rooms, in one of which the men weave, and eight looms were employed:in the other, the women spin, and mend and wash for the men prisoners. Here is a warm and cold bath.

Formerly, the debtors, in common, received 3 Os. a year, the rent of a house in the town; and from another legacy eight three-penny loaves twice in every month. No memorial of either is hung up in the gaol; and I learnt that the legacy of 30s. per annum has been discontinued many years.

The following donations at Christmas I copied from the gaolers book:1798, in money 28/. besides meat and coals. 1799? 261. 1800, 261, 1801,

24/. 1802, 25/.

The Act for the preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are conspicuously hung up; and the whole prison is very clean.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

51/

WELLINGTON; Shropshire.

Gaoler, Edward Tonge, a Sheriff's Officer.

Salary, none.

Fees, 7s. 67/.

Allowance, none whatever.

REMARKS.

The prison is in a very dilapidated state, and filthy in the extreme. There are five rooms in the Keeper’s house, three of which are totally dark: The gaoler, paying window-tax, has stopped them up.

No court-yard; no water; no sewer; no Table of Fees. The Act for preserving Health, and Clauses, not hung up. Seven years since the gaol was whitewashed. The straw allowed for bedding was worn to dust upon the floor.

Debtors from the Hundred of Bradford are brought here. The gaoler told me that two prisoners had been released from hence by the Insolvent Act, after a confinement, in such a place, for two years!

1802, November 4th. No prisoners.

518

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

WHITECHAPEL; London.

Gaoler, John Simpson, Sheriff's Officer.

Salary, none. Pays 15/, rent, with window-tax, and all other taxes.

Fees, 8s. id. Garnish abolished.

Chaplain, or Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors committed from the Baron

Court, in four years.

1803, - Eight 1805, - - Eleven

1804, - Eleven 180(), Seventeen.

Allowance, none whatever. ♦

REMARKS.

This is a prison of the Baron Court, for the Liberties and Manors of Stepney and Hackney, and is private property. It consists of four rooms fronting the high-road, two on each story, of about fifteen feet by thirteen, and eight feet high. Every debtor who sleeps in any of these rooms, pays to the keeper for the use of a bed, one shilling the first night, and sixpence per night afterwards. The court-yard is 40 feet by 20, in which is the men’s day-room, of 12 feet by 10. From the court is an ascent by a wooden staircase to a gallery; in which are two sleeping-rooms, and the women’s day-room, of equal size with that below. These latter are free wards.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

5 IS

In this prison are confined those whose debts are above two pounds, and not exceeding Jive pounds.

By statute of 21 Geo. III. intituled “ An Act for te diminishing the Fees payable, and altering the “ Mode of proceeding, in the Court of Record within “ the Manors of Stepney and Hackney, ” &c. imprisonment is fixed for a time, not exceeding one week for every pound of the total debt and costs:by which salutary statute no prisoner can be confined here for more than five weeks. The court is held every Thursday; and a regular general court once in six weeks.

@3^' The very excellent mode of adjusting the duration of custody, and diminution of debt, in this gaol, is worthy the attention of considerate Magistrates, and .particularly of those in agricultural counties; where a debtor is frequently committed at the commencement of the Hap or Coni Harvest: By which means the country7 is denied his labours, when most essentially requisite, and husbandmen, in too many instances, are forced to pay exorbitant wages for getting in the produce of their lands. Nor is this the only grievance. It too frequently happens that the family of the debtor, during his confinement, must inevitably fall as a burden upon their parish; and thus an increase of the Poor’s Rate is occasioned, which it is matter of surprize should have so long been suffered to escape the vigilance of the Magistracy.

520

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

WINCHESTER; Hampshire. County Gaol.

Gaoler, John JFhite.

Salary, 200l. and two guineas a year for keeping a check-account of bread delivered.

Fees. See Table: Besides which the Under-Sheriff demands 6s. 8d. and one shilling to his Clerk, for his liberate !

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain, Rev. Nicholas West comb.

Duty. Prayers and Sermon on Sunday; and Prayers on Wednesday and Friday.

Salary, 701, for Gaol and Bridewell.

Surgeon, Mr. Giles Lyford.

Salary, 100l. for Felons, poor Debtors, and Bridewell prisoners.

Number of Debtors,

1800, March 30th, 19

1801, Jan. 10th, - 42

1802, Jan. 3d, - 26

1802, March 29th, 23

1803, Oct. 24th, - 18

1807, Sept. 23d, - 23

Allowance. Master’s-side Debtors, none. Those on the Common-side have each 1/ ounces of Bread per day, in loaves; which, though two days old, I found to be full weight: also a pound of Mutton each on every Sunday.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

; 21

REMARKS.

To prevent encroachments by the construction of other buildings, the ground purchased by the county extends about twelve feet beyond that which is occupied by the gaol. The prison is enclosed on three sides by a low fence wall, ten feet high; in the centre of which, on the East, or principal front, is the entrance. This is rendered very conspicuous by a noble and spacious gate, of the Tuscan order, constructed from a design of Vignola at the Farnese Gardens’ gate, or entrance into the Campo Vae-cini; and adorned with rustick columns and pilasters, supporting a handsome entablature.

On a Tablet over the entrance is the following Inscription:

“ This County Gaol

was erected in the Forty-fifth Year of the Reign of His Majesty, King George the Third, and in the Year of our Lord, MDCCC V.

Money penny, Architect.”

At sixty feet distance on each side of the gate, are rustic piers, connected with the gate by an iron railing. The principal front of this building is 220 feet in length, and is designed to form three advanced structures. The chief entrance is in the middle structure; and on each side are the publick

entrances

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

entrances to the Turnkey’s rooms and the court-

•J

yard adjoining.

The spaces between the advanced structures are ornamented with niches, finished in a style of chaste simplicity, and the angles are embossed with rustic quoins. The pails of which all are composed, are large, few in number, and of a bold relief, characteristic of the purpose of the building.

Over the niches are moulded square compartments, which give a simple and easy relief to the space between the crowning of the niches and the beautiful Doric cornice; which is a grand and striking object, imitated from the theatre of Marcellus at Rome, excepting in the dentil band, which here remains uncut, and the soffit of the corona is divested of its ornaments.

The keeper s house, a large and convenient dwelling, is in the centre of the building; and affords from each floor an entire communication, by arcades, all round the prison, without the necessity of passing the courts. These arcades are likewise very commodious for the debtors; giving them an easy and open avenue to their apartments, and a great accommodation for walking and exercise in bad weather.

The ascent to the floors of these arcades, which are paved with flag-stones, is by stone staircases, guarded by iron-railing. Over each arcade, on the

master-

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 523

master-debtors’ side, are six sleeping-rooms, lG i’eet square, and nearly 11 feet high; and a kitchen or mess-room 24 feet by 22, with a large fire-place, dining table, shelves, and cupboards for provisions. They have also two rooms on the ground iloor, of the same size; one of which is a day-room, and the other for the debtor to see his friends in The bedrooms are furnished with a wood lath bedstead, straw mattress, feather-bed, blanket, sheets, and rug, at 2.9. 6(1. each per week.

The court for common-side debtors is separated from that of the master’s side by iron-railing, and of equal size, viz. 84 feet by 74. They have likewise three floors of arcades, that lead to their sleeping-rooms; three of which are on the ground-floor; three on the first-story, with a mess-room, the same as on the master’s side; and three on the attic-story, with an infirmary. To these sleeping-rooms, which are similar to those on the master’s side, the county allows a stravv-in-sacking-bed, a blanket, and coverlet gratis.

In the women-debtors’ court, which is SO feet by 35, and situated on the South side of the prison, are four spacious rooms, of like construction with those for the other debtors. One of these rooms is furnished by the keeper, at 2s. 6d. per week; and the others have a straw-in-sacking bed, blanket, and coverlet, at the County’s expenee. Every room has

524 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

a Bath-stove grate, an iron shovel and poker, and a coal-box, to hold two bushels: the recess on each side the chimney has a shelf 18 inches wide, for placing their provisions, &c. All the debtors’ rooms are boarded, with each a sash window, 5 feet 6* by 3 feet 6, and a grated unglazed aperture over the door, 3 feet by 18 inches. This court has uo arcades:a door out of it communicates with the chapel.

Here is a reservoir, filled by an hydraulic pump, from a well of fine water adjoining; which being judiciously placed in the centre of the men debtors’ courts, is both convenient and ornamental, forming an elegant arcade beneath the cistern. Within this arcade are placed two large stone troughs, with each a pipe and cock, so that the debtors may enjoy all the use of a constant supply of water under cover from the reservoir. Pipes are also laid on to the keeper’s house, and to the court assigned for women debtors.

The various sewers are placed at the end of the several wings of the Prison, on the outside of the staircases, the vaults of which are 6*0 feet deep. 'There are 'also pens adjoining the sewers, for ashes, &c. forming together little buildings, equally useful and ornamental.

' The court-yards here are so extensive and open, that the paving of them entirely with flag stone

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

f) 2 3

was thought unnecessary; yet, in order that prisoners may enjoy the free use of them, spacious footpaths of stone are laid out in various directions, and the intermediate parts are covered with fine gravel.

It is to be regretted, that when this addition was made to the prison, a new Chapel also was not built. The present old one is 28 feet by 25, and 12 feet high; therefore low and inconvenient. And although the sexes are separated in the area of the building, they sit on benches, or forms, very near to, and in full view of each other.

Debtors have the option of attending Divine Service:but, if they neglect, are locked up in their rooms till it is over. The Rev. John Lee, a Romish Priest, gratuitously attends those prisoners who are of the same persuasion.

Underneath the Chapel is a large store-room, in which are deposited the fuel, &c. granted for the use of the prisoners.

The dav-rooms have coals allowed, with kettles and other utensils for cooking. Common-side debtors have about forty bushels of coals for Winter consumption.

Within the Gaol is hung up an Account of Fees, which, after a recital of the preamble of the statute enjoining it, is as follows:I

526 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Table of Fees for Debtors in the County Gaol of Winchester.

I. s. d.

“ At the Entrance of every Debtor, for cleansing the Gaol, and finding Candle, and other necessaries, - 0 4 0

Of every Debtor for each Week’s Lodging in the Gaoler’s Bed, on the master*! Side - 0 2 6

“ For each Debtor discharged, to the Gaoler 10 0

Of him, for the Second and every other Action, - 0 10 0

o To the Turnkey, at the Discharge of every

Debtor, - - 0 2 0

“ To him, of such Debtor, for the Second and

every other Action, -010

4i For Copy of every Warrant for a Debtor 0 10

“ Certificate, to obtain a Supersedeas - 0 3 4.”

Hants, Lent Assizes, March 2d, 1790.

(< We have reviewed, and do confirm this Table of Fees.

T. C. Shirley. B. Hotham.

J. Harrington. R. Perryn.

T. Hall.

Durnford, C lerk of the Pcace.’r

No employment has hitherto been provided by the county: but such prisoners as are of handicraft

trades

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. ' , r, 27

trades are permitted to procure work from without, and have the whole of their earnings.

Saint Cross’s Hospital Bread, called the Dole, is a small loaf, given to each of the prisoners at six times in the year: viz. Easter jive, Whitsun Eve, May the 3d, August the 10th, Oct. the 31st, and Christmas Eve. Upon sending thither the number of prisoners in custody, on each of those days, the same number of loaves is put by, and they are sent for the day following.

The prisoners are obliged to wash their hands and face every morning: they have clean linen once a week, and are shaved twice weekly.

Mops, brooms, brushes, soap, and all other requisites for prison cleanliness, are provided for the whole gaol by the considerate Magistrates; and every prisoner must sweep his room, and wash it daily in Summer, and weekly in Winter.

Here is no gaol uniform provided; but if a prisoner be ragged or filthy, he is furnished with suitable clothing. A large tub is provided as a bath.

No Rules and Orders. The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against Spirituous Liquors, are conspicuously fixed up.

@3* All prisoners are prudently discharged in a morning, and have money given them according to the distance from home.

The

52S

ACCOUNT OF IMllSONS FOR DEBTORS

The worthy keeper is humane, intelligent, and attentive; and the prison remarkably clean.

Through the exertions of that active and excellent Magistrate, Sir Henry St. John Mildmay *, *

Bart. M. P. for the County, a fund has been established here, for the relief of those poor debtors, who are unable to sue for their sixpences, supersedeas, &.c. and likewise for giving them the pecuniary assistance before-mentioned, to enable them to return to their respective homes.

If similar Institutions were set on foot throughout England and Wales, it would be productive of great advantage to the helpless prisoner, both whilst under durance, and at his enlargement; in Wales particularly, where many poor debtors are confined for three or four pounds, and the expence of suing fcrr their aliment is greater than the original debt.

o o

* My worthy friend, and able coadjutor in an examination into, and report of the state of Convicts in Portsmouth and Langston Harbours, drawn up 16th March, 1802; and to whom it will give great pleasure to be informed, that since the new system has been adopted, the Convicts are in every respect more healthy and comfortable.

4E

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

529

WINCHESTER.

City Gaol and Bridewell.

Gaoler, William Forster.

Salary, none.

Fees:No Table yet settled by the Corporation.

No Chaplain, nor Surgeon.

Number of Prisoners.

1802, March 19th, Debtors 0 Felons, &c. 2.

1803, Oct. 24th, 0 - 1.

1807, Sept. 23d, -O-l.

Allowance, to debtors, none. To felons, &c. a quart loaf of bread every other day; which, in 1802, weighed two pounds four ounces.

REMARKS.

This prison is a neat brick building, erected in 1800, during the Mayoralty of Joseph Barker, Esq. Debtors arrested on process issuing out of the Borough Court may be here confined for any sums great or small; but at my several visits I have not found any in custody.

A gourt-yard, paved with flag-stone, of about 20 feet by 14, and two rooms about 13 feet square and 9 feet high, were at first set apart for debtors.

L l They

530

ACCOUNT of PRISONS FOR DElilORS

They are now, however, chiefly appropriated, the one to petty offenders, and the other to female criminals, or deserters.

The felons have also two rooms on the opposite side of the building, and below stairs, opening into their two paved court-yards, and of the same dimensions as those before mentioned. The four rooms, which have all of them boarded floors, with glazed windows and fire-places, are ventilated by iron gratings over each door, and a small aperture in the doors, of p inches by 7:and to each room the city allows a straw-in-sacking bed, without bedstead, a bolster, blanket, and rug. A bushel of coals also per week, is granted in Winter for the common use of all.

At my visit in 1802, there being only one fire allowed, the two prisoners, a man and a woman, . were locked up together during the day-time.

No employment. No Rules and Orders. The Act for Preservation of Health, and Clauses against . Spirituous Liquors not hung up.

The court-yards well supplied with water, and the prison very clean.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALTS.

53}

WORCESTER CASTLE County Gaol.

Gaoler, William Davis.

Salary, 200l. for Gaol, and Bridewell which adjoins.

Fees, as/?er Table:Besides which the Under-sheriff demands %s. (id. for his liberate!

Chaplain, Rev. W illiam Faulkner.

Duty, Prayers Wednesday and Friday; and Prayers and Sermon every Sunday, Christ-mas-day, and Good Friday.

Salary, 40l.

Surgeon. Mr. Rayment, for felons only.

c

Salary, 201, and paid for medicines.

Number of Debtors,

1800, May 1st, - 10 1803, Aug. 26'th, - S

1802, Nov. 7th, - 12 lSob, Sept. 10th, - 14

Allowance, none:But, in 1806, the considerate Magistrates ordered an allowance to every

' poor debtor having no property, and the bill to be brought in every Quarter Sessions.

REMARKS.

The Castle-yard is spacious: the county members are chosen in it: but the wood and iron work of the entrance gates are so much decayed, as to render

532 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

the court very insecure and unsafe. The debtors’ side of the prison is separated from that of the criminals by a brick-wall, and divided into two classes, viz. the masters icard and the common ward. The ample court-yard allotted for the use of both, is one hundred and eleven feet by sixty-five. Master s side debtors have a day-room, £-il feet by 13 feet 3 inches:they pay 2s. 67/. per week for a single bed; if two sleep together is. 67/. each; and there are eleven good lodging-rooms in the gaoler’s house. Common-

O O o o

side debtors have a free ward, 18 feet by 17, to which the County allows straw, but no bedding not* fuel. The cooking-room, which is common to both, is ip feet square. Here is no distinct or separate apartment for male and female debtors; they are confined together in one common ward. Those females who can afford to pay for a bed, sleep in the gaoler's house. The poor debtors complained grievously that, as they had no allowance, and were both able and.willing to work, there should be no attention paid to the means of industry: that they had no place or room to work in; (but which the compassionate gaoler told me he should find no difficulty to procure in this manufacturing city; ) adding, that they were often poor and penny less, in a miserable state, bordering even on starvation; and that many must have perished from want, had they not been relieved by casual charity. This shews how full of emphatical

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 533

meaning is that malediction of a severe creditor, who pronounces it as his debtors doom, “ to starre and rot in gaol!" There are (very improperly) two windows in this ward, through which the debtors may converse with the felons, or even assist them with tools to effect their escape, as practised at York, &c. and which the utmost attention of the keeper cannot prevent.

The Chapel is between the Bridewell and the Gaol. The debtors’attendance on divine service is optional; and at my visit, in 1802, only three of them, out of 12, were at chapel:but all the felons and other criminal prisoners were there, and their behaviour was orderly and attentive.

The sick ward of the male felons is in the debtors’ court; and as it consists of two rooms, which communicate with each other, the males and females are obliged to be put therein, because the other ward intended for sick females is both very remote from v the house, and an insecure place of confinement. There is also but one privy for the sick debtors, to which the male and female felons, whatever may be their disease, resort.

“Table of Fees.

/. s. d.

te For entering the action wherein a prisoner is

brought into custody on any writ or process 0 6 S

For entering every second or other action 0 3 4

Tor

534

account of prisons for debtors

For the certificate of a declaration not having been delivered, in order to sue out a writ of Supersedeas - 0 3 4

The above are demandable of the prisoner.

For receiving and entering every declaration

against a prisoner in custodj“ - - 0 3 4

For each copy of a warrant against a prisoner 0 3 4

These to be paid by persons delivering the declarations, or demanding the copy of the warrant. *

For attending upon every prisoner to give bail, or special bail, or on an Habeas Corpus, or on any other necessary occasion out of the Gaol, as directed by the statute, per mile -010

Charges for Lodging, Bedding, &c.

Every person confined in the Sheriff’s Ward,

finding his own bedding, fora week, - 0 10

Every person who is found lodging and a bed,

bedding and sheets, for a week - 0 2 6

If two persons in one bed, each for a week 0 ] 6

Signing every certificate - - 0 1 o

Copy of every Habeas Corpus, and return thereof 0 5 0”

The gaoler's house, which forms a considerable part of the prison, is not only insecure for custody, but in a very dilapidated and uncomfortable state to reside in Under all these circumstances, however, it is fortunate for the prisoners, that their keeper is a man of benevolence and humanity, and accommodates them as well as he can.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

53.“»

WORCESTER CITY Gao/.

Gaoler, James Griffiths.

Salary, 50l. I Te is likewise the parish clerk, and clerk to the House of Industry.

Fees, debtors, 9s. 2d. The Under-sheriff demands 2s. 6d. for his liberate !

Garnish, abolished.

Chaplain. Rev. Mr. Faulkner.

Duty, Prayers every Friday moming.

Salary, 10l.

Surgeon, Mr. Rayment.

Salary, 67. 6s.

Number of Debtors,

1800, May 1st, - 8 1803, Aug. 2dth, - - 9 1802, Nov. 8th, - - 2 1806, Sept. 10th, - -4

Allowance. None; except to paupers; then three pence a day, the same as felons.

fJCr* No person arrested by a writ issued out of the Court of Pleas of the City of Worcester has ever been able to derive any advantage under the Lords’ Act, for procuring the sixpences.

536-- account of prisons-for debtors

REMARKS.

This Gaol, situate in Fryer Street, is also the City Bridewell. Debtors have a court about l8 yards square, with a day-room 14 feet square; and there are five rooms on the Master s side, to which the Keeper furnishes beds, at 3^. per week, if single; if two sleep together, 2s. per week each.

One large room, which serves as a chapel, is the debtors’free ward; to which the City allows straw and a rug each.

Criminal prisoners have a small court-yard, a day-room, and a sleeping-room, on the ground-floor; to which straw and two rugs for each are allowed.

Bridewell-prisoners have a small day-room upstairs, and a large sleeping-room, separated off for men and women.

The prison is well supplied with water. No room set apart for an Infirmary. The prisoners procure work for themselves, and have all they earn.

Neither the Act for the Preservation of Health, nor the Clauses against Spirituous Liquor?, are hung up.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 537

YARMOUTH; Norfolk.

Town Gaol.

Gaoler, Thomas King. Salary, 40l.

Fees, 6s. 8d.

Garnish, Is.

Chaplain, none:nor any religious attentions.

Surgeon, Mr. Bateman; or whoever attends the poor.

Salary, none; he makes a bill.

Allowance. One pound of bread per day each.

Here is only one court-yard, 30 feet 6 inches by ip feet 6y for all descriptions of prisoners:it has a passage IS feet long and feet wide, which leads to the pump and sewer.

. The. Master’s-side debtors have rooms above stairs, to which the keeper furnishes beds at 2s. 4d. and 3$. 6d. per week, and 4d. per week to the turnkey. Common-side debtors have a j'ree-ivard, to which the Corporation furnishes straw-in-sacking-beds, two blankets, a pillow, and a rug. Here is a common day-room, lOf feet by 9, to which a peck of coals per

Number of Debtors,

REMARKS.

day

' 538

ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

day is allowed throughout the year. Mops, brooms, pails, See. are supplied, to keep the prison clean; oil for the lamp, and saucepans, kettles, gridirons, &c. to cook their provisions. One room is set apart for the sick, 20 feet by 12, with a large iron-grated and glazed window, but no fire-place; wood bedsteads, straw-in-ticking beds, two blankets, a pillow, and rug.

Debtors from the Courts of Conscience, are sent here, and have the same allowance as other prisoners.

Mr. Reynolds, the Mayor of Yarmouth in 1805, generously added two shillings per week, in money or provisions, to the prisoners in common; and lie politely accompanied me over the gaol: when I pointed out to him, that by purchasing the adjoining public house, the Bridewell might be consolidated; workrooms made; the sexes kept separate in courts distinct from each other, and the loathsome Cells bricked up.

No Rules and Orders. Act and Clauses not hung up. No employment; though plenty might always be procured, if there were work-rooms.

This prison adjoins the Toll-house Hall, where prisoners are tried by the Recorder; and the court is said to have the power of life and death.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. fiJf)

Gaoler, William Staveley. Salary, 45^/.

Fees, 12s.; Besides which the Under-sheriff demands, if the debtor is discharged by plaintiff, 5s. 4d. if by supersedeas, 7s. Set.

Garnish. Every debtor pays a bag (containing a bushel) of coals, and a bag of turf, to the room which he inhabits; also two shillings to be spent amongst the other debtors.

Chaplains, Rev. Mr. Brown, and Rev. Mr. Richardson.

Duty. Mr. Brown, Prayers every Monday, Tuesday, and Friday; and, in Summer, on Sunday afternoon; Sacrament administered three times a year; also attends twice a day persons who are left for execution. Mr. Richardson, Prayers and Sermon on Thursday.

Salary. Mr. Brown 50/. from the County. Mr. Richardson, 23/. 15«y. from a legacy. See Remarks.

Surgeons, Messrs. Champney and Drake.

Salary, none:They make a bill.

Number of Debtors,

The average number is from 80 to ()().

Allowance.

YORK CASTLE.

h 1802, Aug. 23d, - - 6“0

540 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Allowance. To debtors certified as paupers* a nine-penny loaf each on Tuesday and Friday; weight (23d August 1802) 3 lb. 10 oz.

REMARKS.

Within the ample area, of about four acres, that surrounds this antient Castle, stands a noble County-Hall, in which are two courts; one for the trial of criminals, the other for Nisi Priiis, or civil causes. The prison for debtors is in the centre of the area, to which the ascent is by a fine flight of stone-steps, to a floor, on which are eight rooms, 16 feet square, and 12 feet high. Above these are eleven rooms for common-side debtors, which are all free-wards, airy, and healthy; the passages leading to them spacious and lofty. The County furnishes neither bedding nor straw for the debtor; and he that chooses to have a room to himself, pays for the furniture, bedding, &c. three pence a day. If a single bed amongst other debtors, two pence a day. If two debtors sleep together, one penny each. Their court-yard is about an acre of ground. Mr. IVatson, Clerk to the Justices, attends all their meetings held at the castle, and regulates the weight of the bread:Salary 2l/. per annum.

The County finds no employment for any; But Mr. Staveley, the present humane Keeper, is active in procuring employment for handicrafts, such

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 541

vis taylors, shoemakers, saddlers, weavers, wool-combers, &c. and those who cannot follow their own profession soon learn to make laces, garters, purses, &c. which they expose to sale in the Castle-yard; and thus many of them comfortably maintain themselves, and assist their families. As there is no work-room, this manufacture (in rainy weather) is carried on in the passages, or lobbies, which are wide and airy.

The origin of the salary for prayers and a sermon every week is interesting and exemplary. Having, through the politeness of Mr. Gray, been favoured with a copy of the writing of endowment, I give with pleasure the following extract, viz.

iC 16th January/* [1634] “ 10 Charles I. Phineas Hodgson, D. D. Chancellor of the Cathedral Church of York, by his deed of that date, (after expressing his desire, out of commiseration and pity to the souls of suck prisoners as then were, or should be, in the Castle of York, to provide that they, for ever afterwards, might be instructed in the knowledge of God, to their eternal bliss and happiness, which he hoped would be by providing some godly minister, or preacher of God’s word, to preach unto them in the said castle, which, by reason of their imprisonment ', they rcere hindered elsewhere to hear; and, in regard that‘Richard” [Neile] “ then late Archbishop of York, did license, or allow, that godly preachers, for ever thereafter, might be allowed to preach there to that purpose, although there was no church or chapel,) Grants to John Scott, D.D. the then Dean, and to George Stanhope, D. D. and Henry Wickham, D.D. Prebend Residentiaries

542 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

of the cathedral of York, A yearly rent-charge of thirty pounds, issuing out of a messuage in Bempton, alias Benton upon the Woulds, in the County of York, and out of the Chapel and tithes of Bempton, alias Benton and Newsam, (parcel of the possessions of the late monastery of Bridlington,) and all the lands and tenements of the grantor in Bempton, alias Benton and Newsam, payable half-yearly, at Whitsuntide and Martinmas, at I lax-by's Tomb, in the cathedral church of York (with the usual clauses of nomine poetue, and distress on default of payment) In trust, to pay twenty-jive pounds per annum, parcel of the said 30l. to such minister or preacher of God’s word, according to the true religion then established in the Church of England, as should be nominated and appointed by the Grantor, and after his death, by the Dean and Chapter of the Cathedral of York, to preach weekly in the Castle of York to the prisoners there for the time being; such minister preaching there once every week throughout the year, except only in the assize weeks, and at such times, by reason of any infection or otherwise, as he shall be dispensed with by the Grantor during his life, or the Dean, and Chapter after his death. And, to the intent that five pounds, residue of the 30l. should be distributed weekly, (by two shillings a week), in bread, amongst the poorer sort of the prisoners, upon the sermon days, to such of them as should be present at the said sermons:Hoping and desiring that some others would attend to this pious and charitable work, and, in time, increase the allowance and stipend; and that the work might be acceptable to God, and profitable and comfortable to many distressed and poor souls.”

The instrument then goes on to make provision for continuing and perpetuating the trust, on demise of the then trustees.

The

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES.

543

£. s. d.

The rent-charge as within (now, 1802, paid by the representatives of the late Robert Burton, of Hotliam, in Yorkshire, esq. as owners of the estate and tithes mentioned in the deed), is - - 30 0 0

Out of which is deducted and applied

for the purposes directed by the £. s. deed, - 50

And for land-tax on the 25l. per awn. 1 5

---- G 5 0

Clear receipt <£23 15 0

N.B. This writing mentions that Mr. William Hart, merchant at York, had formerly bequeathed 100/. to the like use. Nothing certain can be obtained concerning

O O

this legacy; which, (like many others I have heard of in my different visits to prisons,) is probably lost, or diverted to some other purpose; and, from the lapse of time, it is not likely that any thing can now be made out.

Charitable Donations to the prisoners in the Castle Gaol of York.

“ Lady' Lumley; to be given j'early ', on St. Thomas’s day, formerly 6/. Is. is now (iS02) increased to 10/. paid to the gaoler every Christmas, and ordered by the Trustees to be laid out in discharging poor debtors out of custody ', in the same manner as the money left in his hands b)r the High Sheriff and gentlemen of the Grand Jury:for which he produces, at each Assize, proper vouchers, &c.

The honourable and antient city of York, weekly, in bread, 2s. 6d.

Mrs.

i

544 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

Mrs. Frances Thornhill, for straw, (the Lord Mayor of York has 30/. in his hands for that purpose) 1/. 10s. *

Doctor Phineas Hodgson, paid weekly in bread to all that hear sermons, 2s. '

Alderman White’s and Mr. Bowes’s legacies seem to be both lost.”

The debtors have, from the lobbies or (passages, and also from their sleeping-rooms, a full view into the felons’ court and the solitary cells; by which means dangerous implements have been conveyed to them, and the regularity and orderly conduct of the gaol frequently disturbed. Sloping boards placed before the windows, in the manner I have seen them in other gaols, would prevent this hazardous communication.

^ No firing allowed to any part of the gaol, except for sick prisoners; to whom every comfort is administered, which, in the opinion of the Surgeons, is judged necessary.

It is matter of option with the debtors either to attend chapel, or not. If this may be deemed an .indulgence, it is surely a very faulty one.

* The 30s. for straw are now laid out in other articles, for the "good of the prison, by the Clerk to the Justices.

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 545

YORK, City and County Gaol.

Gaoler, Mary Meggeson, widow of the late Gaoler.

Salary, 110l.

Fees; debtors 6s. 8d. Besides which the under-sheriff* demands 7s. 4d. for his liberate !

Garnish, \s.

No Chaplain, nor any religious attention whatever, except when a prisoner is under sentence of death.

Surgeons, Messrs. Champney and Drake,

Salary, 10l.

(-1800, May 31st, - 5

Number of Debtors, < 1802, Feb. 1st, - 8

11802, Aug. 20th, - 7

Allowance. Debtors, none but legacies. See Remarks.

REMARKS.

This gaol upon Ouse-bridge, and called the Kid-cots, has on one side of the bridge eight convenient rooms for debtors, about 11 feet square, with a fireplace in each:these are all free-wards:But if the keeper furnishes a bed, he is paid is. 6d. per week each. Below them are two other rooms, with brick- -floors; one of which, 15 feet by 13, has a window

M M looking

546 ACCOUNT OF FAISON'S FOR DEBTORS

looking to the river, and was used as a lumber-room when I was here: the other, 11 feet by 8, is a shop for the sale of articles manufactured in the prison, such as nets, purses, laces, &c. the window of which fronts towards the street: in each of them a fire-place. No court-yard. There is a stone- tablet fixed in the wall, on which is inscribed. Remember the poor debtors. He that giveth to to the poor lendeth to the Lor!.” All debtors committed by process issuing out of the Sheriff’s court are sent to this prison, and on application are entitled to their six-pences the third court-day. A court is held every week. The Act and Clause# are conspicuously hung up.

Legacies and Donations

to the Prisoners in Ouse-bridge Gaol, York.

Mrs? Eliz. Taylor, by will, 21st Oct. 1580, gave 3s. Ad.

yearly, among them on Lady-day.

The Corporation of York pay yearly Peacock’s gift, being 31. 45. to be divided among the poor prisoners. .Mr. William Edmonson’s gift, being It. 6s. is distributed weekly in bread to the prisoners.

Mrs. Bowes gives every Christmas one guinea, and a chaldron of coals.”

A memorial of these Legacies and Donations is painted on a board, and hung up in the prison.

iN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. 547

YORK, St. Peters Gaol.

Gaoler, John Moiscr; who is also Sheriff’s Officer for the Liberty.

J

Salary, 21 /. and 2/. 8s. per annum to furnish straw.

Fees, 6s. 8d. besides which the Chief Bailiff demands a fee of 8s. 4d. for his liberate!

Garnish, a met (or sack) of coals, a bag of turf, and 1 s. for liquor.

Chaplain, none:nor any religious attentions.

Surgeon, none.

rlSOO, March 31st, - 0

Number of Debtors, n 1802, Aug. 20th, - 2

11.805, Aug. 5th, - 0

Allowance, none, except certificated as paupers. See Remarks.

REMARKS.

St. Peter’s Gaol, for the liberty of St: Peter at York, near the Minster Gate, is the property of the Dean, who holds his Courts here.

* I am informed, that since the gaoler’s salary has been raised from iol. to 2ii. his fees have been abolished.

548 ACCOUNT OF PRISONS FOR DEBTORS

There is no court-yard for the use of prisoners. The debtors have four sizeable rooms upstairs, which the keeper furnishes with bed and bedding, at 6s. and 105. per month.

Down eleven steps are two' dungeons for felons, each ip feet by 8, and G feet high, lighted and ventilated by an iron-grated window, which looks to the street: These dungeons had several loads of ashes and other filth in them, which appeared to have lain a long time. One of the debtors, who had his wife and four small children with him, occupied the room above, for which he paid 25. 6d. per i-week. He complained to me of the very, offensive cells below, which, together with the crowded state of his room, made it (in that hot weather) almost unbearable. The boards of the floor were rotten; and the roof of the cells not being cieled, there was a fissure of communication a foot long.

The next morning I waited on the Dean (the Rev. Mr. Markham) who politely accompanied me to the prison, and gave orders to the gaoler to take away the rubbish immediately, and to whitewash and cleanse the whole prison: which the gaoler promised should be set about the next day.

The only prisoner in the cells at that time was a run-away apprentice; and he was pounding tile-sherds. On my return in September 1 found nothing had been done: the prison was in the same state of

IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES. (£^9

filth: and two lewd ivomen were confined in the same cell with the boy before-mentioned; and \sith them several persons in the street were conversing.

The Act for preserving Health was not hung up; but the Clauses against Spirituous Liquors were. This, however, must be of little effect, when spirits can be so easily handed to the prisoners from the streets, and which, if the gaoler were ever so vigilant and attentive, he could not prevent.

Water is accessible to all the prisoners, and there is now a sewer.

In 1801, Doctor Fountayne, the late Dean, gave 100/. and the four Residentiaries 25/. each, making together 200/. for the benefit of this prison: which sum is invested in the public funds, and the dividends are directed to be applied towards the relief of debtors and felons confined in the said gaol, in such proportion as the Dean and Chapter shall from time to time think proper.

There is also a donation in bread, of twelve shillings, given every Christmas amongst the debtors and felons.

(550)

SHORT ACCOUNT

OF THE

Sntient 31n0titution

OF

COURTS OF CONSCIENCE,

WITHIN THE

METROPOLIS AND ITS VICINITY;

AND OF

THEIR PRESENT MUCH-IMPROVED CONDITION,

EFFECTED BY

THE SOCIETY FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTORS.

Courts of Conscience, anciently denominated Courts of Request, had their origin in 15IS (the Otli of Henry VIII); when the Common Council of the City of London issued an Act for the Recovery of Debts under Forty Shillings due to Citizens, by a court to be called a Court of Conscience, and to be held in Guildhall: and those debtors who failed to obey the award of that Court were to be imprisoned in one of the City Compters, until they complied with such award; even though it were durante vita. In lb05 (the 3d year of James I.)

the

INSTITUTION OF COURTS OF CONSCIENCE. .-551

the powers of the Court so formed in If, IS by the Common Council of London, were established by Act of Parliament.

In 1750, Alderman Dickenson brought in a-Rill for extending similar powers to the whole County of Middlesex; but with this difference, that all persons refusing to submit to the decision or award of the Court, were rendered liable to imprisonment, . in Newgate, for three calendar months, which cancelled the debt.

Thus it seems evident, that different degrees of punishment were inflicted for one and the same offence, contrary to true policy, justice, and common sense: as will appear by stating the various expellees and fees that were incurred to recover a debt from one shilling up to forty shillings; and which were nearly the same in all the Courts of Conscience:

For three Summonses s. d. 2 0

The Order 2 2

The Hearing 1 3

The Execution - - .2 6

The Officer 10

8 11.

On this original document are formed the following statements; viz.

* See xny Remarks on NEWGATE, Thomas Dobson, p. 391,

At

ACCOUNT or THE INSTITUTION OF

5q2

At the City Comptefs, in 'Wood Street and the Poultry.

s. d. 1. s.

Debt of one shilling 1 / 0

Expences to recover it, as above 8 11

Fees exacted by the Gaoler when

cleared - 15 8

---- 1 5 .7

which the debtor must pay, or be imprisoned for life, with felons.

At the Borough Compter, Southwark.

Debt, as above - l 0

Expences, ditto - 8 11

Fees exacted by the Gaoler when cleared - - 7 0

.. 0 16 ll

which the debtor must discharge, or incur imprisonment for life, with felons. .

JI y |* j

At Newgate, the County Gaol!

Debt - - 10

Expences - - 8 11

Fees exacted by the Gaoler when

cleared - r S 10 .

---- 0 18. 9

which the debtor must pay, or be imprisoned wuth felons, for three calendar months.

At

COURTS OFICCUSSClEKCi.

- At ClerhenwelL - _. - .

s. d. 7. i/ d.

Debt - _ - _ i o

Expences - - . 8 11.

Fees exacted by the Gaoler when cleared - - 50

- ' 0 14 11

which the debtor must pay/ or be imprisoned with felons forty days.

At Tothill Fields.

Debt - -"10

Expences - 8 11 .

Fees exacted by the Gaoler when

cleared - - 5 0 " 1

—- 0 14 11

which the debtor must pay, or be forty days imprisoned with felons.

fPb Such was the legally-sanctioned, the severe, and miserable lot of these poor, unthinking, and unfortunate classes of mankind, 'at the time of the institution of our Society: Nor was it till near fourteen years after its auspicious establishment, that their repeated applications were so attended do, as to effect a total change in the horrid system. At length, however, Truth and Humanity prevailed. The exactions before specified were published by order of the Society in February 1785; and in the same'year an Act of the legislature passed “ for reducing the Time for Imprisonment of Debtors

554 ACCOUNT OF THE INSTITUTION OF

committed to Prison upon Prosecutions in Courts tc of’ Conscience in London, Middlesex, and the ec Borough of Southwark, to the same Periods in “each Court; and for abolishing Fees paid ' by those Debtors to Gaolers, or others, on Account “ of such Imprisonment.” The happy result has been, that all Fees to Gaolers on these petty and injurious prosecutions are every where abolished; expences are reduced; the term of imprisonment is restricted (as hereafter mentioned); and in most of our county gaols, throughout the kingdom, a due separation is observed betwixt unhappy debtors and the most flagitious offenders.

The perfect completion of so salutary a reform cannot fail to, excite the just hope and warm expectation of every feeling heart. Particular care ought to be taken, that Debtors of the kind here specified, should never be suffered to mix with Criminals:but in my various tours of visitation to the Houses of Correction, and Bridewells, in places remote from the metropolis, I have but too often, found them associated with Felons, and other offenders of the worst description $ who, both by instruction and example, frequently make them as abandoned as themselves; nay, and even extinguish every spark of modesty in the females, by daily habits of intimacy with the lewdest of their sex.

COURTS OF CONSCIENCE. 555

Another consideration, of much importance, demand* also the peculiar attention of every conscientious Magistrate. Whilst the law ordains imprisonment, there ought to be a County Allowance of Food, and of Bedding for every indigent and friendless prisoner: instead of which, I have sometimes found debtors, who have in prison become indebted to felons for their food; and, in some instances, have painfully witnessed, that when liberated from a gaol, they were fitter for an hospital than for labour.

The foil owing; observations of Mr. Justice Blackstone demand a peculiar attention. He tells us, that “ divers trading towns, and other districts, had <c obtained Acts of Parliament, for establishing in “ them Courts of Conscience, upon nearly the same i(plan as that in the City of London. The anx-“ ious desire that has been shewn to obtain these (C several Acts, proven clearly, that the nation in “general is truly sensible of the great inconvenience fc arising from the disuse of the antient County and . “ Hundred Courts; wherein causes of this small c value were always formerly decided, with very little trouble and expence to the parties. But, it “ is to be feared, that the general remedy which of late hath been principally applied to this in-“ convenience (the erecting these new jurisdictions) (C may itself be attended, in time, with very ill consequences:as the method of proceeding therein

556 ACCOUNT OF THE INSTITUTION OF

? is entirely in derogation of the cdmirtOiT law; as ££ their large discretionary powers create a petty ty-££ ranny in a set of standing Commissioners; and as ££ the disuse of the trial by jury may tend to estrange t: the minds of the people from that valuable pre-<£ rogative of Englishmen, which has already been “ more than sufficiently excluded in many instances. <£ How much rather is it to be wished, that the pro-S ceedings in the County and Hundred Courts could q. again be revived, without burthening the free-holders with too frequent and tedious attendances; \<£ and at the same time removing the delays that ?£ have insensibly crept into their proceedings, and :££ the power that either party have, of transferring ~£ akpleaSure their suits to the Courts at Westminster! _££ And we may with satisfaction observe, that this *i experiment has been actually tried, and has suc--6$ ceeded^ jin the populous county of Middlesex; ^falhich might serve as an example for others. For, $rby Statute 23 George II. c. 33. it is enacted", // T. That a special County-court shall be held, ISafcdeast once a month, in every hundred of the “county of Middlesex by the county clerk'’.

That twelve freeholders of that hundred, ' qualified to serve on juries, and struck by the sh& ££ riff, shall be summoned to appear at such “ court by rotation, so as none shall be sum-££ moned oftener than once a year. 3. That in all

causes

COURTS OF CONSCIENCE.

^ 'causes not exceeding the value of forty shillings, “ the county clerk and twelve suitors shall pro-/*' ceed in a summary way, examining the parties “ and witnesses on oath, without the formal pro-<(cess antiently used; and shall make such order “ therein, as they shall judge agreeable to cori-ec science. 4. That no plaints shall be removed <f out of this court by any process whatsoever; but i{ the determination herein shall be final. 5. That (C if any action be brought in any of the superior (e courts against a person resident in Middlesex for f e a debt or contract, upon the trial whereof the jury “ shall find less than 40a\ damages, the plaintiff “ shall recover no costs, but shall pay the defendant double costs; unless upon some special circum-“ stances, to be certified by the Judge who tried it.

Lastly, a Table of very moderate Fees is pre-tc scribed and set down in the Act; which are not to t(be exceeded upon any account whatsoever. This tc is a plan entirely agreeable to the Constitution and fC genius of the Nation:calculated to prevent a “ multitude of vexatious actions in the superior “ Courts; and at the same time to give honest cre-(< ditors an opportunity of recovering small sums; f4 which now they are frequently deterred from by

* Sic Orig. Q.. Jurors} or Jurats P

iC the

55$

ACCOUNT OF THE INSTITUTION OF

“ the expence of a suit at law: a plan, which, iit “ short, wants only to be generally known, in order “ to its universal reception

It may be necessary here to observe, that my Remarks on the Borough Compter (See p. 96) were prepared for publication on the 2Sth of May 1806V Butin August of that year an Act passed, extending the limits of jurisdiction beyond the parishes to which I there alluded, and enlarging the powers of the Commissioners, by the style and title of “The Court of Requests for the Town and Borough of Southicarh, and Eastern Half of the Hundred of Brixion, in the County of Surry Three Commissioners to have jurisdiction over debts not exceeding Forty shillings; and five over debts not exceeding Five pounds.

By the above Statute it was enacted, That several Fees and sums of money following, and no other, should be taken by the Bailiff ', CLerhs, and Officers of the said Court of Requests, for their respective services in the execution of the Statutes 22d and 32d of King George II. instead of the fees limited and expressed in the former of those two Acts; viz.

v

To

* Commentaries, edit. 4to, yol. III. pp. 81—83,

COURTS OF CONSCIENCE.

To the Bailitf.

For every Summons -

For every Summon.' for the Attendance) of not more than two Witnesses* - - $

For every Hearing on Trial - - - For every Order, Decree, or Judgment,)

on Hearing - ...... £

For paying Money into Court - -

For every Attachment ----

For every Execution ----

For every Nonsuit ----

For receiving Money out of Court, in part For receiving Money out of Court, in full F'or every Search in the Books - -

For swearing every Witness -

For calling the Defendant before the Court

To the Clerks.

For every Summons -

For every Summons for the Attendance) of not more than two Witnesses £

For every Hearing on Trial - - - For every Order, Decree, or Judgment,) on Hearing

For paying Money into Court - - For every Attachment ----

every Execution ----

For every Nonsuit - -- -- -- -

F or receiving Money out of Court, in part For receiving Money out of Court, in full For every Search in the Books -

For swearing every Witness ----

For calling the Defendant before the Court

To the"OFFicERs.

For serving every Summons on Defend- ?

ant, or Witness - >

For serving Notice of Attachment on De-" fendant ---- S

For giving Notice of such Service to the)

Plaintiff - $

For levying Executions on Debts not ex- £

ceeding 15s. - ...... j

Above 15?. and not exceeding 20v. -

Above 20.9. and not exceeding 40s. -

Above 40s. and not exceeding 60s. -

Above 60s. and not exceeding 80s. -

Above SOs -

On Debts nut 0 exceeding 40 . i

.v. d.

- - 0 1 - -

- - 0 4 - -

-- 0 4 - -

- - 0 4 - -

- - 0 4 - -

- - 0 S - -

- - 0 10 - -- - 0 1 - -- - 0 2 - -

- - 0 3 - -

- - 0 1 - --- 0 1 --- - 0 1 - -

- - 0 8 - -

- - 0 8 - -

- - 0 S - -

- - 0 S - -

- - 0 S - -

- - 1 4 - -

- - 1 8 - -

- - 0 2 - -

- - 0 2 - -

- - 0 (i - -

- - 0 2 - -

- - 0 2 - -

- - 0 2 - -

- - 0 8 - -

- - 1 0 - -

- - 0 6 - -

- *• 1 0 - -

- - 1 6 - -

- - 2 6 - -

5.19

hi I), b'»

’ lOVi; 4(Jj.

* . d. 0 8

O 8

0 3

0 8

0 S

1 0

1 2

0 2 0 2 0 I) 0 2 0 2 0 2

1 4 1 4 1 4 1 4

1 4

2 O 2 4

0 4 0 2

1 0 0 4 0 4 0 4

1 0 1 0 0 6

3 0

4 0

5 0

The

50*0 ACCOUNT OF THE INSTITUTION OF

The foregoing Tables of Fees were ordered to be conspicuously hung up in the Court-house, or where the Commissioners meet, that all concerned may see and peruse them at all times.

In consequence of the said Act, the term of imprisonment was ordained to be thenceforth limited as follows; and accordingly it now is, upon each

action.

For all sums under, and up to 2Os. - Twenty days.

Above twenty, and not exceeding 405. Forty days.

Above forty shillings, and not exceeding 31. Sixty days. Above 3l. and not exceeding 5l. - One hundred days.

Courts of the kind in question are deemed, I know, of indispensable necessity, and much convenience, in populous and commercial towns. But one thing I cannot forbear to urge on the subject, as highly worthy of legislative sanction: I mean, some positive clause unalterable, to prevent the coercive recovery of debts contracted for alehouse scores.

As to Courts of Conscience in agricultural Counties, they certainly are of the most injurious tendency.

COURTS OF CONSCIENCE.

561

dency. The plaintiff often loses more time in prosecuting his demand, than it is worth if recovered; which however is very seldom the case. The debtor* is. locked up during the harvest, or other important season, and loses that gain which he had looked to for the support of his family in the short winter-days:and during his absence, they are thrown on the parish for relief. Meanwhile, all the creditor’s satisfaction is fruitless revenge: and to this he not only sacrilices his time, but his money too:For costs he must pay, in the first instance.

(56S)

POSTSCRIPT.

1 HE approbation with which my former narratives of Debtors have been honoured by the Pub-lick, and the essential benefit which some of them have in consequence received by County Allowances, again induce me to present a continued statement, equally, as I hope, adapted to sanction the favours of the one, and to lessen, all we can, the miseries of the other.

With respect to Bridewells, or Houses, as they are called, of Correction, it may truly be said that

“----much yet untouch’d remains;

Much is the Patriot's weeding hand requir’d.” *

All, in short, that hath hitherto been advanced from experimental investigation and well-founded knowledge, exhibits (I am sorry to repeat it,) but a very faint picture of the great misery, and the still greater corruption and depravity, which exist in the wretched

POSTSCRIPT.

f Cn

abodes alluded to 1 do not include all; there are some very excellent exceptions to this censure: but I most seriously and painfully point at several of the kind, to which I was led by accident; and which therefore constitute a part of my Report, as resulting from my personal inspection into prisons.

Of these forlorn retreats, it appears undoubted, that the great increase of immorality is principally owing to the useless, and therefore injurious, state of our Bridewells. They afford little indeed, or nothing, of <f Correction” but the name. In Holland they were called Verbeter huizenthat is, “ Bettering Houses.”

The proper management of such legal asylums from rapidly increasing Vice, is now become matter of more than ordinary concern. For instance, Offenders liable to this mode of punishment, are sometimes committed to a Bridewell, even for so long a term as two pears !

The prisoner, sentenced, for whatever term, “ to cc hard labour, ” often finds no employment.

And to the very important point of separating the prisoners into suitable and safe classes, as little attention too frequently is paid, as to the means of profitable and wholesome industry.

A young creature, ma !e or female, guilty of some petty theft, is often sent to a Bridewell, where the -term of commitment is spent in idleness and filth,

n 2 amidst

POSTSCRIPT.

564

amidst company the most profligate and abandoned! What is this, but devoting the victim of Ignorance to the destruction of Vice and Infamy ? Yet, how' many are there, who may date the total loss of every principle of virtue from the hour of their confinement in those schools of wickedness!

The keeper of every Bridewell should be master of, or well instructed in, some kind of simple manufacture; the better to enable him to set his prisoners to a suitable employment.

But, surely, it argues a reprehensible neglect in the Magistracy, where such employment is not provided. Imprisonment, in the abstract, implies idleness, which wisdom should mercifully preclude. In honest work, most certainly, should every offender be employed. This is so indispensably requisite, that no one should be idle who is not sick. Confinement in idleness not only ruins the morals, but even frequently destroys the capacity for labour.

Happy, or peculiarly fortunate, shall I esteem myself, if the result of my investigations prove sufficiently powerful to call forth the attention of the Magistrates. It cannot fail, if duly persevered in, to lessen abundantly the misery of many a confined fellow-creature. It will tend to correct, and possibly to remove, those vices, which are ruinous to the interests and welfare of our country; and which, if unrestrained by wholesome correction, must combine,

POSTSCRIPT. 56‘5

bine, with other causes, to precipitate its decline or fall.

I do not presume to tread passibus anquis with that great and good Howard, whose steps it is my honour and my wish to follow in the faithful inspection of Prisons. With respect to Bridewells and Houses of Correction, however, my labours have been great and unwearied; and the fruit of my experience may be summed up in few words.

If such places as I have above scrutinized are to be continued as the receptacles of Convicts from gaols; if those convicts are to have a constant communication with young offenders, whose misdeeds are comparatively light, and for the chastisement of which, and the prevention of greater ones. Bridewells and Houses of Correction were originally and solely designed; if also, offenders consigned to such abodes are not classed and separated according to the nature and degree of their transgressions; and, lastly, if no religious attentions are paid to them, as in too many instances is flagrantly the case; then vice and corruption must increase their malignity, through the sanction of neglect: Bridewells and Houses of Correction must become the surest nurseries for our Gaols; and the melancholy list of Executions will be swelled to a degree of horror, ten fold more shocking than humanity has at present to deplore.

TO

566

POSTSCRIPT;

TO THE

REVEREND WEEDEN BUTLER,

Rev. Sir,

I AM unwilling to close these pages without embracing the opportunity they afford me of thus publicly expressing the ardent gratification I feel, in common with you, at the success and stability of this benevolent Society; and of uniting my congratulations with yours on the incalculable benefits which the publick have long derived, and, under Divine Providence, through the most remote periods of time, will, I trust, continue to receive, from its establishment, and the extension of its objects; aided by the bounty of the Christian, the Philanthropist, and the Man of the World, to all of whom the great end of relieving human misery, the peculiar object of the Institution, is of equal consideration.

When I look back to the distant period of our lives, and observe that of the first Committee of the Society, you, Reverend Sir, and myself, remain the only survivors; I cannot but feel the most powerful, and at the same time, the most humble gratitude to the Great Disposer of all human events, for having suffered me to live, and witness the happy

result

POSTSCllIlT.

5 G7

result of our early and well-meant endeavours. And when I pursue the course of reflection, and find, that in addition to the consequences naturally attendant upon an advance in years, I labour under painful infirmities, that hasten to plunge inc into that awful, yet hopeful, gulph of death, which has already absorbed our fellow-labourers in the vineyard; I confess I feel an irresistible impulse to embrace this, perhaps the last and only opportunity I shall ever have, of publicly commemorating, as far as the feeble efforts of an humble individual will be allowed to extend, our joint exertions in the same great cause; and of "testifying the sincere pleasure with which I at all times recur to the early intimacy and long-continued friendship, which has formed one of the unfeigned sources of the comfort and happiness of my life.

With growing and well-merited esteem, Sir, I witnessed your successful qxertions in behalf of the Society, at its earliest institution:Often have I felt the influence acknowledged by all who have heard the eloquent and impressive Discourses which you have delivered from the pulpit, in recommendation of the objects embraced by this Charity; and never, whilst I am permitted to retain the power of memory, can the gratifying recollection be effaced, of the glow of surprize and pleasure, which beamed from every countenance around you, upon

the

5$S

TOSTSCRIFT.

the receipt of one hundred pounds sent by a then unknown, though eminent advocate for suffering humanity; no more than can the impression of that active zeal with which you personally assisted, to search out the objects of misery, who were relieved from the deepest affliction by its timely application.

The leading share you took in forming the plan, which has afforded such permanent benefit to this enlarged and improving establishment, bespeaks the soundness of your judgment, while it pour trays the natural goodness of your heart. It has left those impressions of gratitude and respect on the Society, and upon the min'd of your humble and faithful friend, which cannot be described; and can only be felt by a due appreciation of the manifold benefits which the publick derive from the establishment of the institution itself.

The happy effects produced on society by the exemplary conduct of a good and virtuous man, has been often the subject-matter of your pathetic and convincing discourses. But in no instance, Reverend Sir, under the grace of God, does the doctrine appear more manifestly established, than in the general character of the offspring with which you are blessed; and whose superior excellence, at the same time that it reflects splendour on themselves, distinctly

* See the List of Benefactions, at the end of this volume, under u Godolphin."

emanates

-Postscript.

jO'J

emanates from the virtuous example of the parent. And here, suffer me, Sir, without disparagement to the rest of your family, who have equal claims to your commendation, most sincerely to congratulate you on the promotion of your son Doctor Butler to the eminent situation he fills; the reward of his virtues; of those early advances which your tuition enabled him to make in literature; and which can only be surpassed by the modesty of his deportment, the liberality of his sentiments, and the purity of his Christian principles *.

* George Butler, born 1774, and educated solely at Ills father’s seminary, till 1790; when he was admitted a scholar on the foundation of Sidney-Sussex College, Cambridge, and in that capacity obtained, repeatedly, exhibitions and prizes, classical and mathematical. In 1794 he took the degree of B.A. when, after a public examination, he was named the Senior Wrangler and Senior Prizeman of his year; and being, thereupon, chosen Mathematical Lecturer of his own College, became soon afterwards a fellow of that Society. In 1797, he took the degree of M.A. and was soon after appointed Classical Tutor. In 1804, he took the degree of B. D. with great credit, and was elected a Public Examiner in the University. In 1805 he was nominated one of the eight Honorary University Preachers, and in April of the same year, chosen Head Master of Harrow: after exhibiting to the Governors of the School, and to his Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, such honourable testimonials of character, from the chief dignitaries and school-men of Cambridge, as perhaps were never before bestowed on any member of that learned body. He received the degree of D.l). by Royal Mandate, bearing date 27th April, 1805.

Thai

570

POSTSCRIPT.

That you may both, with the rest of your children, long continue reciprocally to reflect honour on each other, on your households, and our common nature, is the sincere and earnest wish of.

Reverend Sir,

Your faithful Friend,

JAMES NEILD.

If to any of my present readers the above tribute of esteem appear irrelevant, and unnecessary to the end proposed by the publication of the work, it is upon the candour of those readers, and of posterity, who may hereafter deem these sheets deserving of their consideration, that I am willing to throw myself:indulging the hope, that the same regard for mankind which induces them to the perusal of the work, will not be denied to its frail author; who fondly imagines, that his humble record of an unreserved attachment which, through all the vicissitudes of human life, has continued with unabated zeal for forty years, will not be read without some of those emotions of pleasure which glow in his bosom when he recurs to them.

("571)

CURSORY HINTS

FOR THE

INTERNAL REGULATION OF PRISONS,

UNDER THE EXISTING LAWS RESPECTING PERSONS CONFINED FOR DEBT.

I. That there should be a general and total abolition of Fees and Room-rent; and a proper salary, in lieu thereof, allowed to the Gaoler by the County.

Because, u no man should derive emolument from misery and, as the practice now prevails, even though a poor debtor may obtain his right to be discharged by supersedeas, or through the lenity of a merciful creditor, he is yet liable to be detained at the arbitrary will of a Gaoler for his Fees, or till an Act of Insolvency is passed for general relief: And thus the Gaoler is allowed to be both Judge and Jury, and to inflict a punishment for enforcing his own demand.

II.

572

CURSORY HINTS FOR HIE

II. That in all cases of pauper-debtors, the prisoner should be suffered to verify his condition on oath before a Magistrate; who mav thereupon make an order for a weekly allowance to be paid the prisoner out of the County-rate.

Because, in some gaols the county allowance is two shillings weekly; in others eighteen pence; and in others one shilling per week; whilst in many prisons there is no allowance at all; to the great hazard, not of health only, but of life.

III. That encouragement should be afforded to debtors for working at some manufacture, to be provided by the county, by giving them two thirds at least of the estimated value of their daily labour *.

IV. That a Chaplain be appointed to every Gaol, and the debtors indispensably required to attend divine service, except in case of illness duly certified.

V. That a proper Medical Assistant be assigned for every Gaol, to afford relief to those indigent prisoners, who are afflicted with sickness.

VI. That there should be an entire separation of the debtors from the felons.

* See my Remarks or. DORCHESTER, p. 165, and GLOUCESTER, p.

Because

INTERNAL REGULATION OF PRISONS.

57 3

Because (to adopt the language of a great moral writer,) “ From such an association springs every corruption which poverty and wickedness can generate, with all the shameless and profligate enormities that can he produced by the impudence of ignominy, the rage of want, and the malignity of despair. In a prison, the awe of the public eye is lost, and the power of the law is spent: there are few fears, there are no blushes:the lewd inflame the lewd; the audacious harden the audacious. Every one fortifies himself as lie can, against his own sensibility; endeavours to practise on others the arts which are practised on himself; and gains the kindness of his associates by simi-*. litude of manners. Thus some sink amidst their misery, and others survive, only to propagate villainy -fw”

Vll. That salutary provisions, for the internal government of prisons throughout the kingdom, be generally prescribed and enacted by the Legislature. That, in the mean time, a Committee of Visiting Magistrates be appointed at the Quarter Sessions of every district, to frame proper Rules and Regulations for their several gaols, according to their *

* Dr. Samuel Johnson, “ Idler," No. 38.

locality

57 4

CURSORY HINTS.

locality and peculiar circumstances; to be afterwards confirmed at the Sessions, and duly approved by the honourable Judges of Assize:That, for better accomplishing the important end proposed, a Journal of occurrences be punctually kept by the gaoler, for the inspection of the worshipful Committee, and all other Magistrates of the county immediately concerned:And, lastly, that such Rules and Regulations (equally extending their view to the deportment of the Gaoler, or Keeper, and of the prisoners, of every description, under his charge) be conspicuously printed, and placed in various parts of every prison; so as that all parties alike may know the clear lines of duty by which to regulate their respective conduct.

(575)

OBSERVATIONS

ON

ARRESTS UPON MESNE PROCESS,

FOR

SMALL DEBTS, &c.

The prisons, notwithstanding the recent Act of Insolvency, are already crowded with debtors on mesne process, for sums under 30/. About four fifths of the debtors sent to prison are for debts under 20l. and of this class, on the 4th May 1807, there were forty-eight in Newgate.

As to a farther restriction of the law of arrests on mesne process, we are not left without a guide:our ancestors, above eighty years ago, restrained the law of arrests, on process from the superior courts at Westminster, by preventing them for sums under ten pounds *.

By this law, thousands of debtors have been saved from imprisonment; and, if revised, it might be the means of avoiding the enlargement of prisons, or of passing more frequent Acts of Insolvency. As money decreased in value, the benefits intended by this law gradually diminished. We may remember,

* 12 Geo. I. c. 29,

ARRESTS ON MESNE PROCESS,

member, that, above 30 years ago, Newgate, the King’s-Bench, the Fleet, and other prisons, were considerably enlarged; but their future di-

* O

mensions must depend upon how long it shall please the wisdom of Parliament to keep this law stationary; on the increase of poverty and population; or, on a speedier recurrence to Insolvent Acts, to make room for fresh prisoners.

The pressure of the times urges many to run in debt, without a reasonable prospect of payment; but, whatever may occasion Insolvency, the means of payment are not increased by arrests for small debts: it will, therefore, excite no surprize that the poor debtor cannot escape imprisonment.

It has been argued, that arrests, even for small debts, were useful, as a stimulus to settle the action, and prevent much expensive litigation. Thus the evils, though great, are supposed to be productive of more than a counterbalance of good; but the evils are certain, while the advantages proposed are doubtful, and refuted by experience *. The number of actions settled is less, and the executions more, in bailable actions, than in actions not bailable; a clear proof, that an arrest (particularly for small debts) cainjot be the chief motive to a compromise of the action, much less to payment, in the event of Insolvency; and in that case, the process is severe;

* See Table on Bailable Process, pp. 40, 41.

the

FOR SMALL DEBTS, &C.

577

the speculation must fail: no stimulus can work an impossibility. In the case of disability, from indigence, the man arrested, and destitute of friends, cannot find bail: Idle produce of the arrest, therefore, is a fruitless imprisonment.

If ten pounds seventy years ago were equal in value to thirty pounds at this day, the letter of the statute may remain, while its benevolent intentions, founded in legislative wisdom, may be defeated. To shew the policy of a further restriction, proportioned to a decrease in the value of money since that period, suppose the law against arrests under ten pounds repealed:the number of prisoners would be increased, by embracing a still larger class of poor debtors, and prisons would soon overflow.

By a statute of the present reign, to check such arrests in the inferior courts *, perhaps more than 500,000 arrests have been prevented, within the last 20 years; but it never has been contended that the credit and commerce of the country have thereby been in the least impaired:on the contrary, during this reriod they have attained to the highest pitch of prosperity.

Tvery creditor shares in the speculation of an arrest (whilst the chance of success is clearly diminished, when the party has neither money nor friends); but the practice is pursued from habit,

- ip Geo. III.

ARRESTS ON MESNE PROCESS,

57 S '

although often with reluctance, lest one lenient creditor should lose an advantage, - which another gains bjr severity. It is but too common to find in the sheriff's hands several writs against the same man, at the same time, for trifling debts, from 10 to 12/.; so that by the expence of the remedy upon this class of debtors, their means of payment are reduced in proportion. If, therefore, only for small sums the speculation were destroyed (which, from experience, can serve no other purpose than to encourage desperate games of chance); the debtor, left at his liberty, before he could be reached by an execution, and freed from the expence of such arrests might be able to compromise the action; from which he is now totally prevented, by incurring costs, that eat up inevitably all his funds.

The evils of an indiscriminate system must, in many cases, bear hard. The extension.of the Law of Arrests to simple-contract debts (although, as a general rule, wise and just) was an innovation on the antient law of the land; and yet, for the security of creditors in a commercial country, it is universally admitted as necessary. Principally, however, it affects the inferior class, the most helpless and numerous, by a continuance of imprisonment, for want of bail, (consequent on practice, different from the course originally pursued; ) and stands in need of legislative correction.

The

FOR SMALL DEBTS, &C. $/J

The true question is. Can the evils be diminished, without lessening the security of creditors ? II so, necessity requires the interference of the Legislature; and, if lessening those evils would tend to augment such security, Justice seems to require a law so perfectly consistent with humanity.

The Law of Arrest may remain general, for the protection of creditors, that every one may enjoy its advantages; but when it is seen to fail of that effect, (as it will in all cases of poverty, which may still abound), the Law should interpose in favour of the honest, though unfortunate Debtor, by limiting the time of imprisonment, under certain restrictions.

For general security, therefore, Let an imprisoned debtor be considered as a party in delicto, suffering a punishment occasioned by his own misconduct; but let provisions be made to check the severity of the general rule, so as to connect the Law with hu-inanity and substantial justice. See the preceding “ Observations on the Law of Civil Imprisonment, ”

P- 34—37* .

Let the Law of Arrest be open to every class of creditors, when the debt is of a certain amount *: and when the object of the Law, so far as respects coercion of payment, evidently fails, let the Law (allowing an attack on personal liberty for that particular purpose) rescue the debtor from imprisonment.

* Suppose not less than 3d,

0 o a

by

ARRESTS ON MESNE PROCESS.

5 SO

by wholesome provisions, not counteracting, but operating as exceptions to the general rule.

Let the debtor’s person be discharged, on evidence of insolvency, within a limited time, —the future property to remain liable:and let these exceptions operate only in favour of the honest and unfortunate. For this end, the creditor should mahe out a case of fraud, or of gross misconduct, to authorise a continuance of the imprisonment, at the discretion of the Court, or of some tribunal authorized to take; cognizance of the charge; and aided, if necessary, by a Jury

Thus, while the Law of Arrest is allowed without limitation, for the security of creditors, as a mean ', to enforce payment, when it fails in that object, it will, in the event of a continuance beyond the time limited by general rule, be deemed a punishment for misconduct. Humanity will thus be reconciled to Justice, and the Innocent will be separated from the Fraudulent; not by chance or caprice, but by the sure Operation and Effect of Liw.

* Suppose ^Threc Commissioners.

i

I i

i

q to

XU til l 0*10.

(5«2)

LIST

OF

GENERAL AND ANNUAL BENEFACTIONS.,

FROM THE

INSTITUTION OF THE SOCIETY IN FEBRUARY, 1772* TO THE 31ST OF MARCH, ISOS.

Those marked with are Governors for Life. Annual fienc* factors may at any time recommend objects.

Benefactions.

Anonymous:including Donations of less than Ten Guineas, long since sent in, either with proper Names or various Initial Letters: Also Sums, of whatever Amount, whether with Initials, Names, or Symbols, that have been regularly advertised in News-papers, after the Meetings of the Society, or noticed in the Books of Report, published with its Sanction; and whose Donors are supposed to be deceased. All which sums (like those hereafter specified) remain individually entered in the Records of the Society, together with the Dates and Circumstances under

which they were respectively received - 10, 592 7 5

Anonymous:P. by Isaac and John Walker, Esq. .. 1, 575 O 0 •*'*'The Trustees of Bishop Andrews’s Charity - 2/72G O O .

Atwick.

LIST OF KENEFACTrON'S.

Atwiek, Win. T^srj. .. f> Q O *Aubrey, Mory, Esq. 21 0 0

* Agutter, Paul, Esq. 50 8 O

A. H..:. .. 160 0 0

A. C. St. Thomas'.-; 240 O O A Lady, by Rev. Dr.

Trotter - 21 0 0

A Lady, by Rev, Anthony Natt - 4G 18 0

* Acland, Rev. John. 25 15 0 '*'*Angerstein, J.J. Ksq. 42 O 0 *Antrobus, Kdm. Ksq. 21 O O A. B’ by Treasurer SOO 0 0 A. B.byDorrienACo.50 0 0 A. B. by Biddulph and

Co - 100 0 O

A. B. in Letter Bov 300 0 0

A. E ...... 20 O ()

A.G.byFidleramlCo:40 O O

A. X ...... 20 0 0

A.B.X ...... 20 oo

A. B. C ...... 200 O o

A. H. per Hoares .. GO 0 0

A. F ...... 21 () O

A. Y. S. 5 I. each .. 15 0 0

A.B.Y.X ...... 20 o 0

A Philanthropist, by

Mr. Dornford, .. 100 o 0 A Lady unknown .. 40 o o

Ditto, byHon.P.Pusev3 o 0 Ditto, by J. Bourne,

Esq - 20 0 0

Adams, John, Esq - 15 o o Abbott, Pet. hon. C.. .15 15 0

A Friend - 52 14 G

Ditto, by Rev. T. Thirl-

wall - 85 0 0

A Friend to Honesty in

Distress - 20 o 0

A Friend - 7 o O

Aust, George, Esq. 14 14 O *'*Auberton, P. Esq. 27 10

Askew, Adam, Esq. 18 18 0 Askew, Arden, Esq. 8 3 0

Ainbeek, Maria - 55 O O Adair, Dr. James M. 3 3 0

Allen, L. B. Esq - 8 8 0

Asheton, Mrs - G Go

5^2

, A Widow, per Messrs.

Hoares - 5 3 0

A Donation, per Bid-

dnlph and Co. .'. 100 o O

Argill, Mr. ........7 o O

A Lady, per Biddulph

and Co - 6<) 0 o

A Lady - GO 0 O

A Quaker, (socalled) lOO o O

Ditto - 50 0 0

A Lady, from Manehes-

ter-squaru - . 35 O O Aininadab - 20 o O

Alpha - 10 O O

1

B.

Barham, Right lion.

Lord, V.P...... 103 H> O

Belgrave, Lord Vise. 20 O O *Butler, Rev. Weeden 4 1 O

* Broadhead, Theodore-

Henry, Esq - 1G2 17 O

* Bradney, John, Esq. ‘15 1 O

Biadney, J.jun. Esq. G 4 o Bradney, Mrs.oflIam25 3 O Browne, Isaac-Hawkins, Esq. .........17'S 10 O

* Biddulph, Cocks, and

Ridge, Messrs. .. GS 5 o Biddulph, R.M. Estj.

M.P ...... 5 5 0

Buckinghamshire,

Countess of - 20 10 O Bimbmy, Sir Charles,

Bart - lo io o

Bom eric, Hon. B. .10 O O *Bosanqiiet, - II. Esq. 21 O O Buller, J. Esq. M.P. 35 10 O *Brewster, Mr. W. ..39 IS O Bassett, Rev. John . 10 10 0 *Burgess, Hugh, Esq.

per Treasurer.. 2300 o o •-Boultbee, Jos. Esq. 99 15 o *'-Brereton, Cha. Tre- *

lawnev, Es(|...94 10 O

B. by the Rev. Dr.

Gaskin - 5 5 0

Brown,

5?4

LIST 6p BENEFACTIONS.

Brown, James, Esq. 10 0 0

* Brown, George, Esq. 21 0 0

Blown, Robert, Esq.

Avlesbury 5 5 0

* Boone, Th.omas, Esq. 81 15 0

* Boone, Charles, Esq. 40 0 0

Brunton, Mrs. E. .. 29 c 0

* B]adea, Mr. John .. 33 12 0

Bath, Rt. Hon. Lady 63 0 0

* Brook, Rev. I. K. S. 22 12 0

* Battve, J. Esq 25 0 0

* Bree, Martin, Esq - 22 1 0

* Barclay, David, Esq. 35 0 0

Barclay, Edw. Esq 5 0 0

Biner, William, Esq 0 - 0 0

Brickwood, J. Esq. 10 10 0

Brickwood, X. Esq 0 2 0

Brickwood, L. Lsq . 5 5 0

Brodie, A. Esq. M.P. 5 0 0

Bowness, Major .. 5 5 0

Blackstone, Rev. C. 1 1 0

Barrow, Mr . i 1 0

* Bell, Rev.Dr 70 0 0

Bell, J; unes, Esq. .. 10 10 0 Baldwin, Wm. Esq. 6 6 0 Blakesley, Wm. Esq. 5 0 0 Blackman, Geo. Esq. 25 5 O

Broughton, Lady .. 5 5 0

Boa!:, Jacob, Esq. .. 15 0 0

Beck, James, Esq. .. 5 5 0

Bettsv. orth, Mrs - 3 0 0

« Baker, Peter Wm. Esq.5 5 0

B B ...... 20 0 0

* ^Bootle, Edward- Wil-

braham, Esq. M.P. 51 0 0

Bulkeley, G. T Esq. 10 0 0 B. C. per Messrs.

, Hoares - ICO O 0

B. G ...... 100 0 0

* Baskerfie!d, T. Esq. 21 0 0

Bingham, Lady Ann 3 0 0 Booth, Fred. Esq. 10 10 0 r Bathoniensis, perTrea-

surer - 10 0 0

Bibo - 10 0 0

Benign o Numine - 2 Go

Burnett, Sir Francis, .. Bart. the Annual Dividends of 1000 I.

3 per Cent. Ccnseh, for ever f.

C.

Collections at sundry Churches, Chapels,

&e. since the Institution of the Society

in 1772 ....... 2353 16 S

* Cremorne, Rt. Hon.

Lord Viscount .. 21 0 0

Carlisle, lit. Hon. Earl

of - 20 0 0

Cuitis, Sir Wm. Bait. 10 10 O *Curtis, Thomas, Esq. 35 0 O Caldwell, Wm. Esq.. 5 5 0

Caldwell, George, Esq. 2 2 O Gddwell, Andrew, Esq .2 2 O *Charle\vood, Rev.C.B.57 16 0 *Chamness, Jas. Esq. 107 15 O

Cranmer, Mi's - 27 6 0

* CottreIl, John, Esq. 35 14 O

* Currie, William, Esq.72 10-0

Clementina - 16 0 0

Crowder, Mr. J.....13 13 O

Corbett, Peter, Esq. 12 12 0 Cornwall, J.jun. Esq. 5 5 O Clarke, Mr. William .. 9 9 0.

Coxe, Daniel, Esq. .. 3 3 0

Crofts, Mr. Daniel .. 2 2 O Cotton, Sir Cha. Bart. 2 2 0 Cock, Mr. Alexander 1 10.

Clive, Henry, Esq. .. 1 10.

Creyke, Governor .. 13 13 O *-Colpoys, Admiral Sir

John, K.B. .. .; 22 SO Coney, Bicknell, Esq. 36 15 O.

Gumming, Geo. Esq. 16 16 0 *Crawshay, R.ich.Esq. 21 0 0

C.M.anuf'.D.perSec.20 0 O *Clarke, Wm. Esq. 100 O O Colquhoun, Patr.Esq. 2 2 0

t N.B. The Stock purchased, and vested in Trustees, 1808.

Chatfield,

LIST OF BENEFACTIONS,

Chatfield, Mrs. Al. .. 8 SO Charlett, Rich.Bourne

Esq - 0 GO

Charleson, Mr. Luwr. 1 l o Calvert, Peter, Esq. 10 10 0 Calvert, Miss Maria 5 5 0

Chatteris, Wm. Esq. S SO Cator, John-Augustus, Esq - 4 4 0

* Craster, Shafto, Esq. 40 O' o

Cooper, R. B. Esq. 0 0 0

Clarke, Tho. T. Esq. 10 10 0

Cotton, John, Esq. 2 0 0

^ Campbell, Capt. Pa-

trick, Ii.N 30 0 0

^ Crawford, Cha. Esq. 21 0 0

Crawford, Mrs. Robt . 5 5 0

Cruttenden, Captain 5 0 0

Cruttenden, J. Esq, 5 5 0

C. B. R 50 0 0

C. S. E 15 15 0

Clifford, Henry, Esq . 1 1 0

Coape, ----, Esq. 2 2 0

Cadby, William, Esq. 2 2 0 Claridge, John-Fellows

Esq - 2 2 0

Coote, Mr. per Blox-

am and Co - 1 10

D.

* De Dunstanville, Rt.

Hon. Lord - 30 10 0

. Dimsdale, Hon. Baron

dec - G2 10 0

•*^Dornford, Jos. Esq. 54 12 0 *f Dimsdale, Tho. Esq. 24 3 0

* Dolben, J. Eng. Esq. 40 19 0 Darrell, Andrew, Esq. 2 2 0

Darrell, Edward, Esq.33 T2 0 •*DiT-Prd Porcher, Jos.

' Esq - '______38 17 0

Du-Prc, Mrs - 10 10 O

, Dawson, Mr - 5 0 0

' *Dawson, Wm. Esq. 29 8 0

Dawson, W. Esq. Bath 2 2 0

Dawson, Mrs - G GO

* Dnirnmond, J. E q. 94 10 0

585

* yDrummond, A.B.Esq.64 O 0 Drummond, II. l-Aq. 5 5 O

Dickson, Mrs - 74 5 0

Douglass, Lady E.dee.2G 11 (L-*l)ouglasS, J. J. Esq. 30 O O Denne, Cornel. JCs<[. 15 15 0 Drinkwater, Lt. Col. 2 2 0

Dennison, Wm. Esq. £0 OO Down, Richard, Esq. 5 5 0

Dobrce, Miss Judith 150 0 0 *Da\v, William, Esq. 30 O ()

Durst, Mr - 2 2 0

Domville, Wm. Esq. 4 4 0

Devonport, John, Esq. 5 5 O

Dalrymple, llobt. Esq. 4 4 0

D. s’ ...... 10 10 o

Diana, per Treasurer 10 0 0

E.

* Eardley, Right Hon.

Lord 130 5 0

E. I. Esq. dec. St.

Thomas’s 7 GO 0 0

* Edmonston, Sir- Ar-

chibald, Bart. 21 0 0

Eiliston, Rev. Dr. dee. 42 0 0

* Eyles, John, Esq. .. 42 1 0

E. N 4G5 5 0

E. B. by Mr. Welford 10 0 0

E.G.byFuIlerandCo. 40 0 (f

E. per Messrs. Hoc.res90 -0 0

* Et\vall, Ralph, Esq. 2G 5 0

Edmonstone, C. Esq. 18 IS .0

Edmonstone, Sir E. 4 -4 0

x-Elliott, Wm. Elliott,

Esq 21 -0. 0

Enderby, Charles, Esq.4 4 0

Enderby, George, Esq. 4 -4 0

*Evton, Rev. John 21 0 -0

Elv, Lord Bishop of 20 0 0

* Evcrslield, Wm. Esq. 17 O XL

F.

* Fadcn, Mr. .......73 10-0

Field, Lady - 2 0 0

Freeman,

5S6 LIST OF BENEFACTION'S*.

i Freeman, Thomas-Ed-

wards, Esq.._d<g. for the Gaols of Gloucester, Worcester, and

Warwick 300 0 0

Freeman, Thomas-Ed-

wards. Esq. dec. for '

G cru ral Purposes 41 18 0

Fletcher, Walter, Esq. 10 10 0

Foster, John, Esq - 15 15 0

F. R 50 0 0

* Maurer, James, Esq, 31 10 ()

Free, Nathaniel, Esq. 10 0 0

Free, John, Esq. dec. 25 15 0

* FrceJ Peter, Esq. .. 21 ^"Forljes, James, Esq. 31 0 0

lo 0

Forbes, Charles, Esq, 5 5 0

F. G. per Messrs. Gold-

nev 10 o 0

Fawcett, Rev.Thomas 2 2 0

* x Preach, George, Esq. 23 O 0

Foxton, Wm. Esq. 1 Forbes, Sir Win. Bart. 1 0

dec 10 10 0

Friend, Rev. W. M... 5 0 0

Franeklin, John, Esq. 8 s 0

Fryer, Mr 4 4 0

Feilitzseh, the Baroness

de - 9 DO

Pothcrgill, Dr. A....5 5 0

Forrester, Peter, Esq. 2 2 0

F} dell, R. Samuel, Esq.5 5 0 Flower, Richard, Esq. 2 2 0

Frewin, llev. Dr - 4 4 0

Fletcher, Rev. Henry 5 5 O

Fanshaw, John, Esq. 5 0 0

* Fry, William, Esq - 21 0 0

Fullerton, G. A. Esq. 5 5 O

Feilowes, Mrs - 2 0 0

Fell owes. Miss F. L. 1 10

Fa* ima, per Treasure r20 O o Flora, per ditto - 20 0 0 Felix Spa - 2 0 0

Godolpiiix, Rt. Hon.

Earl of, dec - 100 0 O

^ Gloucester, H. It. H.

the Duke of, dec. 52 10 O’ Gloucester, 11. It. H.

the Duchess of, dec. 70 0 O

* Grafton, His Grace the

Duke of, .........30 10 O

GuikH’ord, Right Hon.

Earl oi dec - 94 10 O

* xGwydir, Right Hon.

Eord - 21 0 0

Galloway, Lady Dowager Frances, .... 21 O O' Gardiner, W. Esq. cicc.84 0 O

Gardiner, Mrs - 5 5 0 *

Greville, Mrs. Hester11 11 o

Greville, Mr - 6 0.0

Greenwood, Wm. Esq.4 4 0

G.W.Z. dec. by Mtv

Grass well 405 4. G

*’*Grimston, H. Esq. _. 24 O kJ 0

Gastrill, Mrs, J. dec. 10*0 0 0

Grindlay, Rev. Dr - 12 12 O

* Gunning, Sir Robert,

Bart 200 0 0

Godwin, George, Esq. 15 0 O

s*Grcgg, FnincLs, Esq. 21 0 (>

Gambier, J. Esq. 10 0 0

* Gambier, Viee-Adm. 35 0 o

Green, William, Esq. 5 5 0

* Goodman, Geo. Es<p of

Leeds 21 0 0

Glvnn, Lady Carr - 4 4 0

Grant, Henry, Esq. 2 O. o

Gay, Nicholas Esq. 2 o, (>-

Gage, lloiTble Mrs. 1 Goldney, Mr. Thomas 2 i O-

o o-

* Gordon, Alex. Esq. per

Rev. Sydney Smith25 5 O’ *Gorc^on, Alex. Esq. 31 10.O

Gooch, Mr. T. S.....1> 0 O

* xGoldsniid, A. Esq. 21 0 O

Gavin, Mr - 1. 1 O

G. S. a Lady - 19 12 <>

G. X........‘.........20 0 0

G rat kina, per Treas. 20- O O

Gm -well, Mr. Sec. 10 10 G

LIST OF BENEFACTION.^.

H.

Hertford, the Most Noble Marquis of,

dec - 810 0 0

Hertford, the Most Noble Marquis of,

V. P ...... 11(1 5 0

Hardwicke, Pari of,

dec - 80 10 0

ferries, Sir Robert and Co - 105 5 0

Herries, Robt. Ecq. 18 18 0 Herries, Francis, E<n. 4 4 0

Hume, Alexander, E-q.2 ‘2 0

Hamilton, Sir 11. dec. 23 2 0

Hamilton, Lady. 5G 14 0 *Hoare, Henry, Esq. and

Co - ‘25 7 0

Hoare, Wm. H. Esq. ‘20 O 0 Hoare, William, Esq. 1 10

Hoare, Mrs. Beckenham, ...... 30 0 0

Hoare, Wm, Esq. Durham, ...... ‘2 2 0

Hoare, Wm. Esq. per

Vere and Co - 1 10

I lovard, Rt. Hon. Ld. ‘20 0 0 ^*Harman, John, Esq. 80 0 0

Harman, Mrs - 10 0 0

Hardcastle, Jos. Esq. 10 10 0 Hammer-dey, T. Esq. '20 0 0 Hunter, Robert, E^q 8 8 0

Hyde, Mrs. dec. 11‘2 H) 0

Holder, Airs. Bath 8 SO *Holner, Ja. Hooper,

Esq - 31 10 0

Harrison, Mat. Esq. G GO

Harrison, Mrs - 3 3 0

•^Hamilton, Arch. Esq.48 G 0 •*Hatsell, John, Esq. 57 15 0 Hodgson, Miss - 21 00

Hodgkimon, Rev. H 5 5 0

Hallifax, Savi’lle, Esq.10 0 0 Harper, R. I. Esq.. 13 13 O Horton, Eusebiu=, Esq. 3 3 0

•*rIorton, S. Esq - 25 5 O

* Haliburton, D- Esq. 47 5 0

0S7

* MIiirris, Quarles, Esq.450 O 0 Holland, Richard, Esq.tj <; O Holland, Mr. per Dr.

Lettsom - 1 Of)

Holland, Edu. Esq 1,) o o I hr.don, W illiam, jun.9; o

Haulon, Miss - l l o

Huggcrston, J. E-iq.. G G o Harvey, Mr. Richard, 1 () ()

Her\|’y, \\'. AritMuny 2 () ()

H. S ...... 12 in G

Hannan, Edw, Esq. 1() 10 0

H. D. Y ...... 30 10 ()

H. G ...... 20 0 o

-*Hopeton, M. C. Esq. 30 o o I fart, W. Ne\ il, Esq. 2 2 O

' Hughes, Rev. Dr. G G 0

Herbert, Mr 10 0 0

* Hale, Tiioinas, Esq. 21 0 0

* -Hale, I. Esq 30 0 0

Hare, Mrs. Henrietta 5 5 0

Hcnckcr, Hon. Gen.¥. 1. 5 5 0

* 'Harrison, Benj. Esq. 21 0 0

I iarboi'd. Lady Cai'ol. 20 O 0

Hodgkinson, E. Esq. 10 10 0

ilooinan. Miss, S. 3 8 0

1. and J.

I. P ...... 120 0 0

"-Ives, William, Esq. 23 2 O

Ives, E. Esq - 1 10

Ives, Cornelius, Esq. 7 7 0

I. G. per Treasurer 20 0 0

I.I.perMcs.-.rs.HoaresGO O 0 Jellery, George, Esq. 15 10 0

Joyce, Mrs - 80 0 O

Jeiferys, Nath. Esq. 18 IS 0 Jcnner, Rev. Dr. 14 14 O

l.X ...... 100 0 0

* Jacques, Mr - 4S GO

James, Mr. Jos. pm. 5 5 0

James, lloughton, Esq.5 5 O J ark-, . 10, James an’r! Co.

Mogadore, ........5 5 0

Jackson, J. G. E?q. 9 9 0 *"Jostgmnnl, M. Esq. 100 O O I. D. for W. G. .13 G 8

1 r'Jenkins.

LIST OF BENEFACTIONS.

Jenkins, Rich. Esq. 110 0 0

Johnson, Wm. Esq . 50 0 0

Johnson, Jas. Esq. 330 0 0

Johnson, G. Esq - 9 3 0

Johnson, Mrs O 2 0

Johnson, Mr . 10 0 0

Johnston, Mrs O 2 0

Johnston, Miss - <? O 0

J. J 50 0 0

Jones, Mrs. A. . 4 1 0

Jones, Mr 1 1 0

Jones, IMr.C. P. .. 12 12 0

Jones, Mr 5 0 0

I. K. per Hoaves .. 100 0 0

1. S. G. per Fuller: md

Chatteris . 20 0 0

Idle, Messrs . 10 10 0

“ Jack gives this”. 10 0 0

K.

* Kerry, Rt. Hon. Earl

of - 260 0 O

* Knightly, Rev. Sir J.

Bart - 56 11 O

Kempenl'ek, G. A. Esq.

dec 500 0 0

Kelham, Robert, Esq. 15 15 0

Kneller, Mrs 1 1 0

Kerr, VV. Ksq.Edinbur. 3 3 0

Keppel, Hon. Mrs.. 19 19 0

Keate, Mi's 2 2 ()

Knightly, Mrs 1 1 0

* Kirkman, John, Esq. 75 0 0

Kcstevan, Mr. James, 2 o 0

* Kindersley, X .E.Esq. 35 15 0

* Knatchbull, Wyndhani

Esq 21 0 0

Kiinpton, Mr. Wm - 2 2 o

Keddington, R. Esq. 1 1 0

L.

Leicester, Rt. Hon.

Earl of - 5 5 0

Lmhington, Sir Stc-

plan, Bait.dec. ..15 15 0

L. W. a Lady - 10 10 O

Lady H. W........ 10 10 0

Lady M. W........ 10 10 O

Lady A. B........2 2 O

Leheup, P.jun. Esq. 100 0 0

Leheup, Mrs - CO 0 0

Leheup, S ...... 2 20

Leheup, Mrs. Jane. .15 15 0 *La\v, Ewan, Esq. .. 66 3 0

L. VV. Ciericus - 54 7 0

* Lettsom, Ur. J. C. .. 29 8 0

Le-Fevre, C. S. Esq. .. 6 6 0 *Lock, William, Esq. 36 15 O Lownds, Thos. Esq. 15 5 0

LowncLs, Rich. Esq. 20 0 0

Lownds, Millies, Esq. 5 0 0

* Lind, F. Esq - j.. 74 10

Lane, Mr. Thomas 2 7 6 0

Langham, Sir Wm.

Bart 20 0 0

Leicester, Ralph, Esq.5 5 0

Lewis, Thomas, Esq. 2 2 0

Lillington, A. 8. Esq. 16 16 0

Lewis, James, Esq. 14 14 0

Lington, Mr 2 1 0

Leigh, Rev. Thomas 36 15 0

Leitrh, Rev. Mr - 10 10 0

Leigh, Thomas, Esq.

Isle of Elv 2 o o

Leigh, Mr. of Sutton 1 1 0

Lloyd, Lady, per Bid-

dulph and Co 2 o 0

Lynne, Mrs. per Mr.

Goldney 2 2 0

Lncan, I)o\vagerCoun-

tessof 12 0 0

And 5/. per annum,

for ever. Dividends

of 125/. 4 per cents.

Lewis, Izrael, Esq. .. 2 2 0

Lee, llcv. Sir George,

Bart 3 3 o

Lee, James, Esq 4 4 o

Lee, Mrs - 2 2 0

Larkin, I. P. Eso 2 2 0

Legardly.Hemy, Esq. 10 10 0

Lomas, Rev. J. E... 10 0 o

Livina 5 0 o

Llgacie *

LIST OF BENEFACTIONS.

5S;;

LEGACIES received, viz.

Lady Osborne.. .. 20S 0 0 Mr. Daniel llemy. .100 0 0 Mrs. Henrietta-Maria

Tomlinson - 405 0 0

John. Cale, Esq.. 200 O 0

A Lady - 50 0 0

Mr. John Bispham. .50 0 0 Mr. B, pbeit Clee.. 50 O O Mis. Marv Bourne. 100 0 0 Lady Cath.Noel. ... 10 O 0 W. Congreve, Esq.1000 0 0 Mrs. Ann Campbell. 10 0 0 Mrs. Mary Wylde 100 0 0

Mrs. Eliz. Cumyns. 100 0 0 Wra. Crewe, Esq. 74 1G 0 John Darker, Esq. 50 0 0

Mrs. Cutts - 37 0 0

Rev. Isaac Cooper. .50 0 0

John Barnard, Esq.300 0 0 L. D. Nelme, Esq. 10 0 0 Tho. TolsonJ Esq. 200 0 0

John Boldero, Esq. 50 0 0 James Harley, Esq.200 0 O

John Corbyn, Esq. 52 7 0 Mrs. Mary Wilson,

10001. Consols. G31 5 0

Charlewood Lawton

Esq - 20 0 0

Mrs. Culling - 200 0 0

LillieAynseombe, Esq20 0 0 Mrs. Marianne Hayes20 O 0

Mrs. Gastril - 200 0 0

Lady Grant - 735 9 7

John Howard, Esq. .50 0 0 William Pooley, Esq. 100 0 0 John Buynard, Esq. 1000 0 0

George Stainbi idge.

Esq - 182 10

John Sweet, Esq.. 30 0 0

Nathaniel George Petit. Esq - 21 0 0

Mrs. Rebecca Lee 24G 0 0 CharlesSelwyn, Esq. 100 0 0 Bercher Baiil, Esq. 100 0 0 Edward Heylyn, Esq. 10 10.0

Thomas Lane, Esq. 47 o 0

Mrs. Knapton 10 o 0

KalphKirkham, lv>qlMO 0 o

Mr. Charles Belliard 25 0 o

Mrs. Schank 400 0 0

William Shambrooke,

Esq 500 0 0

Wilson Pears*>n, Esq. 47 0 0

William Fuller, Esq. 117 o 0

John Peto Debell 10 0 o

Mis. Ann Oswald. 259 17 G

Thomas Fuller, Esq.47 o o

Mrs. Martha Spagg. 94 0 0

Mrs. Margaret Squires,

10001. 3 per Cents.

Red G25 0 0

James Pell, Esq. .. 1S8 0 0

Peter Du-Cane, Esq. 10 O O Miss Anna Maria Reynolds - 200 0 0

Ja. Hawkins, Esq. 525 0 0

JosephGalloway, Esq.94 0 0 Mrs Maitha Fletelierl 8 1G 0 Tho. Binstead, Esq. 18 8 0

John Walton, Esq . 92 0 (> Mrs. Ann Taylor. .183 0 0

Gen. George Wardel05 1G 0 Benjamin Allen, Esq. 90 0 0 William Chiveis/Esq.90 0 O

J. H. Esq - 100 0 0

Ja. Preston, Esq. .4170 2 6 Mr. Cha. Tomlinson 4G O 0 Mrs. Kath. Hyde.. 45 0 0

Mrs. Whetham - 180 0 0 Thos.-Edwards Freeman, Esq - 100 0 0

LEGACIES in expectancy } and which, depending on contingencies, cannot j et be ascertained.

Rev. William Scott, late of Ipswich, in the county of Suffolk.

William Scullaid, Esq. late of St.

590

LIST OF BENEFACTIONS.

St. Giles's., Cambcnvell, in Surry.

Archibald Stewart, Esq. late of Mile-end Old Town, St. Duns tan’s. Stepney, Middlesex.

John Shainbrooke, Esq. late of Croydon, Surry.

M.

* Marsham, Rt. Hon.

Lord Viscount.. 20 5 0

Marshani, Hon. Mrs. 74 11 0

* AIavnai-d, lit. Hon.

Lord 21 0 0

Alolcsworth, Hon.W. 10 o 0

Manger, Joshua, Esq. 10 10 0

Alicklewaite, J. Esq. 10 0 0

* Maniott, Win. Esq. .31 10 0

Marriott, Dr 11 11 0

Marriott, Mr 10 10 0

IVIarriot, Rev. Dr. ... 5 0 0

Morland, Wm. Esq. 10 0 0

Morland, Francis, Es(j. 2 2 0

Miller, Lady, per Treasurer 37 10 0

Marrissal, N. Esq. 20 0 0

* Alavor, John, Esq.. 01 10 0

Mangles, Messrs. John

and James 29 s 0

* Mitchell, Gilbert, Esq. 52 10 0

AIcCullocli, H.E.Esq.lO 10 0

Matcham, Mi’s S s 0

Museris, Solomon, Esq. 2 o 0

Mar rat t, John, Esq. 14 14 0

Aiello, Arnold, Esq.. 5 5 0

Malkin, T. Esq - 12 12 0

Malkin, Wm. Esq. 10 10 0

Middleton, Nath. Esq.5 5 0

M. B. Mrs. by Rev.

Mr. Babbs 10 10 0

Moore, Lady 70 0 0

Moreton, Rev. Wm. 10 O 0

Marshall, Rev. Edw. 12 12 0

* Marsh, John, Esq.

Chichester 23 2 0

Mansby, Robert, Esq. 14 14 0

Martin, Ambrose, Esq. 4 4 0

Macdonald, Felix, Esq.5 5 0

Mc Cleland, Mr - 2 o 0

Methold, Henry, Esq. 10 5 0

* Musgrave, Ja. Esq. .25 4 0

Musgrave, Mrs - 10 10 0

March, All’s 2 o 0

M. N 40 0 0

“ Mvself and Friends.” 5 0 0

Manning, Air. George 2 o 0

* AIajoribanks, S. Esq. 23 o 0

* -Meyer, James, Esq. 121 0 0

* AIevcr, Air. H 21 0 0

Aiartin, Henry, Esq. 4 4 0

Martin, Airs. Penelope S 8 0

Aiartin, Alatthew, Esq.2 o 0

*Miller, Sir John Riggs,

Bart 70 0 0

Miller, John, Esq. 35 0 0

AI. E. Y. per Biddulph

and Co 10 10 0 *

•*Mildmay, Sir Hcnry St.

John, Bart. AI. P. 25 5 0

Mildniav, Lady - 10 5 0

* AIilncr, George, Esq.22 1 0

Aland, John, Esq - S 8 0

Mitchell, H. C. Esq.. 5 5 0

Alarter, Wm. Esq. .. .9 9 0

Aletcalfe, Rev. Wm.. 2 O O '

Maxwell, Capt 4 4 o

Alontague Baril, Esq.l 1 0

Alestaers, J. F. Esq. 2 o 0

Alontague, G. Esq. 2 o 0

Alendham, John, Esq.l 1 0

* ^Master, Rer. L. H.. 31 10 0

AI. E. A 30 10 0

Aleyriek, Rev. T.... 5 0 0

AT. C. H 21 0 o

M. P. P 10 10 0

M.E.H. per Lucadou

and Co - 10 10 0

Morvina, per Treasurer - 20 0 0

Mole, per ditto - 10 00

Montagu, Hon. Mi's.

9th Benefaction. .10 0 0

-N..

LIST OF BENEFACTIONS. ’><) 1

X.

^ Noild, James, E, q.

Treasurer 75 12 0

Norman, George, Esq .10 10 0

Nixon, Mr. Nicholas 18 18 0

"Norris, Mrs CJJ 0 0

Neale, Mr IO 0 0

Nunn, Win. Esq. .. 7 7 0

Newman, Win. l^cwi s.

Esq - 2 2 O

X ewnuin, Mr. John 10 0 0

Nuvni>s, per'I’reasnrcr25 0 0

Nemo, ditto - 10 0 0

Nab, ditto - 20 0 0

1).

O. P. L. Rev. Dr. .. 1-1 14 0

Oliver, Mrs - 20 0 O

Oliver, D. Esq - 10 0 0

Owen, Hugh, Esq. .4 4 O

Oakes, Mr - 10 0 0

0‘Brien, Dennis, Esq.2 2 0 Onnnuney, Edward,

Esq - 5 5 0

Olive, Jeremiah, Esq.4 4 O

Olive, Miss - 4 4 0

Old Noll (Letter-box) 10 0 O

1 P.

Pusev, Hon. Philip,

V. P ...... 170 3 0

Puscy, Lady Lucy’. .47 5 0

* Plumer, Tho. Esq. 21 0 O

Pearce, W. Esq. 12 12 O *Pepperell, Sir Win.

• Bart - 27 GO

Pulteney, Hon. Mrs.30 10 0 Pulteney, Sir Jas. Bart. 5 5 0

P. A ...... 21 0 0

* Pattle, Thomas, Esq.23 2 O Powell, Mr. David. .11 11 O *Paxton, Arch. Esq. 44 2 0

* Paxton, Sir Win. ..39 18 0

* Priinatt, Dicey, Esq.33 12 0 *Pcp\s, Sir \\illia111

Weller, Bart . 98 14 0 *'Park, Janie* - Allan,

Esq - 31

Pott, John, Esq. «Zt<:.40 Phillipps, T. March,

‘>q - -

Phillipps, Mr*. March 7 Parks, Richard, Esq. 57 Pitt, Thomas, Esq. 12 1\arson, W ikon, Jvq Pell, James, Esq. da. 80 Platt, Thom is, Esq. 20 Pinnock, James, Esq. 17 *Pigoil, Robe rt, Esq.GO Polhill, Charles, Esq.

dec - 12 12 O

Proctor and Brow nlov. 5 0 0

Pitt, Win. Morton,

10 O

5 0

12 O 7 <»

15 O

13 0 2 o

10 o o o 12 0 10 O

Esq. M. P. . 12 12 0

Paton, George Esq. 5 5 0

xxPackwoocl, yji . 2G 5 0

Persse, P. Esq G G 0

Persse, Mi's.. 5 0

Precious, Robert, Esq.G G 0

Penyn, Rev. Richard 2 O 0

Pote, Edward, Esq. 13 1 1 G

Plumptrc, Rev. James,

Clare-hall. 3 O D 0

0 0

' "'Pieschell, Charles,

Esq - 21

* Powell, John Clarke,

Esq - 21 00

* Prime, Samuel, Esq. 52 10 0 *Pepys, 'Charles Christ.

Esq - 21 OO

Plummer, Tho. Esq.

per Treasurer - 10 10 O Pigott, ltev. James. .1 10

R.

Romney, the Right Hon. Lord, dec. late President of this Society - 99 15 o

Roiuney,

LIST OF BENEFACTIONS.

S.

* Stamford and Warrington, the Right Hon. the Earl of 155 0 0

* Stanhope, the Right

Hon. Earl - 21 0 0

St. Vincent, Rt. Hon.

Countess of - IS IS 0

Smith, Sir John, Bart. 15 15 O *Stanhope, C. Esq. .SO GO Sykes, Rev. Sir Martin, Bart. dec. 170 0 O *Smith, Mr. Joint. .240 0 0

Smart, Richard, Esq. 8 8 O

Spilling, Mr - 10 10 0

Spranger, John, Esq. 20 O O Squire, Mr. William. .2 2 0

Squire, Mrs. Elizabeth 4 4 0

Shipman, Mrs - 21 0 0

Scott, David, Esq.dec.10 10 O Sidgraves, James, Esq 15 0 0 Sidgraves, Sullivan,

Esq - 2 2 0

Shiffner, Mrs - 42 7 0

Shiffner, Mr. T.... 35 0 0

Seeker, Rev. Georgel2 6 O Seeker, Henry, Esq. .1 10

Stockwell, John, Esq. 6 6 O Stafford,

LIST OF BENEFACTIONS. 5<L>

Stafford, Lady - 3

S. P. Mis - 42

S. G. per Fuller and

Co - 20

Stevenson, Rob. Esq. 10 Sturges-Bourne, Win.

Esq. M. P.........2

Swiney, Vice-Admiral Snow, Robert, Esq. 5 Sansoni, Ph. Esq. ... 8 Soltau, Win. Esq. G Soltau, George, Esq. 6

Soltau, Mrs - 3

Sauniarez, Sir James,

Vice-Admiral - 2

Saumarez, R. Esq. 4 Sykes, Rev. R. West-

Ella - 20

Sykes, R. jun. Esq.. 10

T.

Talbot, the Rt. Hon.

Earl, dec - 57

Tufton, the Rt. Hon.

Lady Charlotte.. 230 Temple, Hon. Mrs. 21 Taylor, Sir Rob. dec. 23 *Trevor, Right Hon. *

John - 52

Trevor, Hon. Mrs - 3 Thornton, John, Esq.

dec - 15G

* Thornton, Hen. Esq. 7 0 Thornton, Mrs. II.. 10 *Thornton, Rob.Esq.21 *Thornton, Sam. Esq.77 Thornton, Wm. Esq. 4 Tilson, the Rev. Geo.G *Thompson, Robert,

Esq - 37

Tvvol .adies, fi'oni Man-chester-square. 49 Two Ladies of Dorsetshire - 5

* Tamez, James, Esq. of Moscow - 45

3 0 x xTaylor, James, Esq. 23 O 0

0 0 Theakstonand Welch-

man 71 8 o

0 0 Trelawny, Rev.Sir 11. lo lo o

0 0 Thompson, And. Esq. lo () 0

z* "-a 3 3 0 0

2 0 Thonqison, Seth, Esq. 7 7 0

4 0 *Tvnvhilt, the Rev.

5 0 Robert 80 0 0

8 0 T. X 100 0 0

G 0 Thellusson, Peter, Esq

G 0 dec 31 0 0

3 0 Trigge, Mrs 15 15 0

Trigge, Gen. Sir Tho.

o 0 K. 15 10 10 0

4 0 Tavlor, Capt. John,

Madras 5 5 0

0 0 Tomlinson, Capt. X.

0 0 Royal Navy 1 1 0

Till, Mr. Henry 2 o 0

Trevelyan, John, Esq. 10 10 0

Trevelyan, Mis. 10 It) 0

Trevelyan, W\ 15. Esq. 7 i 0

Toplis, John, Esq 5 0 0

15 0 Tagg, Mr 2 o 0

Thomas, W7 Em|. G 0 0

0 0 Tavlor, Mr. and Mrs. S 0 0

0 0 Tookc, John-Horne,

2 0 Esq 1 1 0

0 0

3 0

V.

5 0

0 0

10 0 *Yyvyan, Rev. Sir Ca-

0 0 rew, Bart 30 10 0

15 0 *Vansittart, George,

4 0 Esq. Rl. P 21 0 0

G 0 Vansittart, Hon.Mrs 14 14 0

Vernon, J. G. Esq.* 12 12 0

15 0 Viner, William, Esq 14 14 0

Ycre, Lucadou, and

19 0 Company 21 0 0

Unwin, Mi's 5 0 ()

5 0 Vibilia, by Treasurer 2q 0 0

Yenoni, ditto - 0 0

0 0 Yita 5g lb 0

^ nkno\vn.

94

LIST 01 BENEFACTIONS.

i

Unknown, sent in a - penny-post letter, to the Treasurer at Chelsea - 1000 0 0

W.

Willoughby de Broke,

Lord - 330 15 0

* \Vatson, Mr. IV.. 76 GO *\\ ilberforce. Win.Esq.

M. P ...... 99 15 0

Walker, Isa. Esq. dec. 41 10 0

W. H. by Treasurer 100 0 0

* Woolff, George, Esq.44 2 0

Waddington, Messrs.

of Nottingham. ... 2 20

Waddington, B. Esq.36 5 0 *Ward, John, Esq. .37 16 0 *Walter, Mr. John.. 37 16 0 Wedgwood and Byer-

ly, Messrs - 94 10 0

Wansey, M7m. Esq. .. 5 5 0

Wansey, J. Esq. ... 12 12 0 Wood, Richard, Esq. 5 5 O

W.H ...... 120 0 0

W. H. of Newcastle. 50 0 0 Wells, Mr. J. Smith 16 16 0 Walker, Mr. Charles. 16 16 0

Wallace, Mr - 12 11 0

* Woods, Edm. Esq. .32 11 0 *Whitfield, John, Esq.33 12 0 Wrangham, Rev.Fra..4 4 0 Webb, Miss, Gloucester 2 0 *Wilbraiumi, It. Esq 55 5 O

Wilbmham, Tho. Esq.5 5 O

Williams, Rev. W. of

Waterbeach - 10 10 0

Wainwriglit, Mr - 3 30

Wainwright, Mr.Win. 3 3 0

Wilson, Mrs. Mary. 21 0 0 Wilson, Mrs. Saiah 21 0 0

Mare, James, Esq.. 14 14 0 v M right, Wm, Esq. .21 0 0

Watts, D. P. Esq . 42 0 0

Warren, Aug. Esq. 6 6 0

* W\ line, Cha. W. Wil-

Hams, Esq 36 15 0

Woods, John, Esq 3 3 0

M ad, Wm. Esq. ... 10 0 0

M inter, Matthew, Esq.8 8 0

M ebb, Richard, Esq. 2 2 0

Worrall, Mis 2 2 0

Winslow, Mr 2 0 0

M'orninek, Rev. Dr. 2 o 0

* VVarre, Thos. Esq. 25 0 0

M ilson, Lady 50 0 0

M\ S. M. 0. 1). 201.

each, per Messis.

lloares 100 0 0

MYguelin, J. C.Esq. 10 10 0

Mintour, Cha. E. Esq. 2 o 0

MHttington, Mr. Rd. 1 0 0

M7. L. per Dorrienand

Co 25 0 0

X.

X. X Z ...... 100 0 0

X. X. per Treasurer 100 0 0

X.A.perBiddulph and

Co - 100 0 0

X. Y ...... 70 0 0

X. X. X. X. a banknote, per penny-post. ...... 10 00

Y.

Yorke, Hon. Mr - 20 10 0 Young, Hon.Dowager

Lady - 40 0 0

Yonge, Rev. Duke. 10 10 O Yonge, Rev. James. .3 3 0

Y.Z.perMess.Hoares50 O 0

Y. Y. Y ...... 20 0 0

Y. Y..: ...... ioo oo

Y. G ...... 15 0 0

(5 93)

A Summary View of the Money Annually Expended by the Society for the Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts, from its Institution in 1772, to the 31st of March, 1808.

PRESIDENT,

The Right lion. EARL of ROMNEY.

VICE- PRESIDENTS.

The Right Hon. Earl of Radnor.

The Most Noble Margluis of Hertford. The Hon. Philip Pusey.

Right Hon. Lord Barham.

James Neild, Esq. Treasurer. AUDITORS.

Arch. Hamilton, Esq. Thomas Smith, Esq Robert Pigou, Esq.

R. Grasswell, Secretary.

J772 No. of Debtors Expended.

to discharged and relieved. £. S. d.

1774 1772 for the Sum of 4622 17 1

1775 996 1724 1 11

177« 1842 T 0 O O

1777 1729 19 7

1778 779:1764 0 11

1779 811 1611 15 3

1780 628 1288 17 1

1781 321 S28 15 9

1782 389 935 3 9

1783 1121 12 0

1784 535 996 12 3

1785 463 904 9 1

Carried over 8791 £. 19, 370 17 11

17S6

590

VIEW OF THE society’s

No. of Debtors Expended.

discharged and relieved. £. S. d.

Brought over S79I 19, 370 17 11

1780 339 715 8 9

1787 .. 343 . ... 719 9 10

178S .. 710 1566 4 24

1789 . .. 612 1926 3 34

1790 .. 798 2303 9 34

1791 666 1777 0 6

1792 460 1297 14 7

1793 .. 568 1870 1 5

1794 .. 540 1844 14 94

1795 .. 434 1438 6 1

1796 - 481 0 5

1797 490 1606 15 0

1798 645 2001 13 6

1799 - 578 14 5

1800 .. 648 2106 16 10

1801 .. SS5 2870 4 4

1802 .. 1125 2607 11 1

1803 .. 927 2892 14 0

1804 .. 916 2 1

1805 794 2707 8

1806 .. 657 2283 10 6

1807 .. 839 2S17 9 1

1808 .. 848 3395 17 5

24, 094 i£. 66, 015 7 6>

The 24,094 Debtors had 14,446 Wives, and 40,795 Children

I 79, 335 Persons immediately benefited j for £. 66, 015 7s. 6$d.

Present in an Annual General Court, held the 6th of April, 18 08.

The Right Hon. the EARL of ROMNEY, P. The Hon. Philip Pusey, V. P.

James Neild, Esq. Treasurer.

W. Morton Pitt, Esq. M. P. Rev. Weeden Rutler.

Arch. Hamilton, Esq. Thomas Pitt, Esq.

-Thomas Smith, Esq.

George Vansittart, Esq. M. P. Robert Pigou, Esq.

Mr. Welchman.

Mr. Faden.

Mr. Walker

THE

ANNUAL EXPENDITURES, &.C.

THE Average for Debts of the before-mentioned 124, 094 Debtors, is £.2. 14.?. 10|d. each; and for every Individual l6\s. 7id.

* These Averages include every incidental Expenditure attending the Management and Distributions of the Charity.

It is probable, that the public Benevolence has been dispensed to double the Number of real Objects; because the Families of many Creditors being themselves in very necessitous Circumstances, were all essentially benefited by the Composition which they accepted instead of the Debts due to them.

The Society never pay the whole Debt; yet, to prevent future Litigation, the Creditors are required to give Receipts in full for Debt and Costs.

From the great Number of Debtors discharged, compared with the small Sums paid for each, it is manifest, that those poor Manufacturers, Seamen, and Servants, who have been the peculiar Objects of the Society’s Attention, are in the humblest Rank of Society. Their Debts were too small and too few to entitle them to the Benefits derived from any of the Acts hitherto calculated to relieve Insolvent Debtors; the Society have therefore generally compounded their Debts, and paid their Fees, after a Writ of Execution had issued.

The Time of Imprisonment may be Months, or even Years, before such Objects can have Relief

598 VIEW OF THE SOCIETY’S

from Insolvent Acts of Parliament: It follows, therefore, that so long a Confinement from their Families and Employments, would be attended with Consequences very fatal to those Families, injurious to their Employers, and particularly burthensome to their several Parishes; who, whilst the Husband is in Prison, must relieve, and often maintain, the unhappy Wife and Offspring.

In some Prisons, the distressed Debtor is obliged to associate with Felons; the Depravity of whose Morals, in every view, but too frequently influences those Dispositions of the Debtors with whom they converse; and who, until such destructive, fascinating connections, were not abandoned to Vice, though perhaps imprudent.

To such Debtors the Society have ever shewn a fraternal regard, by rescuing them as soon as possible from an Imprisonment infectious botli to Body and Mind: thus preserving their Families from becoming Vagrants, or chargeable to the Parish, and restoring to Manufacturers, to Agriculture and Trade, many laborious Hands; who, with regard to their Exertions in Society, are ultimately the Nerves and Strength, and Riches of’ a Nation; inasmuch as their Labour efficiently, though almost imperceptibly, contributes to the welfare of every Individual in the superior Orders of Life.

ANNUAL EXPENDITURES, u c.

3DD

Influenced by, these clear principles, founded, not only upon sound Policy, and true Philanthropy, but, above all, upon the benevolent principles of genuine Christianity, the Society hope, !>v the Bounty of the Public, to he enabled to persevere in relieving those Debtors, who may he found worthy, distressed, and friendless:Men, whose Burnings, even when in Employment, can often aflord hut a bare Subsistence; but who, unemployed, must either contract Debts, or fly with Despondency to illicit Means, as the only Resource from Starving !

It is a very material Wish of the Society for Debtors, to diffuse the public Liberality so far, as to extend to all the Country Gaols; where a Prisoner is frequently confined at a Distance of lS or 20 Miles from his Place of Abode; the Creditor, for want of Importunity, forgets him; and the miserable Being himself can receive no temporary Relief from his Family or his Friends.

The Mode of Application is by printed Petition, to be.had of the respective Keepers, grads, which the Petitioner is directed to send, Post-paid, to Craven-Street: full Information for filling up the Blanks is therein contained in the marginal Notes.

To obtain Benefit from this Charity, each Petitioner is obliged to name two reputable Housekeepers, as Vouchers for his Integrity, Sobriety, and Industry; to whom the Society constantly refer

600

VIEW OF THE SOCIETY’S

their Inquiries, and by this Means preclude almost the Possibility of Imposition.

No Debtor can be relieved a second Time, unless it be evidently made appear that his Confinement arises not from his own Fault.

It is a fixed Rule of the Society, never to pay more than a Composition for any Debts, wherein the Lawyers’ Bills are not included.

Plaintiffs must always be Losers by Prosecution for Debt, though more or less so, according to their Circumstances. This the Society ever take into Consideration: and it is a principal Object of their Attention, to demonstrate to the lower Class of People the exceeding Folly of being so stimulated by their Passions, as to go to Law with Fellow-Creatures, poor and miserable as themselves!

Upr* Every annual Benefactor of Two Guineas is eligible to be on the Committee.—The Sum of Twenty Guineas constitutes a Life-Governor.

Persons disposed to contribute to the Support of this Charity, may see the Books of the Society’s Transactions, and receive any further Information, by inquiring of the Secretary, at No. 7, Craven-Street, Strand.

BENEFAC-

ANNUAL EXPENDITURES, &C.

COl

BENEFACTIONS ARE RECEIVED BY

James Neild, Esq. Cheyne-Walk, Chelsea. Messrs. Herries, Farquhar, and Co. St. James’s-Street.

Messrs. Hoares, Fleet-Street.

Messrs. Fuller and Chatteris, Lombard-Street. Messrs. Biddulph, Cocks, and Ridge, Charing-Cross.

Messrs. DorPien and Co. Finch-Lane, Cornhill. Messrs. Hammersley and Co. Pall-Mall.

Messrs. Vere, Lucadou, and Co. Lombard-Street. Messrs. Goldneys, St. James’s-Street.

Sir Matthew Bloxain and Co. Gracechurch-Street.

And by the Secretary, No. 7, Craven-Street, Strand.

Q. q.

ERRATA.

P. 68, 1. 13, for were read was.

95, 1. 7, for 7s.6d. read none.

124, 1. 6, read Rev. Mr. Holmes.

151, 1. 23, read 3s.

278, 1.14, read 1761.

282, 1.19, read Debtors.

358, 1. 24, for 14, read 15.

1. 25, for 18, read 19.

386, 1. 7, for 1803, read 1804.

509, 1. 7, for Mr. read Dr. Bennett.

THE END.

Printed by J. Nichols and Son’, Red Lion Passage, Fleet Street.

