AN

ACCOUNT

OF THE

RISE, PROGRESS, AND PRESENT STATE,

OF THE

SOCIETY

FOR THE

DISCHARGE AND RELIEF

OF

PERSONS IMPRISONED FOR SMALL DEBTS THROUGHOUT ENGLAND AND WALES.

By JAMES NEILD, Esq. Treasurer,

ONE OF HIS MAJESTY’S JUSTICES OF THE PEACE FOR THE COUNTY OF MIDDLESEX.

PRINTED, FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE CHARITY,

BY NICHOLS AND SON, RED LION PASSAGE, FLEET STREET; 1802.

PRICE SIX SHILLINGS IN BOARDS.

(iii)

TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE

CHARLES MARSHAM, EARL OF ROMNEY,

VISCOUNT MARSHAM, LORD LIEUTENANT AND CUSTOS ROTULORUM OF THE COUNTY OF KENT, AND CITY OF CANTERBURY, PRESIDENT OF THE SOCIETY FOR DISCHARGE AND RELIEF OF PERSONS IMPRISONED FOR SMALL DEBTS.

My Lord,

Whilst the loyal volunteers of Kent are so emulously demonstrating their high esteem of your patriotic spirit, and have raised up a monument* to perpetuate its memory; whilst they so justly record your Lordship’s splendid

A pavilion in his Lordship’s park on the spot where their Majesties dined, inscribed, ”A tribute of respect from the volunteers of Kent to the earl of Romney, lord lieutenant of the the county,” On this occasion 5319 volunteers dined at the tables, after having been reviewed by his Majesty on the 1st of August 1799, at his Lordship’s seat near Maidstone.

iv DEDICATION.

entertainment of our most gracious Sovereign, his nobles, and his people; permit an humble individual, who rejoices on the occasion, and participates in the satisfaction it affords, to offer his mite to the general applause; and add to the memento, an humble tribute of respect to your Lordship’s character.

Permit me, my Lord, to offer you the slowly-ripening fruits of my researches and labours, which have been collected from an examination into the state of the various prisons of this kingdom.

Allow me to dedicate to your Lordship (as the noble patron of an institution, so judiciously, and humanely, adapted to alleviate, and relieve, the sufferings and the necessities of the poor and captive debtors,) this little tract, descriptive of their condition, and the hardships they are necessitated to endure.

DEDICATION. v

It is, my Lord, an offering of gratitude, to which your Lordship’s humanity and benevolence are most justly entitled; and which have so highly exalted the noble name of ROMNEY.

It includes, my Lord, the united suffrages of thousands of our fellow creatures, and inscribes upon this tablet, which your Lordship's own virtues have raised, the indelible characters, which Horace so elegantly pourtrays, “Exegi monumentum aere perennius.”

To the patronage of your Lordship’s venerable father, from the small beginnings of a celebrated divine, the Society owes it's origin; and to your philanthropy, my Lord, must be attributed its present prosperity. You have not only aided it by your pecuniary services, but by unremitted personal attentions, and by nourishment proper to its age. You have brought it forward, my Lord, to public observation,

vi DEDICATION.

and now introduced it as the beloved child of a large body of the community, who have generously assisted by their labours to raise it to maturity, under your Lordship's vigilance, unwearied exertions, assiduity, and care.

“In carcere eram, et venistis ad me,” are words, my Lord, that dignify a coronet, and would ornament a crown: the honour they confer are truly a robe and a diadem, and cannot be applied to your Lordship, disjoined from the elegant description of Job, “When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me; because I delivered the poor that cried, and die fatherless, and him that had none to help him. The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me; and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy.”

May that pleasure and satisfaction, which are the constant companions of a benevolence like your Lordship’s, accompany your humane

DEDICATION. vii

exertions through a long old age; and when the period shall arrive, when our accounts must be given, may you, my Lord, receive that sentence, which shall then be pronounced, “Good and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord!”

Such, my Lord, is the prayer of him, who, with the highest respect, has the honour to be.

My Lord,

Your Lordship’s faithful

and most obedient servant,

James Neild.

Chelsea, March 31, 1802.

(ix)

CONTENTS.

Page

Introductory Account of the Society for the Discharge and Relief of Persons throughout England and Wales imprisoned for small Debts - 1

Rules and Orders of the Society - 29

Forms of Application for Relief - 35

Form of Bequests of Legacies - 39

Present Officers of the Society - 42

Alphabetical Account of Prisons - 49

Postscript - 295

Hints and Observations for the Improvement of the present existing Laws respecting Persons imprisoned for small Debts - 297

Observations on Mesne Process for small Debts, &c. - 301

Report on the State of the Convicts in Portsmouth Harbour - 307

Report on the Condition and Treatment of the Convicts onboard La Fortunee, in Langston Harbour - 312

List of the Number of Debtors discharged, from March 31, 1801, to March 31, 1802 - 323

List of Benefactors and Governors - 323

Summary View of Money annually expended - 353

ACCOUNT

OF THE

SOCIETY

FOR THE

DISCHARGE AND RELIEF

OF

PERSONS THROUGHOUT ENGLAND AND WALES

IMPRISONED FOR SMALL DEBTS.

INTRODUCTION.

The present charity derives its origin from the beneficial consequences of a sermon preached at Charlotte-Street Chapel, Pimlico, and afterwards at Bedford-Chapel, Bloomsbury, in the month of February, 1772.

The collection made at these chapels (exclusive of what has since been collected at other places of divine worship which are so generally marked for the exercise of universal philanthropy) amounted to the sum of eighty-one -pounds one shilling.

To procure relief for the miseries of those unfortunate persons who were secluded from society by imprisonment for inconsiderable debts, was the design of the preacher; and it most certainly operated upon his humanity, as a powerful incentive to his

2 INTRODUCTION.

exertions. His friends very highly applauded his endeavours; and a hundred pounds having soon after been sent by a then unknown hand*, in aid of the intended charity, gave, spirit to the undertaking, and engaged the services and abilities of a set of gentlemen, who readily formed themselves into a committee, to search out for the objects it afterwards relieved, and to form plans for its future permanent and beneficial establishment. They visited the prisons; and diligently, and impartially, enquired into the distresses of those miserable objects of misfortune, who had been separated from their families, rendered useless to society by a deprivation of their liberty, and had no friends to undertake their cause. In this visitation the distress and extreme wretchedness to which they were unavoidably eye-witnesses strongly affected their minds; and they determined therefore to give the publick an account of their proceedings, and of their examination into the state of the prisons elf the metropolis, in hopes that it might operate upon the generous part of the community, as an incitement to their endeavours to forward the humane undertaking, and enable them to accomplish their design on a more extensive plan than in the commencement seemed to be suggested.

---

Accordingly, in April, 1772, they advertised their report, specifying the manner in which they had expended the small sums they had thus collected; and, that with these, namely, the fourscore pounds, they had happily released thirty-four prisoners; most

* The late Earl of Godolphin.

INTRODUCTION. 3

of whom had large families, and appeared to be worthy and useful members of society; some of whom were confined for their fees only. But the committee expressed a great regret at the thought of leaving behind them various other imprisoned suppliants; nineteen of whom appeared to be very great objects of compassion, and might all be discharged for less than one hundred pounds. Of the rest, many were evidently such, as well deserved to share the attention and benevolence of the Publick. The committee therefore solicited the aid of the liberal and well-disposed, and had soon the satisfaction of finding themselves enabled to extend the charitable hand to a very large number of miserable sufferers in confinement; for early in May 1773 (within fifteen months from the commencement of the undertaking) the following statement was published as their

GENERAL ACCOUNT, May 12, 17.73.

£. r. d.

Benefactions to this day - - 2922 11 10 Disbursements to discharge nine hundred

and eighty-six prisoners - - 289219 4

Leaving in their hands a balance of - 29 12 6

In the early infancy of their plan, the committee were hardly sanguine enough to expect so liberal an encouragement, and therefore did not at first take an accurate account of the wives and children of the prisoners released. However, from an inspection of

4

INTRODUCTION.

their books, it appears, that at the period in question, to the 986 prisoners above mentioned as discharged, there belonged 566 wives, and £389 children, making in all 3941 souls, essentially relieved by means of this public institution.

Far the greater number of objects released were manufacturers, seamen, and labourers, whose services, for a long time withheld from the publick by confinement, were now restored to the community. The charity, of course, was found to claim a serious attention, not merely from the avowed humanity of its purpose, but also politically, from the advantages which it afforded to society at large, and which, in a commercial country like ours, could not fail to produce conviction in every judeious mind.

’ In a very short time after its commencement, as appears from their books, the committee had the satisfaction of seeing; that various considerable debts,

O '

to the amount of twelve thousand pounds and upwards, had been, by this means, compounded for, and reduced; and thus a two-fold benefit was secured to the creditor and his helpless debtor, by an equal attention to them both.

The committee became more animated by their success, and their expectations were more highly raised, when they perceived what GREAT EVENTS from LITTLE CAUSES might succeed. They expand the human heart, and lift the soul in gratitude to Ilcaven. The rich cordial of benevolence was now largely flowing out, as upon a once barren soil; and the detart became a fruitful field !

INTRODUCTION.

5

Thus encouraged to persevere in the good work they had undertaken, they determined to omit no means, under the blessing of Providence, of making it prosperous, and adding to it dignity, stability, and success.

At a meeting, therefore, on the 5th of May, 1773, the RULES and ORDERS hereafter mentioned were settled and confirmed.

Such were the exertions of the members of this benevolent institution. The little spark which was casually thrown among such materials, was now kindled into a flame; and many gentlemen of truly philanthropic minds, stept forward to render it, not only their pecuniary, but their personal assistance also.

Thus the SOCIETY for the Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for small Debts, was most completely established; and their office is now held, where it has been for twenty-eight years past, at N° 7, Craven-street, Strand, London; and it is under the direction and management of the following Noblemen and .Gentlemen; viz.

E 3

PRE-

6

INTRODUCTION.

PRESIDENT,

The right hon. the EARL of ROMNEY,

(who devotes much of his time and attention to its welfare and prosperity.)

VICE-PRESIDENTS,

The most noble the Marquis of EIERTFORD. Right Hon. Earl RADNOR.

The Hon. PHILIP PUSEY.

Sir CHARLES MIDDLETON, Bart.

TREASURER,

JAMES NE1LD, Esq.

Mr. R. GrassWell, N°7, Craven-street, Secretary.; to whom applications are to be made by the debtors applying for relief.

Alt

(7)

AN

ACCOUNT, &c.

The laws of our country are very greatly humane in providing for the relief of considerable debtors^ The man who engages for thousands, which, through misfortune, he has it not in his power to discharge, finds a ready resource in bankruptcy:if he resigns his all, he resumes, as it were of course, his occupation and his credit. But the man, who, for the necessaries of life, and to support a dependent family, runs a few pounds, or only one shilling, in debt, is cruelly arrested, is torn from his home and his business, and plunged into a prison; has neither the ability, nor a ray of hope afforded him, to discharge his creditor’s demands. It is therefore the design of this institution to afford them relief; and, upon the examination of the books of this Society, it may be found that Manufacturers9 Mechanicks, Labourers, Seamen, and other useful members of the meaner but essential branches of trade and commerce, whether in town or country gaols, whether natives or foreigners, in distress, are allowed to have a very strong claim to its regard;

8

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

and the committee always prefer the cases of those useful artificers and manufacturers, who are burdened with the largest families; men, who derive their subsistence from daily labour.

However the law of an equal degree' of punishment or of imprisonment at all for small debts, in comparison with large ones, where the circumstances and situation of men are equal, evidently appears unjust, because it suffers that debtor, whose insolvency, perpaps, materially injures a very extensive circle of the community, to enjoy freedom and impunity; whilst it immures in a grievous and noisome prison the other, whose inconsiderable failure cannot much affect his creditors.

A poor fellow-creature, perhaps for the immediate support of life, amidst sickness, unavoidable losses and disappointments, contracts a small debt and has no other possible means to discharge it, than such as arise from his personal industry and manual em ploy. The creditors will have no mercy: the wretched victim is seized, and thrown into prison; the means for supporting his family, or for doing justice to his creditors, are taken away, and he is left to languish in confinement till death, or some fortunate accident, shall, bring him deliverance I What end can possibly be answered by this ? What good can it produce ? Every feeling of humanity revolts at the proceeding, and condemns the act, and it will scarcely be credited, in this age and kingdom of philanthropy, that such cruelties have

FOR. RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS. 9

been exercised, from man to man, even for the mean, the paltry sum of one shilling

The impolicy and inhumanity of this proceeding is sufficiently obvious, for it attaches to other evils great immoralities. Nothing is so likely to corrupt the morals, as a gaol; into which, with whatever good principles the unhappy debtor enters, he is compelled to herd with the vilest and most profligate of mankind, till at length his good dispositions by degrees are enervated, and he too soon begins to adopt the maxims and manners of those with whom he is obliged to associate. It is an old, but an indisputably true adage, that evil communications corrupt good manners: and what the communications of a prison are, every one can readily understand.

The national benevolence, which gave being to this Society, is entitled to an account of the result of its experience. Books are therefore continually open for the inspection of the publick, and the meetings of the Society always invite the assistance of those who wish to concur in so humane a design as that of relieving the distressed, or of promoting a reformation with respect to those laws or customs, which relate to the impolitic practice of imprisonment for small debts.

Surely such a reformation is not less practicable in our own, than in any other country! Imprisonment, we have every reason to presume, may be so regulated, as to secure the creditor, and give stability

* See the Case of Thomas Dobson, Newgate.

IO

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

to property; and, without all question, ths wisdom of the Legislature can as easily provide for the mutual advantage and accommodation of creditor and debtor, in smaller as in greater concerns. As matters at present are circumstanced, the creditor is little, if at all, more benefited by arrest and imprisonment, than the debtor himself. Such at least is the case, if we may be allowed to judge by a long series of experience^from whence we are fully taught, that the end designed by the creditor — the recovery of his debt — is but very seldom obtained by the cruel methods of confinement. Far the greater part of those who have been relieved by the public bounty through the means of this institution, have obtained their liberty, either by a composition paid to their creditors, a supersedeas, or the payment of their fees^so that, in most of the various instances which have occurred, the creditors have suffered nearly, or altogether, the entire loss of their debts, and have been involved in the trouble, vexation, and expence, which generally accompany their proceeding in such attempts to recover them. We can-

O x

not help specifying a particular case in confirmation of the' above assertion.

x\ young man, about twenty-five years of age, who had a wife and five young children, and who was engaged in one of the public-offices, was arrested for several different sums to the amount of about a hundred pounds; and, from a want of competency to discharge them, was shut up fifteen months in prison, and totally deprived of employment; and

then

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS. It

then — all the actions for the sum of six pounds were, by the care and management of the Society, superseded: thus the creditors were deprived of their property, had the expences of their own attorneys demand to satisfy, the poor debtor lost fifteen months of his liberty in the prime of life, and an employment, by which, with attention and industry, he might in time have been enabled to have satisfied all his creditors, and supported his unfortunate wife and infant family.

Resentment, and a thirst of revenge, may excite some creditors to this dreadful mode of punishment; but passions of this sort should at all times be discountenanced; and the power of gratifying them should, if possible, be taken out of the hands of individuals by the laws, because the very end of such imprisonments for debt is hereby absolutely defeated, society deprived of the advantage of many of its useful members, and the parochial burdens of the country very greatly increased. Whilst we are tender of the creditor’s property, we ought to be equally tender of the debtor’s liberty; and to remember, as a counterbalance to the severity of Justice on the one hand, that Mercy should hold the scale on the other.

If then the common practice of the law of arrests militates against the creditor’s advantage, and if the debtor is even more punished by it than many notorious malefactors, it is surely the concern of the Legislature to provide some remedy against the evil, a remedy better adapted to the accommodation of both

12

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

parties, and to the interests of general society. As the laws of arrest and imprisonment for debt novir stand, they certainly are a disgrace to our national character; for by them, actions, not only the most unjust and injurious, but the most inhuman and cruel, may be, and are daily brought against and exercised upon thousands of well-disposed and highly-deserving persons. Under the sanction of these laws, the innocent man, who owes not a farthing, may be barbarously torn from his family, may even languish many months in confinement, till the writ against him is returnable, without a possibility of redress, unlessJie is able to procure friends to become his bail. The plaintiff, who had engaged in the base undertaking, may either avoid the reach of the injured person; or the latter may want the means to seek and obtain lawful retribution, although, as an innocent victim, lie may have endured the greatest distress, attended with the most ruinous consequences to his concerns or domestic happiness. Many instances have occurred of persons who have been so base and wicked as to have made false affidavits against pretended debtors, have arrested, torn from their families, and confined them in a prison, to serve some vile purpose, and there left the injured victims to seek their remedy against the worthless character who is perhaps either insolvent, or no where to be found. The prisoner may, under these hard circumstances, remain in confinment for many months, or two or three Terms, at least, before it is possible for him to procure

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS.

* 3

his release, and then can have no damage for the perjury or false imprisonment, hut by a process at law, which he hath probably not money to engage in. No writ therefore should be issued upon an affidavit only; and, Query, Whether the security of two substantial housekeepers for the appearance of the plaintiff at the trial, and his abiding by the decision of the court, should not be required? Tins would prevent many a false oath, and many a false imprisonment, which possibly tend to the ruin of numbers, and the destruction of their families.

According to the laws of Scotland, no person can be arrested for debt without a previous warning:,

X o '

and the debtor must have fifteen days notice, by a summons to some certain court, and there have a fair hearing:if the debt be just, a caption is granted; but if, while under arrest, he pays, or compromises for the sum, he is immediately released; and cannot be detained a moment for the costs, which are always solely paid by the creditor, to prevent a malevolent or an illegal process. If the debtor be imprisoned, he may inform his creditors, by a public notary, of his intention to take the benefit of the Queen’s Act for Insolvent Debtors; and then, after an imprisonment of eight days, he is allowed to appear before a magistrate, and make a cession of all his effects upon oath, which instantly procures his release, unless a revengeful creditor will engage

7 O O O

(as it is termed) to aliment him, which he must do at that very hour; and the magistrate is empowered to compel the creditor’s allowance of aliment accord-

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

J4

mg to the birth, station, or family of the prisoner, during his imprisonment, at six, twelve, or eighteen pence a day. Such are the regulations by the laws of Scotland; whereas, by the laws of England, the debtor is allowed only six pence a day, for which he must wait five, and sometimes six whole Terms, extending to more than a year; and debtors committed in execution by a court of conscience can have no allowance whatever.

The committee of this institution observe with pleasure, that no charitable establishment hath met with a more universal approbation than this, in which they have earnestly engaged. In the commencement of the plan, the sums that were collected, amounted to only eighty-one pounds one shilling; which the committee having expended, were under great anxiety for the success of its future welfare; but greatly feared that the business must have terminated together with their labours.

However, the benefits they have since by the public bounty obtained, and been instrumental in diffusing among numbers of the distressed orders of mankind, afford them the most heartfelt satisfaction; and they appear by the General Accompts annexed to this little tract.

As many advantages are to be derived from a public institution, which are not to be obtained from individuals, several executors, and public bodies, the guardians of property, to be appropriated to the discharge of debtors, have annually transferred them

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS.

T5

into the funds of the Society, convinced of the highly superior benefits that accrue from their mode of procedure, who are enabled to settle for the discharge of each debtor upon an average regulation by payment of about two pounds twelve shillings, which formerly cost them from four to six pounds.

The benefactions annually received are nearly eighteen hundred pounds, with which the Society discharge about six hundred debtors. But the committee observe with concern that the distresses of the poor have greatly increased, perhaps in proportion to the increased price of provisions, and the decrease of trade and manufactures. They have, however, the great satisfaction to observe, that no objection worthy of the least notice has ever been urged against the plan or tire measures they have adopted. Indeed they speak to the heart; for, at the same time that they appeal to any man’s feelings, both his reason and his judgement must approve them, and his humanity must plead for their continuance and prosperity. He has, perhaps, been industrious and honest in his calling, and solicitous to obtain the good opinion of the world; his affairs have flourished; his wife and his children have been made happy around him, and his reputation has

i

never been sullied; but, in the height of his happiness, and this apparent security, he has been struck by the hand of misfortune, rendered incapable of answering his creditor’s demands, and reduced to poverty. His person is, from that moment, in the power of his creditor, and his integrity affords him

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

I 6

from law neither protection nor relief. The consequence is obvious:he is immediately arrested and committed to prison, because he is unable to pay the debt, and his wife and children are cast upon the world in a state of poverty and misery.

It is in vain for a man, in circumstances like these, to state the honesty of his intentions; his credit is lost, and both himself and family are ruined; and he who had lately tasted all the sweets of liberty, is now doomed to drag out his miserable life in a state of bondage; deprived, for life, perhaps, of all that life could enable him to enjoy. Yet, notwithstanding the exertion of the creditor, in inflicting this punishment for the recovery of his debt, the object of his pursuit is most frequently defeated; as the following observations may serve to shew.

"When one person causes another to be arrested, it is generally for the purpose of obtaining the debt:, his demand therefore is of course expected to be satisfied, either by immediate payment, or by good security:on failure of these, imprisonment generally succeeds; and if the first offers of a compromise are refused, the debtor has seldom any opportunity to repeat them; because, from confinement a decrease of property ensues inevitably, and his ability so to do is lessened in proportion. Tf, upon the deprivation of his liberty, he is hurried to a spunging-house, the expences attendant thereupon are exceedingly exorbitant; and the inconsiderate

O J 7

plaintiff seldom reflects, that it is the property of

himself and other creditors, which, by this mode

of

FOR THE RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS. 2

of proceeding he is hourly diminishing; but, already precipitated in the stream, he plunges on, no less to the destruction of the debtor, than to the certain loss of his own legal claims, and scarcely ever permits himself to judge of the consequences, until his attention is awakened by a long bill from his attorney, a demand for incidental charges. To this it may be added that the defendant, finding the plaintiff inexorable, speedily converts every part of his fuInstance into a ready supply of his wants, to soften the ungenial hours of his confinement; and thereby consumes that property, which, if timely accepted, -might have afforded a decent dividend to the creditor, and delivered the prisoner from his bondage. Thus both deceive themselves in their different pursuits; and hence it is obvious, that a prison, so fir from leading to a recovery of the debt, becomes the whirlpool, as it were, of the debtor’s remaining property.

To imprison for small debts, therefore, on the present system, is unwise and cruel. Unwise, inasmuch as it generally defeats the end sought to be obtained; and cruel, as it sports with the liberties, misfortunes, and distresses of men, for no other gratification than that of revenge; and to proceed thus against the unfortunate with such severity, is what humanity and civil policy blush to sanction.

As the law now stands, the remission of punishment is only in the creditor’s power, who too often, regardless of clemency* becomes a monstrous species of despot, and his arbitrary will can only be restrained

l8 ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

by the unanimous concurrence of the kingdom.

There is, perhaps, no other government in the universe (at least it may be sincerely so wished, for the honour of its legislature) that permits such an authority to be exercised by one subject over the liberty and property of another, as that to which this remark alludes. And it will be needless to object, that bail excludes that authority; since, strange as the fact may appear, it is a fadf that numberless persons in apparently flourishing circumstances cannot procure bail; and then, upon the mere oath of a plaintiff, his power acquires a new energy, which, when exerted, may always confine his debtor to a gaol. Should this happen at the end of Trinity Term, which immediately precedes what is usually called the <c long Vacation the unfortunate sufferer may remain in confinement for six or eight months of the year without any possibility of enlargement, or of determining in any manner the right of his prosecutor in adopting such a measure. And even at the expiration of this period, if his pretension to this right should have no real foundation, yet if it be found to be only specious, the prisoner has no other redress than that of submitting to a long and expensive law-suit, which very possibly the evils of his imprisonment have rendered him incapable of sustaining. If, however, in the opinion of the Legislature, the custom o(arrest cannot instantly and with safety be abolished, nor imprisonment for debt removed, yet surely they may be laid under such regulations, so

FOR THE RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS.

T9

reconcileable to policy and adequate to justice, as to make the confinement of the debtor more tolerable, or more proportioned to the quantum or aggravation of his default, and the claim of the creditor more secure.

If all the expences of unjust arrests were at the same time so well regulated as to fall on the plaintiff, without the formality of a tedious law-suit, it would prevent an incredible number of those which are so greatly villainous and vexatious. But, even as the case now stands, no man should be obliged to lie in prison for months together for his fees only, when he becomes dischargeable, by supersedeas on the discontinuance of an action; since a debtor may frequently and from various causes be relieved from his debt, and yet remain a prisoner for years together from his incapacity to discharge the costs, or pay the fees of prison. This is an evil in our laws, which loudly calls for amendment, and which the wisdom of our legislative body would do well to consider and redress.

But to advert to unjust arrests. A man may be arrested from mere malice or caprice, without being applied to for the debt, and without any account beine; rendered to him of the claim:this has frequently happened, ' and is perhaps sometimes induced by an assurance, felt by the plaintiff, that he shall not suffer for his wantonness; for, unless the suit be carried to an issue, or trial, which he is per- suaded of the inability of the sufferer to atchieve, -

2.0

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

the costs will in course fall upon the person of the debtor.

If the plaintiff therefore could be made liable to the expence, it would in a great measure, if not totally, put an end to such evils; as he would hardly ever proceed to an arrest, without a clear probability of recovering the debt. In the execu* tion of this part of the law, the expences should be made trifling to the debtor, and the fee for examining the sheriff’s office for detainers by other actions should undoubtedly be abolished, as exorbitant and unjust. The sheriff himself should gratuitously cause to be made known to his prisoner whether there be any detainer against him:for the fee in question is exceedingly oppressive; it is an abuse of power, against the operation of which the Society have continually remonstrated, but hitherto have been unable to reform.

If a debtor be arrested and in confinement, he should be regularly proceeded against, without any delay, until charged in execution; and, in default of such a speedy proceeding, he should be entitled to sue out his supersedeas, without suffering the inconvenience of three terms to elapse, which he is obliged to endure, the present practice of the courts not allowing a remedy for this evil.

The Society are aware that the following remark may be offered as an objection: “How can a debtor 6f be proceeded against during a vacation, the et courts being shut ?” It is extremely difficult for an individual to suggest a remedy: but, when we

FOR THE RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS.

21

consider that in both Houses of Parliament persons are to be found, whose learning and experience will enable them to suggest and to afford an adequate remedy, when once the subject is taken into the consideration of the Legislature; it is to be hoped that the importance of the subject will induce the Legislature speedily to deliberate upon it; for the delay of justice is very injurious to a commercial people, and inconsistent with the idea of good government:yet how common is it, for the plaintiffs against persons committed to the city compters, to deliver declarations, and proceed no farther, until the debtor, at his own expence, obtains a rule of court for proceeding to trial 1 In this undertaking, though the expence be small, numberless debtors are not able to defray it, but by the humane assistance of some casual benefactor; nay, and many instances can be adduced, in default of such a friend, of the unfortunate sufferer having sold his cloaths and his bedding to answer this purpose:and afte^: all, after the base conduct of the supposed creditor, and the debtor’s long confinement, the debt has upon trial been proved supposititious, or pretended only, in which case, although the debtor may gain his cause in a court of justice, yet he must submit to the vexatious hardship of having been deprived of his liberty, his time, his goods, his reputation, and his business, without redress; unable to prosecute the villain who ruined him, for he has neither rnoney for law, nor for bread.

22 ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

This instrument, called a declaration, was originally intended merely to set forth at an early period the cause of the action, and the defendant’s refusal to make satisfaction to the plaintiff; and here it may be observed indeed that this instrument should always set forth the names of two persons, as pledges to the defendant for carrying on the action to a trial; but how is it perverted, and that even by the very practitioners of the law of the land itself! According to the present practice, the declaration cannot be delivered to the debtor till a later period, till after the return of the writ, which may be several weeks, according to the distance of time from the arrest, till the return is made, and which is always governed by the term; so that the debtor is punished by imprisonment, at the will of a plaintiff, long before he is, or can be apparently, deserving of the penalty. The declaration, which might be comprised in a few lines, is generally stretched out and tortured by a farrago, not of language, but of Babelisms, an unintelligible jargon of words without ideas, that may well be conceived to disgrace even the law code of a Hottentot, and which would crowd six pages if printed in this book. To these disgraceful evils may be added that, notwithstanding the law has wisely provided that two persons, on behalf of the plaintiff, shall be pledges to prosecute to a trial, yet the names of the pledges inserted in the declaration are always fictitious; John Doe and Richard Roe, who do not exist, and therefore can )t be

FOR THE RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS. 2}

punished, being the ridiculous and sham pledges in the prosecution of a false or pretended claim.

This is an evil and an absurdity which undoubtedly ought to be immediately corrected; for, as it now stands, an innocent man may be punished by means of a law process carried on through a chain of wretched fictions; and the fabricator of these fictions may often escape unpunished, either by an evasion of the laws, or by the amazing expence which ever attends a prosecution against an unjust plaintiff, or the associates of his base proceedings.

As law should be founded in Equity, and supported by Truth, so should its practice be regulated according to the principle upon which it is enacted; and whilst the larger debtor may be restored to his liberty by the mild laws of a bankruptcy, the smaller should be religiously and scrupulously protected against bearing a severer punishment; and, when his effects have been surrendered upon oath for the benefit of his creditors, he should be wholly set free from all future demands, in the same manner as a certificated bankrupt: for the dread of imprisonment gives birth to artful and tricking inventions, it is the parent of knavery, and the nurse of accumulated crimes. If therefore imprisonment could be avoided, a man in distressful and precarious circumstances, convinced that the greatest evil which could befal him under a reverse of fortune would be to give up all his property for the payment of his debts, would then, with a calm and honest firmness, submit to

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

his creditors, make a true disclosure of his circumstances, and a liberal surrender of his effects, relying upon their clemency, as it would establish a confidence between men.

The utility of this institution in behalf of small debtors will appear from the consideration that every poor man’s labour may be estimated at an average value of two shillings and sixpence perday, or three pounds five shillings per month. Now, the Society having set at liberty 1125 imprisoned debtors, the benefit immediately resulting to community will amount to 7312/. iox. supposing each of these persons to have obtained his liberty only two months sooner than he would have obtained it without the assistance of the Society. And if to this benefit should be added the advantage to be derived by the prevention of such numbers of prisoners and their families from becoming burthensome to their parishes, the aggregate amount resulting from the institution will be of vast magnitude and value. This surely is of great moment; and ought to claim the individual attention of the tradesman and the merchant, the patriot and the senator, to unite their efforts in the general undertaking for the good of the community at large.

As such therefore it is that the Society are again solicitous to submit to their consideration a Society, which, since its very humble commencement, has conducted this cause of humanity with diligence and care; which has the honour of being joined and assisted by the pecuniary and personal efforts of

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS.

25

many of the most respectable and illustrious personages of the kingdom, without whose aid and exertions the institution could not have been supported, nor the wretched inmates of the prison restored to their liberty.

The books of the Society, of the account of receipts, disbursements, and other proceedings, are always open for general inspection; and from many of the nobility and gentry who have taken the trouble of examining them, most honourable testimony has been paid; and who, actuated by the pure principles of Christian Philanthropy, have set a noble example, by a generous liberality, for others to imitate and follow.

The number of debtors relieved and discharged within twelve months, from March 1801, amounted to 1125; who had 535 wives, and 1404 children; and the expences attending the same was 2607/. iu. 1 d. The average therefore paid, including every incidental expence of rent, printing, advertisements, books, &c. requisite for conducting the business, amounted to the sum of 2/. js. 3d. for each debtor. Nor were the exertions of the Society confined to the gaols of the metropolis alone, but extended to the various prisons of England and Wales, for no respect was paid to their locality; but the calls of distress were alike heard and attended to, from whatever part or prison they came. And the magnitude of the debt was no object with the

c 5 Society,

2 6

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

Society, provided it could be compromised and brought within the avowed intention of their design.

Upon the Society’s investigation into the state and distress of the debtors, many were found to have been imprisoned for years together for very inconsiderable sums; hopeless of any relief from a charity so humble in its finances, and not professing to take cognizance of very large concerns.

How great then must have been the joy upon their restoration to liberty, when objects so pitiable and indigent were restored to their wives and families, who had by their means once known far more happy, flourishing, and prosperous conditions ! They then became again useful members of Society, and, industrious in their various occupations, were happy in, and highly deserving of, the blessings they enjoyed. And it is but just to add, that the Committee have always been unwearied in their attention in preferring to relieve those whose characters best warrant attention, and whose miseries call loudest for the relief and comfort the Society can afford.

Upon these plain grounds, therefore, it is submitted to the consideration of the judicious and feeling mind, whether an undertaking, thus arduous in itself, and kind to the community at large, doth not merit the warm encouragement of a Nation like ours, the most eminently and nobly distinguished for its policy and commerce, its liberality, and genuine love of benevolence.

The

FOR THE RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS.

27

•The applications made to the Society, notwithstanding all its past exertions, increase; and especially from the county gaols, where the unfortunate debtor, who appears to have been long forgotten by every friend, now seems well informed of the nature of their plan. Objects like these have surely a large demand on public munificence; and there is no doubt but that they will be attended to with regard.

As widely then as the Governors of the Institution shall be enabled, - by the public bounty, to throw open the doors of the prison; and whilst they wipe away the tears of the helpless sufferer, by restoring him to his liberty and his family, in such proportion, and with an alacrity suitable to the claim that shall be made, will this Charity be impartially extended throughout the kingdom of Great Britain to the poor and destitute debtor in the prison, who crieth, but hath none to help him. *

* Classing the debtors according to the amount of their debts, with a definite term of imprisonment applicable to each class, might be the means of checking the career of the thoughtless and extravagant, and render unnecessary the temporary expedient of acts of Insolvency, which, by a side wind, condemn, and in particular cases overthrow, the general system.

SOCIETY FOR THE DISCHARGE AND RELIEF OF PERSONS IMPRISONED FOR SMALL DEBTS.

Craven-street, Feb. 17, 1801.

AT a Meeting of this Society, held on Wednesday the utb instant. Resolved unanimously. That the thanks of this Society be given to their Noble President, the Right Honourable the Earl of ROMNEY, for the honour his Lordship has done them, in presenting the Treasurer’s Report of the State of Prisons to his Majesty; and also for the unremitting attention his Lordship has been pleased to shew, upon all occasions, to the interests of' this institution.

Ordered, That the same be published in the Daily Papers.

' R. Grass well, Secretary.

(29)

RULES and ORDERS

OF THE

SOCIETY

FOR THE DISCHARGE AND RELIEF OF

PERSONS imprisoned FOR SMALL DEBTS.

1, NAME OF THE CHARITY.

THAT this institution be called The SOCIETY for the Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts.

II. OFFICERS.

That this Charity do consist of a President, four Vice-Presidents, a Treasurer, Secretary, and Committee.

III. committee.

I. That the Committee be open to, and consist of, all such persons as are qualified to be Governors.

II. That of the Committee three members constitute a quorum.

D

IV. MEET-

30 RULES AND ORDERS OF THE SOCIETY

IV. MEETINGS.

I. That there be an Annual Meeting, on the first Wednesday in April

II. That there be four quarterly general meetings in every year.

III. And also a meeting of the Committee on the first Wednesday in every month, at Twelve o’clock.

IV. Of all which several meetings, due notice shall be given by advertisement in the public newspapers %.

V. That the place for holding all such meetings be in Craven-street §.

V. OF THE TREASURER.

I. That he receive all benefactions, keep an account of all receipts and payments, and adjust the same at the four general quarterly courts, or oftener if required by the rest of the governors.*§

* Originally it was on the 5th of May.

+ Weekly meetings were necessary in the infancy of this Charity 5 but such forms have been adopted, from the experience of the Committee, that, in its maturity, their meeting once a-month at noon is found to be fully sufficient.

X The Advertisements have since been confined to the Quarterly Courts only.

§ The Society, soon after their establishment, took an office, at N° 7, Craven-street, Strand, where the business of the Charity is transacted, but originally were held at the Thatched-houst Tavern, St. JamesVstrcet.

II. He:

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS. 3I

II. He is to advance no monies on account of the Charity, unless authorised thereto by writing, under the hand of three of the Committee at their meetings.

vi. of The secretary.

He is to be present at all the meetings of the Go vernors, to take the minutes; receive and prepare all petitions; make the necessary enquiries, and report to the Committee concerning them:To draw up the accounts, and carry on the correspondence and business of the Charity, under the direction of the Committee.

VII. OF GOVERNORS IN GENERAL, AND THEIR QUALIFICATIONS.

I. That this Charity be supported by annual subscriptions, or other voluntary benefactions.

II. That all annual subscribers of or above the sum of two guineas, are, and shall be esteemed Governors, and of the Committee.

III. That if any annual subscriber shall be more than two years in arrear, his power as a Governor shall cease, until such arrears are paid.

IV. That all benefactors of, or above the Sum of twenty guineas, now are, and shall be esteemed perpetual Governors.

V. That the nomination of Officers be in the. Governors, and determined by a majority.

D 21

VIII. QT

32 RULES AND ORDERS OF THE SOCIETY VIII. OF THE OBJECTS TO BE RELIEVED.

I. They shall be persons actually imprisoned, whose respective debts, or the composition for whose debts, shall not exceed, the sum of ten rOONBS.

II. That women shall be equally entitled to the benefit of this Charity as men.

III. That such debtors shall have the preference, as are most aged or infirm; have the largest families unprovided for; are the most likely to be useful to the community; and appear to have lost their liberty by unavoidable misfortunes; at least, not by fraud, vice, or extravagance.

IV. That as to such imprisoned debtors as have helpless families, who suffer by the faults of their principal, and are undeservedly reduced to poverty, the (ommittee shall be at liberty to give the families some assistance in proportion to their distress, and agreeable to the intentions of the charity.

V. That no person be delivered a second time; unless it shall appear to the Committee, that their second misfortune cannot be imputed to their own fault.

VI. That an account be annually published, of the number of persons discharged and relieved, but their names not mentioned; together with an account of the sums paid for them, and of the

prisons

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS. 33

prisons from whence they were respectively discharged.

IX. OF PETITIONS AND PETITIONERS.

That, at their respective meetings, the Committee refer all the petitions then received to the Secretary, for his examination and enquiry, during the current month. That the report he shall make on them, with the vouchers for their respective characters, be considered at the next Committee meeting; and that they be proceeded on accordingly, in preference to any other applications.

D 3

FORMS

(35 y

FORMS

OF

APPLICATION

TO

THIS SOCIETY FOR RELIEF.

r^p

X PIE Debtor receives gratis from the Gaoler a printed Petition, of which the following is a copy:

To tke Right Honourable the President, the Vice Presidents, and other Members of the Society for Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts.

The humble Petition of late of ' street, in the parish of

in the County of

Sheweth,

That your Petitioner — hath not received any benefit from your Society heretofore:That he is in the Year of his Age:by profession a

and hath Insert the

Wife and number of Children, if any, under 14 years of age.

d 4 That

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

t Insert the side of the prison where the debtor is confuted.

Insert the plaintiff's name, Jrrofes-sion, and abode.

§ Insert what kind of value the prisoner had of his plaintiff for the Debt.

|| Here mention the court whence the writ issued: also the dates of the declaration, trial, or judgment, as the case maybe, and if si/parsed able, the t ime when, and for what

k ka SON.

Insert the names, professions, and places of abode <f two housekeepers who are acquainted with the prisoner's case-, but if a country petitioner, reference must be made to the tier gym an, dun ch-war-dens, &c. of the parish wherein he or she lately resided.

That he was committed to the prison of on day of

and continues confined

on the 'J- '

of the said prison for a debt of £ sworn to by J

of

street, in the parish of for §

h Attorney, is Mr.

who hath proceeded against your petitioner in the court of |

That it may require £. s. d. to pay for and

also to pay the prison-fees to obtain your, petitioner’s liberty:who having no effects, or power, to discharge the same, most humbly prays to partake of your bounty, in such way as to you may seem meet; and refers to

of

in the parish of

and

of

street, in the parish

of

for a character of his sobriety and integrity.

DIREC-

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS.

27

DIRECTIONS to the PRISONERS.

I. Debtors who desire to partake of this Charity, must apply by printed Petition only; a form of which, as above, may be had of the respective keepers, gratis.

II. No Petition will be attended to, unless filled up fully and exactly, as directed in the margin; those directions being so plain that no difficulty can arise. It is therefore desired that every Petitioner will fill up his or her own Petition.

III. Those who apply for their liberty by Supersedeas, or for Sixpences, must send a copy of their cause or causes, with the Keeper’s certificate.

IV. All Letters, Petitions, &c. are to be forwarded to the Letter- Box, N° 7, in Craven-street, Strand, post-paid.

N.B. An attempt to impose on the Society, in any particular, will prevent the Petitioner s being relieved.

fSCF1 A letter of thanks will be expected from every person discharged: and it is desired that no Bond, Note, Warrant of Attorney, or Obligation whatever, be given to such Plaintiffs as receive a composition from this Society.

Upon

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY

Upon the proposed composition being accepted by the plaintiff, the gaol-fees are immediately paid, and the debtor set at liberty; with some small donation, according to the number and distress - of family, &c.

And, in order to prevent imposition by Swindlers, the Society have found it sometimes necessary to apply to the plaintiff for his testimony concerning the debtor., by the following address.

SOCIETY for the Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts.

Craven-Street, Strand.

The of 180

a Prisoner at your suit in the Gaol of for a debt of £• s. d. hath petitioned this Society for their charitable assistance; who, being desirous of distributing the benevolence of the Publick to every worthy object (and to such only), request to be informed by you, of the manner in which the debt was contracted: whether, in the common and ordinary course of business, or on specious pretences; and of such other circumstances, as may enable the Society to judge of tho. Petitioner's true character, and of his quz£ lification to partake of the public bounty from this Charity. R. Grass well, Sec.

Be pleased to write your answer on the back of this paper; and direct it

To be put into the Letter- Box, No. 7, Craven-Street, Strand.

FORM

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS.

39

FORM of BEQUESTS of LEGACIES.

1 A. B. do give and bequeath unto The Treasurer of the SOCIETY for the Discharge and Relief of Persons imprisoned for Small Debts, known by the name of the Thatched-house Society, in Craven-Street, Strand, the sura of

to be paid out of my personal estate, and to be by him applied (with the consent of the Governors thereof) for the sole uses and purposes of that benevolent institution.

N.B. Any Legacy arising from Lands is void, by the Statute of Mortmain. *

* We have been informed of several legacies, for the relief of prisoners, which are not applied to the purposes for which they were bequeathed. It would be a matter worthy of enquiry, what other legacies are yet undiscovered, besides the following, which have long lain dormant.

Jst, The legacy of Mr. Henry Brown, late linen-draper in the Borough of Southwark, of 50/. per ann. as may appear by the donor’s will, in Doctors Commons.

2. The legacy of Mr. James Dodd, of 30/. per ann. to be paid out of a farm at Ilartly-row, near Hertford-bridge, in the county of Southampton; some years past in the occupation of Mr. Cile, who lived on the said farm.

3. The

ACCOUNT OF THK SOCIETY

3. The legacy of Arthur Child, of the county of Hertford, Esq. of 24/. per aim. to be paid out of 2201, per aim. lying in the parish of Stevenage, in the said county. This legacy was left in the year 1669.

4. The legacy of Mr. Samuel West, citizen of Londort, of 16/. per aim. to be paid out of the ground-rent, arising from several houses in Coleman-street, London.

5. The legacy of Mr. John Hill, of Charlton, in the county of Kent, of 12/. per ami. to be paid out of an estate at Charlton aforesaid; some }rears past in the occupation of Sir William Longham. This legacy was left in the year 1654.

6- The legacy of the family of the Lushingtons, of ll/. 135. 4d. per aim. as appears by the donor’s will in Doctors’ Commons.

1. The legacy of Robert Henley, Esq. of 10/. per aim. payable by the posscsors of an estate lying near the church at Harrow on the Hill, in the county of Hertford; which estate is now, or was lately, in the family of the Waldos.

The foregoing legacies amount to 153/. 125. Ad. per aim. and have not been paid to the poor prisoners for many years past. See a pamphlet, intitled, “ The extraordinary case of William Penrice.”

the

FOR RELIEF OF SMALL DEBTS.

41

T. HE foregoing Rules and Orders of the Society, and Forms for carrying the benevolent designs of the public into effectual execution, have been honoured by the general approbation and encouragement of all ranks of people among us; insomuch that some of the public city companies, executors, and others, trustees for distributing annual sums of money for the discharge of poor debtors, have made the Society their Almoners; under a full conviction “ that the Society, from the experience they have acquired, can discharge as many debtors for ONE hundred pounds, as they themselves can for TWO*.” The Society, however, are at all times ready and desirous to act according to the general directions of such trustees; and to render to them accurate lists and accounts, of the debtors so discharged, and of the monies so intrusted to their distribution.

TIME, which effects the various vicissitudes of human life, has of course made some changes in the Society: but Humanity, Philanthropy, and Christianity, are still the same:so that, though some of the NOBLE, the GREAT, and the GOOD, have been removed, others have kindly become the friends of the distressed Debtor, in their stead.

* See before, p. 1

The

42

ACCOUNT OF THE SOCIETY, &C.

The present Officers of the Society are,

PRESIDENT,

The right hon. the EARL of ROMNEY,

VICE-PRESIDENTS,

The most noble the Marquis of HERTFORD.

The Right Hon. the Earl of RADNOR.

The Hon. PHILIP PUSEY.

Sir CHARLES MIDDLETON, Bart.

TREASURER,

JAMES NEILD, Esq.

R. Grasswell, Secretary.

The business of the Society being now conducted on so regular a plan, that the Committee have not thought it necessary to meet oftener than once a month; those meetings are held at N° 7, Craven-Street, Strand, the first Wednesday of every month, at noon.

The Committee is composed of all such annual Benefactors as choose to attend:their company, therefore, will at all times be esteemed a kindness to the Society, more especially, if any Gentleman should have any thing to propose, for rendering this institution more advantageous to the publick, or essentially conducive to its prosperity.

•&> Persons desirous of establishing similar Societies in other parts of the kingdom, may have copies of the modes of business which the Society have adopted, gratis: and should any deficiency or defect be found therein, the Society will be very thankful for better information and advice, and happy to pursue it.

ACCOUNT

0 F

PERSONS CONFINED FOR DEBT,

IN THE

VARIOUS PRISONS

ENGLAND and WALES;

TOGETHER WITH THEIR

PROVISIONARY ALLOWANCE, Ac,

DURING CONFIN

AS REPORTED TO THE

Society for the Discharge and Relief of

Small Debtors,

In M A R CII, 1802.

BY

JAMES NEILD, Esq. Treasurer.

((Ah ! little think the gay, licentious proud,

(i Whom Pleasure, Power, and Affluence, surround <c They, who their thoughtless hours in giddy mirth “ And wanton, often cruel, riot waste;

“ Ah ! little think they, while they dance along, t(How many pine in want, and dungeon glooms,

“ Shut from the common air, and common use “ Of their own limbs ! How many drink the cup iC Of baleful Grief, or eat the bitter bread “ Of Misery ! — For, sure, th’awakening thought “ 'The conscious heart of Charity would warm;

Ct The social tear would rise, the social sigh;

“ The social passions work !’ *

Thomson.

(45)

TO THE

BENEVOLENT READER.

The unexampled dearness of provisions, the extreme hardship and pressure of the times, which bore so heavily upon almost all classes of the people in this country, led the compiler of the following sheets to a melancholy reflection on the state of the poor debtors confined in the various prisons of England and Wales.

His feelings, awakened by the pitiable situation of such objects of misfortune, roused him to exertion; and, in the months of April, May, and June, of the year 1800, to undertake an examination of their state and condition.

In the prisons he was at this time enabled to visit, his fears and apprehensions of the misery of these unhappy sufferers were but too fully confirmed; apd, moreover, to his great regret, lie discovered *

E that

TO THE BENEVOLENT READER.

that twenty-six of the prisons were unacquainted with the establishment of that excellent Society, which, in the year one thousand seven hundred and seventy-two, so benevolently entered upon their present greatly extended plan of charitably relieving and discharging from their confinement such prisoners as came within the description of their regulations, and had a fair claim upon their attention.

Since this undertaking, the compiler has visited every gaol in and near the metropolis, together with those of many counties he was not, at that time, able to do; and, from an inspection into the manner of treatment, and accommodation, of the miserable inhabitants, he is persuaded that the following statement will not be disregarded by a generous and benevolent publick; and he has the most sanguine hope, that it will induce the humane magistrate to visit more frequently, than it has been customary to do, those dreary abodes of human wretchedness.

There were thirty-nine prisons in England and Wales, which did not furnish the debtor with any allowance whatever; and in these there were, in the month of April, 1800, four hundred and twenty-seven persons confined to this wretched state of captivity.

In many prisons where manufactories had been established, with a design to be reciprocally advantageous to the county and the prisoners, lie saw,

with

TO THE BENEVOLENT READER.

47

with painful astonishment, the work discontinued, from this parsimonious consideration, that the county sustained a loss by this sort of employment for them. The consequence is but too obvious. Too many bodily evils to be here enumerated would necessarily assail them. And, moreover, profane-ness and debauchery never fail to be the constant companions of idle hours in places of this description; and it is therefore greatly to be lamented that any county, by such an attention to such FRUGALITY, should deprive the poor debtor of the means of administerng to his own necessities. He is thereby not only lost to himself, but to the community; sloth enervates the powers and faculties, both of his mind and body; and if at any time his creditor should be disposed to release him, or his discharge

± ' to

should be otherwise effected, he is perhaps, after a long confinement, restored to his family and society, without tools, or implements of any kind, to return to his vocation, which, by lus labours in the prison, he might otherwise have procured, together with a pittance to carry him to his home. In this dejected and forlorn state he finds himself a pennyless half-famished outcast, andw perhaps a hundred miles from his family-abode, when the doors of the prison are thrown open for his enlargement.

Thus, without the means of employment, without clothes, and without bread, to what can it possibly be expected he should have recourse to relieve the calls of nature, and get his necessities supplied ?

e 2 What?

48

TO THE BENEVOLENT READER.

What ? but to illicit practice, and midnight depredations. It is therefore greatly to be wished, that the magistracy of these counties would endeavour to redress this evil, by furnishing the means to promote and encourage the industry of the debtor, to keep his mind from contamination, and his body healthful by employment; this would be almost a sure mode of rousing him to exertion, for the future advantage of his family, and of procuring the needful to convey him to his home.

(49)

ACCOUNT OF

PERSONS CONFINED FOR DEBT.

APPLEBY; Westmorland.

Gaoler, James Bewsher, Salary 20/.

Fees; Debtors, 6j. 8d. Garnish; none.

Chaplain, Rev. James Metcalfe.

Duty, every Sunday.

Surgeon, none appointed; but Mr. Bashby is employed when wanted, and makes a Bill.

1 Soo, { 1801,

Number of Debtors Allowance. None whatever.

1 Soo, March 31, ... 6. Feb. 2, .... 2.

REMARKS.

There being no chapel, divine service is performed in the debtors’ day-room. Only one court-yard, the size 32 yards by 22; so that debtors and felons, men and women, mix promiscuously together. And there being no kitchen they are obliged to dress their victuals in the court-yard. The county provides no work, but handy-craft trades, such as tailors, shoemakers, &c. sometimes get employment from the town.

E 3

50 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

AYLESBURY; Bucks.

Gaoler; Henry Sheriff; Salary 140/.

and for Bridewell 30/.

Fees; None, but the Under Sheriff takes from each debtor 2s. 6d. for his liberate.

Garnish; None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Hopkins.

Duty, every Sunday; Salary, 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Hayzvard; Salary 20/.

^ 1 8co, June 2, .... 14 Number of Debtors- 1801, August 16, .. 18

vi 802, Jan. 20, .... 8

Allowance. One pound of bread and half a pint of rice per day each; twice a week a pint of soup is substituted in lieu of rice.

REMARKS.

The wards are all free; and the keeper furnishes a flock-bed, with a blanket and coverlet to each, cut of his salary. There is but one courtyard, 54 feet by 26, for men and women debtors; but each have a separate day-room, about 20 feet by 14, and coals allowed. Divine Service is performed in the Town-hall, and all the prisoners are obliged to attend, unless prevented by illness, under the penalty of half

a pound

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. J I

a pound of bread being taken off their allowance,

and shut up the whole day.

A lady at Weston left an annuity of 13s. 4d.

which is paid by the churchwardens of Aylesbury,

and distributed amongst debtors and felons. On my

visit to this prison, in August, 1801, I found the

engine and pump had been out of repair for six months, and that the prisoners had no water but what was fetched from the rivulet at the bottom of the keeper’s garden.

I am informed that they are now (January, ! 802)

under repair.

52

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

BATH City Gaol.

Gaoler, George Griffin; who is also Sheriff’s Officer. Salary 30/.

Fees 7s. 8d.

Chaplain. None. On my visit, Dec. 22, 1801, the keeper told me that it was more than two years since divine service had been performed there.

Surgeon. None.

{1800, March 30, ...1

o

1801, Dec. 22, .... 2

Allowance. Sixpence per day in bread.

REMARKS.

This prison is situated in Grove-street, and unfortunately built on very low ground; the ascent by a fine flight of stone steps. The ground floor, on which there are three cells and a day-room, was so excessively damp, that the water was running down the walls of the passage and stair-case in large drops; the day-room was filled with every description of prisoners, three of whom (women) slept in one of the cells, nine feet square and nine feet high, upon straw; ventilated by an aperture in the door. Above are three stories, five good size rooms on each; two of which are used by the keeper; the rest for debtors:one bed in a room, for which the prisoner

pays

S3

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

pays 31. 6d. per week. Two rooms on the second story are free wards, one for men, the other for women. No work-room or employment furnished by the Corporation. There is painted on a board, “ No strong liquors admitted, under the penalty of “ ten pounds, or three months imprisonment.” The debtors have a small court-yard, through which you pass to go to the felon’s yard, in the centre of which a double range of cells is built, with a fire-place in each. I was sorry to be informed, that the wall was to be raised several feet, as it will make the little remainder of the felons yard very unhealthy, for the want of fresh air; and, not being a paved or gravel bottom, almost useless. Though the city affords a very liberal supply of coals, it is not sufficient to counteract the effects of local situation.

My worthy friend the humane and benevolent Dr. Lettsom thus expresses himself on this subject:

“ If any medical fact be more clearly ascertained, than that ventilation or circulation of pure air is essential to the preservation of health, and even to the existence of life; it is the converse, that damp confined air is conducive to disease and death. This air in ships, hospitals, and gaols, is the source of that fever called the Putrid, Ship, Hospital, or Gaol-Fever; and let individuals in the best health be placed in it, disease must soon result, and the danger of spreading infectious fevers must be the

54 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

consequence. Damp confined air obsructs perspiration, and putrid effluvia from the human body is tlius accumulated, and collected in the clothes and bedding of the objects under their dangerous influence.

“ Happily for mankind it is, that by the experience of Captain Cook, the writings of Mr. Howard, and the practice of the best physicians, ventilation of air, change of cloathing; and cleanliness, have produced the most happy effects in many hospitals and prisons; and to neglect these known means of preserving the health and lives of our unfortunate fellow-creatures is a proof of ignorance and inhumanity.”

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

55

BEAUMARIS; Anglesey.

Gaoler, Thomas Ashursl; Salary 10L and for the Bridewell 30/.

Fees; 7s.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Thomas.

Duty, every Sunday; Salary 10L

Surgeon, Mr. Sparrow; Salary, none, makes a bill.

(1800, April 11, .... 4

Number of Debtors] n T, ‘

(.1002, Jan. 26, ....5

Allowance. Now three shillings and six-pence

per week in money each.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is also the County Bridewell. It has six rooms on the second story for debtors, a common kitchen and pantry below; in all which (except the pantry), there is a fire-place; straw for their beds is furnished by the county. They have a separate court-yard, an oblong square, about 16 yards by 13.

The prison is white-washed once in two or three years, but the good effects are destroyed by almost every chimney smoaking. No water but what the Gaoler fills into a square box lined with lead, which holds about twenty-two gallons. It might be laid on at small expence from a spring about a hundred yards distant.

6 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

BEDFORD.

Gaoler, John Hozvard; Salary ioo/. and for Idouse of Correction 90/.

Fees-, 13J. 4d. Garnish, none.

Chaplain, Rev. Thomas Cave.

Duty, Prayers on Thursday; Sermon on Sunday; Salary 40/.

Surgeon, Mr. Campion; Salary 201.

✓-1800, March 26, ... 4 Number of Debtors J 1801, Aug. 19, .... 5

I1802, Jan. 26, .....4

Allowance. Two quartern loaves per week each, weight (Aug. 19, 1801) ^lb. 50Z. 8dr.

REMARKS.

This Gaol, which is just finished, is built on a very good plan; but though there are six courtyards for different classes of prisoners, each about 54 feet by 30 feet, there is only one appropriated to men and women debtors. No employ furnished by the county; but handicraft-trades, such as tailors, shoemakers, &c. are allowed to work, if they can get it. There are six free wards, or rooms, for debtors, light, airy, and clean; each has a straw-bed, one blanket, and a rug; and two or three rooms

that

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 57

that the Gaoler furnishes with beds, &c. for the better accommodation of those who can pay.

When I visited this prison, in August, 1801, the Gaoler, informed me, that, during the seventeen years he had kept the prison, he never remembered one debtor receiving the benefit of the Lords’ Act, or sixpences.

Any prisoner absent (except by sickness) from divine service, or behaving irreverently, is punished by closer confinement, or by fetters.

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

BERWICK; Gaol over the Town-Hall.

Gaoler, George Richardson; Salary 40/.

Eees; freemen none; non-freemen, 21. 6d.

Garnish, none.

(haplain, none.

Surgeon, none; if any prisoner is ill, the surgeon of the parish attends, and is paid by the trea-• surer of the Corporation.

_, f i8co, April y, .....2

Number or Debtors)a ‘

i 1 o01, Nov. 9, .....1

Allowance. At a Guild, held Jan. 11, 1800, it was agreed (on account of the dearness of provisions) that every prisoner, being a freeman, should have nine-pence per day, and every non-freeman six-pence.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is over one end of the town-hall; two rooms, with a fire-place in each, and one without any. The water (which is supplied from a leaden-

•J ' Hi

cistern) is carried up by the Beadle.

Debtors have the liberty to walk unon the leads.

^ A.

No employment furnished by the Corporation. The Gaoler visits the prison three times a day, his house being at a distance.

BE-

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

59

BEVERLY HALL GARTH5 Yorkshire.

Gaoler, William min die. Salary; none.

Fees, 4s. id. Garnish, is.

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon; none.

O J

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 10, .... o.

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

The Hall-Garth for Debtors, in the liberty of St John of Beverley, is a manor-gaol, or court-baron, held by Lord Yarborough, has five rooms, with plaster-floors. Every Debtor pays is. 3A per week for a bed.

The keeper says, all he has to depend upon is selling ale.

BOD-

6o ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

BODMIN; Cornwall.

Gaoler^ James Chappie. Salary 30/.

Fees; see Table, p. 59. Garnish; none *

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Morgan.

Duty, every Sunday. Salary, 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. William Hamley. Salary, 30/.

Number of Debtors(, Soo> March 3°. 9

I 1801, Nov. 3, .... 14

Allowance. Ordered at Midsummer-Sessions, 1800. One pound eleven ounces of bread, made of wheat and barley meal, in equal quantities, and half a pound of beef on Sundays.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is situate on a rising ground, fronts the south, is well supplied with water and fresh air; which makes it very healthy, there having been but seven deaths in twenty-one years out of 3106 prisoners. There is however one improvement it greatly wants: a separation of young beginners from old offenders. There are four rooms in the keeper’s house for master-side debtors. And in the prison nine rooms, about 10 feet by 7, and 8 feet9 inches high, for which they pay as per table; viz.

A Ta-

IN' ENGLAND AND WALES.

A Table of Fees and Rates to be taken by the Head Gaoler and Turnkeys at BODMIN, From Debtors.

First Class.

jC* d *

Every Debtor voluntarily going into the Master’s Ward, to pay the Keeper at

Entrance ...... o 3 4

To the Turnkeys ...... 0, 1 6

To Keeper at Discharge........o 6 8

To the Turnkeys ...... o 2 6

Every Debtor lodging in the Master’s house,

a bed to himself, per week......o 2 6

Two such Debtors in a bed, each. .\.. o 1 3

Every Debtor in the Master’s house bringing his own bed, for lodging room...o 1 3

Second Class.

Every Debtor lodged over the Arcades, to

the Keeper at entrance.......o' 2 6

To Turnkeys ...... o 1 o

To Keeper at discharge.........o 5 o

To Turnkeys ...... o 2 o

Every such Debtor over the Arcades lodged in the Keeper’s bed and room to himself, per week ...... o 1 6

Two such Debtors in a bed, each per week 009 Common Debtors having only straw, matrass, or their own bed, to Keeper at

discharge ...... o 6 o

To Turnkeys ...... o 2 o

F Debtors

6z ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

£. s. d.

Debtors in general.

For signing every certificate to obtain a

Supersedeas, or Rule and Order of Court o i 6 For copy of Sheriff’s Warrant, if demanded o i o For registering any Declaration against a

Prisoner ...... o I o

For discharge of every debtor on composition, or by any act of insolvency, or for want of prosecution (of which is. $d. is to be the Turnkey’s fee) except where it is otherwise directed by Statute ....012, 5,

Fee from every such Debtor charged with more actions than one, not exceeding five, of which ic<^. is to be the Turnkey’s fee, on each .........o 6 o

Epiphany Sessions, held at Lostwithiel the 15th January, 1789, for the county of Cornwall, the above List of Fees were produced, examined, and approved of, by us his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace for the said county,

Thomas Graham,

John Coryton,

H. PIawkins Tremaynf. We the Honorable Sir William Henry Ashhurst, Knight, and the Honorable Francis Buller, Esq. Judges of Assize on the Western Circuit, have perused and examined the above List of Fees; and do approve and confirm the same. Dated iqth March, ' 1789.

W. H. A SHPIURST, F, DULLER;

IN ENGLAND AND WAJLES.

63

BOROUGH COMPTER, Southwark.

Keeper, Sir Watkin Lewes, Knt. Bailiff of the Borough, appointed by the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen.

John Frost, Deputy. Salary, none.

Fees, 7s. 6d.

Garnish, is.

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors

1801. Sept. 14, ....91802. Feb. 9, ......5

Allowance. A two-penny loaf per day from the City fzveitrht, 10th March, 1801, six ounces)y and sixty-five penny loaves every eight weeks, from Mrs. Margaret Symcott’s gift, a memorial of which is fixed up in the prison, and twenty shillings every Christmas from the Archbishop of Canterbury.

REMARKS.

This prison extends its jurisdiction over five, parishes. The debtors have only one small courtyard, about 19 feet square.. .The women lodge in the common day-room. No bedding, or even straw to lie upon. No mops, brooms, or pails, to keep the prison clean. No fire in the winter; the casements rotting off their hinges, and scarce a whole

f 1 pane

64 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

pane of glass in the windows. Out of the nine poor wretches who were confined, seven of them were scarce half cloathed, three very ill, and without any medical assistance whatever. The keeper informed me, that about a week before I came there he expected every morning to have found Margaret Evans (one of the three) dead. The men debtors room below stairs totally in ruins, having but four or five boards upon it, and those in a rotten decayed state. Five years since the gaol had been whitewashed. On my visit, the 25th November, 1801, I found it just white-washed and swept, which gave it the appearance of cleanliness; but in every other respect it was in the wretched state I saw it in September. There are roorris in the house for those who can pay. The number of debtors confined from January the 1st, 1801, to January 1st, 1802, was 180. All those who are arrested by process issuing out of the Borough-Court are sent to this prison. The sixty-five penny loaves mentioned in the allowance are sent by the City all at one time, so that if there is but one prisoner he has the whole, and (as the keeper informed me) sells them. The donation of twenty shillings by the Archbishop of Canterbury is distributed in the same manner. Through the exertions of my worthy friend Mr. Alderman Cadell some alterations will be made in this gaol, to render it more comfortable to those who are confined there.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

65

BRECON, South Wales.

Gaoler, Walter Watkins.

Salary, 52/. 10s. for gaol and house of correction.

Fees, 7s.

Garnish, none.

Chaplain, Rev. John Jones.

Duty, twice a week. Salary, 10/. ior.

Surgeon, Mr. John Williams. Salary, 10I. 10s,

f 1800, March 31, ... 6

Number of debtors, )0 t o

5 11802, Jan. 28, .....7

Allowance. One pound of bread per day.

REMARKS.

There are five rooms above for debtors; two of which are free wards. No proper separation of the men and women in the day-time. Chapel in the centre; but the debtors attendance is optional. The gaol is now secured from the floods.

F 3

66 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

BRISTOL.

Gaoler, William Humphries.

* 4.

Salary, 200/. and 21, a year gown-money.

Fees, First action, 6s. 8d. second and every subsequent one, y. 4d. a London action, 91.

Chaplain, Rev. Joseph Walcam.

Duty, Sermon every Sunday; and prayers on Wednesday and Friday.

Salary, 33/.

Surgeon, Mr. Safford.

Salary, none; makes a bill.

f 1800, April r c, ...i c

Number of debtors, \ Q

5 L 1801. Dec. 16, ... 10

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

This goal is built on a declivity in the midst of the city. It is much too small for the general number of prisoners. For debtors there are about fifteen large and airy rooms, two of which are free wards for poor debtors who find their own beds. Those on the Master’s side pay is. 6d. per week each. No proper separation of men and women. Only one court-yard, thirteen yards by six yards, into which debtors and felons are, at different hours

of

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

67

of the day, separately admitted, for air and. exercise, and in which when I was there the linen was hung to dry. There are many narrow passages, and the utmost attention is requisite to keep the prison healthy. I found it clean, considering the felon-side was so crowded and close. No table of gaoler’s fees; but the Rules and Orders to be observed are stuck up in several parts of the prison; three of which I shall mention as particularly respecting the debtors; viz.

(i The debtors’ room doors to be opened at six o’clock in the morning, and locked at ten at night, from the 35th of March to the 29th of September; and to be opened at eight o'clock the remainder of the year.

“ No garnish to be paid:and if any prisoner demand garnish, or take any thing in lieu thereof, he shall be punished with close confinement.

“ The debtors to wash, or cause to be washed, their rooms once a week at least.”

Mr. John Heydon left too/, to be lent to two merchants, each paying annually to the corporation for the debtors, as the interest of his moiety, il. 131. 4d.

Mr. Freeman left 4/. 9J. to be laid out in bread and beef, and distributed on Christmas-eve, to prisoners of all descriptions. To this legacy Mrs. Freeman annually makes an addition of eleven shillings.

F 4

The

68 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

The church-wardens have for many years past annually paid 4/. is. two thirds of which are given to the debtors, and one third tothe felons. No memorial in the gaol of any legacy. Besides the service noted in its place, there are thirteen sermons in the year; for which the rector of the parish receives 4/. from a legacy.

The debtors’ attendance on divine service is optional.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

6 9

BURY ST. EDMUNDS.

Gaoler, John Orridge; who is also Keeper of the Bridewell.

Salary 100I. and coals and candle.

Fees; Debtors, when discharged, to the Gaoler on every action, 8j. 8 A; to the Sheriff, is. But if discharged on Supersedeas, then to the Sheriff, 6s. Sd.

Chaplain, Rev. Simon Pry he.

Salary, 5 c/.

Surgeon, Mr. George Hubbard.

Salary, 50/. for Debtors and Felons.

Number of Debtors, Jan. 30, 1802, .....9

Allowance from the county, one pound and three quarters of bread each prisoner per day.

REMARKS.

This gaol is situated in the centre of the town; has only one court-yard, which is 34 yards by 16, . for prisoners of all descriptions. On one side of the yard the debtors have a common kitchen, and a work-room about 16 feet square. There are four rooms up stairs, in the front of the gaoler’s house, about 16 feet square, used as lodging rooms for debtors, with three beds in each room, and each

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

7°

debtor pays is. per week for lodging, if he has a bed to himself; but if two debtors sleep in one bed, then is. per week each. All poor debtors have the county allowance; and from the 5th of November to Lady-day the debtors receive four bushels of coals per week, and forty shillings every Christmas from the feoffment. Here is also a most excellent charitable fund, called Pemberton’s charity (being left by a gentleman of that name), which fund is directed by the donor’s will, “ To be a plied by the trustees to-46 wards the relief of such poor, distressed, insolvent “.debtors as should be imprisoned within any of the gaols “ of the county of Suffolk, either for delivering them out <e of prison, or relieving their necessities whilst there, “ as the trustees shall think ft, provided such poor t(debtors be persons born in Suffolk, and no way indebted to any of the trusteesThe trustees under this charity frequently allow 3/. or 4/. and sometimes 5/. to poor deserving debtors, towards obtaining their discharge; they also allow to each debtor two pounds of beef, a pint of porter, and a twopenny-loaf, every Sunday, under this condition, that every debtor receiving it shall regularly attend chapel, unless prevented by sickness; but no crown debtors partake of this charity.

Divine service is performed twice a week, Sundays and Fridays, in a front room of the gaoler’s house; and all prisoners must attend, unless prevented by sickness.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 71

The county provides no employment for prisoners, but mechanics are all allowed to work at their business; and the other prisoners usually employ themselves in making garters and spinning wool:all prisoners receive the full amount of their earnings.

At my visit, the 15th of October, 1801, two women and five men were at work i and two others, not being bred to trades, were learning to make shoes. I found the prison clean, and the keeper intelligent and humane.

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

CAERMARTHEN CASTLE, South Wales.

Gaoler, John Thomas. Salary, 31/. ior.

Fees, 155. 4d.

Garnish, 2s. 6d.

Chaplain, Rev. Thomas Price.

Duty, every Sunday and Holiday.

Salary, 12/. i2t.

Surgeon, Mr. William Price.

Salary, 20/. for felons only.

Number of Debtors, 1800, March 30, ... 5

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

A court-yard, 38 yards by 22. Ten rooms, all free wards, 12 feet by 9, with fire-places. The county allows an iron bedstead with sacking and straw-bed:and five pounds for coals yearly, to be distributed amongst all the prisoners.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

n

CAERMARTHEN Town-Gaol.

Now consolidated with the County.

Gaoler, John Thomas.

Salary, 61. 6s.

Surgeon, Mr. Jenkins.

Salary, 5/.

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

Every apartment in the prison is now supplied with water by an engine, through leaden pipes laid on.

74- ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

CAERNARVON, North Wales.

Gaoler, William Griffith.

Salary, 15/.

Fees, 7s.

Chaplain, Rev. John Pugh,

Who officiates gratuitously.

Surgeon, Mr. Currie; attends sometimes.

{1800, April a, ...

O

1801, Nov. 7, .. ✓ .

Allowance. From the county is. per week.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

75

CAMBRIDGE CASTLE.

Gaoler, William Gregory.

Salary, ioo/. for Gaol and Bridewell. Fees. None.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Homes.

There being no chapel, divine service is performed in the keeper’s house, across the castle-yard.

Salary, 25/. and occasional donations from die Earl of Hardwick.

Surgeon, Mr. Oakes.

Salary, not fixed when I was there.

Number of Debtors

1800, August 20, .. 8

1802, Jan, 28, .... 13

Allowance. None; but when in extreme poverty, upon solicitation of the Gaoler, the justices order seven pounds, twelve ounces, of bread, to each per week.

REMARKS.

This prison is the gate of the old castle. To the debtors’ apartments you ascend by a stone stair-case of twenty-two steps. There are six sleeping-rooms,

?6 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

four of which hold two beds each. If the prisoner has no bed of his own, he pays the Gaoler ij. 6d. per week for the use of one. No proper separation

of men and women. A day room on the ground

floor, and small court-yard. Mr. Gregory permits those in whom he can place confidence to walk in the castle-yard. Debtors have relief from legacies and donations paid by several colleges:from Sidney college each has a shirt every year; from St. John s, sixteen-penny worth of bread every Saturday morning. A collection is made in the town at Christmas, which has sometimes amounted to twenty shillings each; and about sixteen shillings a year is paid from an estate at Croxton, in this county. No memorial in the Gaol.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES *

11

CAMBRIDGE Town Gaol

Gaoler, Thomas Adams* Salary ioL Fees; none.

Garnish; none.

Chaplain; none.

Surgeon; none.

riSoo, May 16, ....i

Number of Debtors <: 18013 Aug. 20, .... 1

^ 1802, Jan. 28, .... oT\

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

Three separate rooms for men and women debtors, who pay 2s. per week for a single bed; and if two lie together u. 3^. each. No court-yard. Water accessible to all the prisoners now. Some relief is received from St. John’s College, upon the Gaoler's solicitation; and Trinity College sends three sacks of coals yearly for debtors and felons, which are used to cook their victuals in the house, and occasionally to warm themselves by, there being no common room or fire-place for either. There-is likewise bread from the Colleges to the amount of '5ne shilling and seven pence per week, and the town furnishes straw for poor debtors, but no employment for any.

G

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

7

8

CANTERBURY.

Gaoler, Evan Jones; Salary 15/.

Fees, 6s. 8d.

Chaplain, none; the Rev. Mr. Gosling frequently attends.

Surgeon, Mr. Trimmel; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, 1800, Marched, ...1

Allowance, a six-penny loaf per day, if proved to have no property.

REMARKS.

An old man goes about the city with a basket every Saturday, to collect broken victuals for the

- j '

prisoners; for which the Corporation give him yearly .a great-coat and a laced-hat. No court-yard. The prison is over the West Gate, and in each of the Towers is a room about eleven feet in diameter, for debtors, who are occasionally permitted to walk upon the leads by the keeper, who lives in an house adjoining.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 79

CARDIFF; Glamorganshire.

Gaoler, Thomas Morgan; Salary ioo/.

Fees; none, except admitted to bail, 6s. 8d. Garnish; none.

Chaplain, Rev. John Evans.

Duty; Sunday, prayers and sermon. Salary, 30/.

Surgeon, Mr. Williams; Salary 20/.

Number of Debtors

1800, March 31,

1801, Nov. 21,

10

5

Allowance. Two shillings to each per week, by the county.

REMARKS.

There is only a court-yard for male and female debtors, size 26 yards by 13, an excellent pump in it. One common sleeping-room for men-debtors who are unable to pay for beds, and to whom the County finds straw. There are six rooms, each about 16 feet by 14, for those who can afford to pay two shillings per week for bed and bedding. A commodious chapel, where the debtors and Flo ns are kept separate to hear divine service. No employment furnished by the County.

80 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

CARDIGAN.

Gaoler, William Langdon; Salary, 30/.

Fees 6s. 8d.

Chaplain, Rev. John Evans.

Duty. Sundays, and other times if required. Salary, 20/.

Surgeon, Mr. Williams; Salary, 10/.

f 1800, April 24, .... 5

Number of Debtors) Q AT f

11801, Nov. 3o>.... o

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

This Gaol is situated at the North end of the town:a court-yard; but no water. Eight rooms for debtors, 13 feet by 11. The County finds no employ for the prisoners.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 81

CARLISLE, City and County; Cumberland.

Gaoler, Joseph Mullender; Salary 40/,

Fees, 10 s.

Garnish, is. 6d.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Mark.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, 20/.

Surgeon, Mr. Losh.

Salary, 5/. 5J. and makes a bill for medicines.

Number of Debtors

1800, April 1,

f1800, 11802,

. 28

Jan.

Allowance. One shilling and three pence per week each.

REMARKS.

Debtors have a court-yard, 60 yards by 40; and a day-room, 8 yards by 5. Master’s-side-debtors pay is. 6d. per week, two lie in a bed. Four rooms for common-side debtors. County allows straw; but not firing.

G 3

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

CHELMSFORD; Essex.

Gaoler, Robert Purnell, Salary 180/.

Fees, 13s, 4d.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Morgan, who, on common occasions, attends twice a week; and every day when prisoners are under sentence of death.

Salary, 50/. to which the magistrates have lately added 20/. as a reward for his attention to the House of Correction, which he had for many years visited gratuitously.

Medical Attendants.

Henry Menish, M. D. and his partner, Mr. Gilson;

William Welch, M. D. and his partner, Mr.Bird;

and Mr. Gibbs.

Each house attends alternately every third year. Salary, 50/.

Number of Debtors

1800, March 27, 1801, Oct. 11, ..

* 7

Allowance, One pound and a half of bread and a quart of small beer daily. A bushel of coals per day, from Nov. 1. to May 1.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 83

REMARKS.

There is only one court-yard for men and women debtors, 99 feet by 14, in which there is a day-room, with a flagged floor, 22 feet by 14; and eight separate sleeping-rooms, 18 feet by 14, and 9 feet 10 inches high, with fire-places and sash windows. There is likewise a straw room, or free ward, 43 feet by 16, with three sashed windows, which is furnished with straw for the use of those who cannot afford beds. A large upper room called the smugglers-room, 42 feet by 16, with iron barred and grated windows, and furnished with very good beds, is also appropriated to debtors, who can pay for the use of it.

A Mrs. Herris, some years since, gave some lands in trust to the incumbent of the parish of

j.

Chelmsford, out of the rents of which five pounds are distributed annually on Christmas eve, in equal portions, to the debtors. A memorial of which is hung up in the gaol.

I found this prison very clean and healthy, and most excellent rules and orders are established for its good government. Prisoners of every description are required to attend chapel; their behaviour when I was there was attentive, decent, and orderly. The felons are classed according to their offences, and separated by wainsccc partitions, and have an iron

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

skreen before their seats. I cannot help expressing t he pleasure I received from the worthy Chaplain’s selecting those passages of Scripture, the most appropriate to that class he was addressing. He admonished the profligate, exhorted the thoughtless, and comforted the afflicted. Not content with the formal discharge of required duty, he appeared to be in principle a Christian.

CHEYNE’ COURT. See GOSPORT.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

CHESTER CASTLE.

Gaoler, Matthew Hudson. Salary 240/. Fees, gs. 8c/.

Garnish, is. 6d. to the stock for coals.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Hill.

Duty. Sunday, prayers and sermon; and prayers on Wednesday and Friday.

Surgeon, Mr. Hughes. Salary 30/.

Number of Debtors

1800, March 31, 1802, Jan. 31,

• 35

. 26

Allowance. Six pounds of bread per week.

REMARKS.

Common-side debtors have a free ward, to which the County allows a bedstead and straw-mattress. Master’s-side debtors pay one shilling chamber-rent, and one shilling for a bed per week.

86 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

CHESTER CITY, North Gate.

Gaoler, John Wilbraham. Salary 60/,

Fees, 9J. Set.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Johnson.

Duty. Prayers twice a week, and a sermon three times a year.

Salary 12/. iar.

Surgeon, Mr. Wilkinson; makes a bill.

11800, March 31, ... 4

Number of Debtors i c T Q

I 1002, Jan. 20, .... 2

Allowance. One pound of bread -per day each.

REMARKS.

Four rooms for debtors; two holding two beds each; and two one bed each. No free ward. Those who have a bed to themselves pay 3s. 6d. If two in a bed, two shillings per week each. There is but one court-yard for debtors and felons; but the former are frequently indulged with walking in the keeper’s garden. There is a legacy of 11. 13^.4^. paid annually by the Corporation. All debtors who receive the bread, are obliged to attend chapel, under forfeiture of their allowance.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 87

COLCHESTER;

Gaoler, John Hardy. Salary 12/.

Fees, 25. 6d.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Prisoners, 1801, Dec. 12, .., 11 Allowance. Four Pence per day.

REMARKS.

No court-yard. In one room of 15 feet square, and lighted by two iron-bar grated windows, six. women were confined: no bedding, straw on the Poor, and two rags of blankets, two of them very ill. In another room with one iron-grated window, 16 feet by 11, four women were confined. In a third room up stairs 15 feet by 9, a man heavily ironed, very dark and lighted by one grated window:to each room a half tub served the purpose of a necessary:the cielings about seven feet high, so very dirty that the man told me no whitewash would stick upon them. No water accessible to the prisoners. The effluvia from the tubs, and the exhalations from the poor wretches in confinement, made the rooms almost insupportable: with the

88 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

assistance of aromatic vinegar, and my handkerchief to my mouth, I could scarce remain long enough in them to take their dimensions. The act for preservation of health, and the clause against spirituous liquors, not hung up.

A letter from the keeper, dated 10th Feb. 1802v informs me the rooms have since my visit been cleansed and white-washed.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 89

COLD-BATH FIELDS; London.

Gaoler, Thomas Aris; Salary 300/.

Fees, none.

Garnish, none.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Evans.

Duty; Sermon every Sunday, and prayers twice a week; Salary 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Webb-, Salary 100l. per annum for this prison and house of correction.

Number of Debtors

1800, August 1,

1802, Feb. 8,

a-

2

Allowance. A loaf of one pound weight every day, a pint of gruel every morning, and a quart of broth made of rice and oat-meal for dinner, every other day six ounces of meatr instead of broth for dinner.

REMARKS.

A court-yard 35 feet by 20, a day-room about 12 feet square, and a sleeping cell 7 feet by 5I; plank bedsteads, a straw ticking bed, a blanket, and rug. The County humanely allows a peck of coals per day. I found the room and stair-case very dirty.

90 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

COVENTRY; Warwickshire.

Gaoler, Basil Goode; Salary 120/. oat of which he pays for the removal of all convicts.

Fees, 1$s. c\d.; and to the Under Sheriff for his liberate 4s.

Garnish, none.

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon, Mr. Whit well; makes a bill.

(1800, March 26, 2

Number of Debtors^ n T ,

(ibo2, Jan. 26, 7

Allowance. A four-penny loaf per day each prisoner.

REMARKS.

The debtors and felons have only one court-yard, $ize 60 feet by 40, a separate day-room about 14 feet square. No firing allowed by the County. Common-side debtors are allowed straw, (which is changed every three weeks,) a blanket and rug. Master’s-side debtors pay is. 6d. a week for a bed, and, if two sleep together, is. each.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

91

DERBY, Borough-Gaol.

Gaoler, Charles Smith; Salary 40/.

Fees, 1 is. Sd.

Garnish, none.

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon, Mr. Haden; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 15, 3

Allowance. Three shilling per week in bread.

REMARKS.

Only one court-yard, 45 feet by 18, and one day-room, 12 feet square, for all description of prisoners. Two rooms for debtors, to which the Corporation allows straw and blankets. Two pounds fifteen shillings per annum allowed in coals, for the whole gaol.

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

DERBY, County-Gaol.

Gaoler, William Eton; Salary 120/. aftd for the house of correction 30/.

Fees, 171. 4d; besides which the Under Sheriff demands 6s. $d. for his liberate.

Garnish, none.

Chaplain, Rev. Ellis Henry.

Duty; Three days a week, Sermon on Saturday, prayers Monday and Wednesday.

Surgeon, Mr. Fox; Salary 10I.

(1800, Mar. 31, 18 '

Number of Debtors i 0 T

(1802, Jan. 29, , . 12

Allowance. Two shillings in bread per week each.

REMARKS.

Only one court-yard for men and women debtors, size 82 feet by 43, and a day-room 20 feet by 15, a debtor having no bed pays 6d. per week room rent. No free wards. Two guineas and a half in coals is allowed yearly.

No employment provided by the County.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES#

93

DEVIZES; Wiltshire.

Gaoler, Joseph Draper; Salary ioo/.

The keeper out of his salary of ioo/. furnishes conveyance of all prisoners to and from the quarter sessions, which are held at the Devizes in January, at Salisbury in April, at Warminster in July, and at Marlborough in October; also to the assizes held at Salisbury in March and July. He likewise provides straw, mops, pails, and brooms, to keep the prison clean; and has no allowance for a turnkey.

Fees, none.

Garnish, none.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Leddiard.

Duty, every Sunday; Salary 20/.

Surgeon, Mr. Gibbs; Salary 15/.

Number of Debtors, 1801, Dec. 15, .... 2

Allowance, none.

REMARKS.

Debtors sent to this prison are committed by the court of requests for the adjacent hundreds of Bradford, Melkibam, and Whorlsdown, the costs of which frequently exceed the original debt.

H

One

94 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

One of the commitments I copied:‘viz. debt lot. 6d. costs 15. 9d. additional costs nd. further costs, if the defendant is carried to prison, ioj. 6d. There is no separate court-yard for the debtors; and of the two who were there at my visit the 15th December 1801, one was associating with those committed for misdemeanors, and the other with the felons. The corporation provides no bedding for debtors.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

95

DOLGELLY; Merionethshire.

Gaoler, Rice Edwards. Salary 10I.

Fees, 6s. 8d.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Williams.

Duty. Prayers every Saturday, Sermon once a month.

Salary, 12/.

Surgeon, Mr. Ellis Evans. Salary 10/.

_ f 1800, April 2, .......c

Number of Debtors) Q T

C. 1802, Jan. 30, ....5

Allowance. If the debtor belongs to the parish in which the gaol is situated, he is allowed from the parish eighteen pence per week; if of another parish, the county allowance is two shillings weekly.

REMARKS.

There is only one court-yard, 36 feet by 28, for debtors, felons, and all description of prisoners. No dayrroom. No firing allowed. There are five lodging-rooms on the first floor, and three in the upper story for debtors. The County allows no bedding. No straw. Debtors are obliged to attend divine service.

H 2

96 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

DORCHESTER.

Gaoler, George Andrews.

Salary, 218/. for himself and two turnkeys.

Fees, 13/. 4d. which is paid to the treasurer of the county stock. Besides this fee the Under Sheriff demands 2-r. for his liberate.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. B>yer.

Duty three times a week, twice every Sunday, and once on Wednesday.

Salary, 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Arden.

Salary, 40/.

A Task Master, 60/. per ann.

Number of Debtors

1800, March 31,

1801, Dec. 29,

• 7

• 3

Allowance. One pound and a half of wheaten bread (made with the whole of the bran in it) to poor debtors, by order of the magistrates, but not otherwise 5 and a quart of broth per day each to those who work on account of the Gaol Fund, and they likewise receive half their earnings. Master-side-debtors, who do not work, maintain themselves.

RE-

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

97

REMARKS.

The situation of this gaol is most judiciously chosen, on the North side of the town of Dorchester, on a piece of ground still called the Castle, and which was formerly the site of a building of that description, at the foot of which flows the river Froome. It is bounded by a wall twenty feet high, which, from the Turnkey’s lodge, situate at the North side of it, completely surrounds the whole of the buildings.

The ground on which it is erected was, in' a most handsome manner, given by Francis John Browne, Esq. one of the members for the county.

1

Men debtors have two airy court-yards j and over the South front of the South-West wing are their sleeping cells, five on each side of the two upper

f

stories, ten in the whole. Two day-rooms, each about six yards by four and a half, and near twelve feet high; over which are two airy dormitories, in each of which are three beds, in case the number should exceed what can be accommodated in the debtors’ wing.

On the second story are two rooms for female-debtors, without communication with the floor above it, or below it, with beds, he. the same as the men; and over these the Infirmary.

The County provides an iron crib bedstead, a palliasse, two blankets and a rug for each prisoner.

There

11 3

9B ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

There is no allowance of coal either to male or female debtors except in the winter-season in very cold weather, and except an especial order is made for that purpose by the visiting magistrates; and the coals so ordered are not paid for out of the County Stock, but out of the Gaol Charily Fund.

Though Dorsetshire is not a manufacturing county, yet through the exertions of its magistrates, who alternately superintend the concerns of the prison, employment is found for all. There is a considerable edifice for the manufacture of hats, at which I saw numbers at work; others were employed in shoemaking, tayloring, carding, spinning, See. These manufactures have been tried for several years with success. The produce of the work is divided into shares, of which the debtor has one half; a sixth part to the keeper, to encourage his attention; and the remainder is accounted for to the County, and defrays a considerable proportion of the expences of the prison.

Upon an enquiry made into the characters of all the Dorsetshire prisoners, on charges of felony, during a period of fourteen years, it appears, that out of 393 of both sexes, there have been found 242"reclaimed, maintaining themselves by honest industry. A striking example this of the beneficial effects of employment in prison; and which, it is to be hoped, will be seriously considered by every county, and more especially in those where manufactories

IN ENGLAND AND WALgS. 99

factories have been introduced and discontinued on account of being, in their infant state, unproductive. Expectation of emolument by the County, from the labours of the prisoners, ought not to weigh so forcibly, as the credit of restoring the prisoner to society as a useful member.

This County, with a liberality which reflects upon it the highest honour, rewards those who twelve months after their discharge produce certificates, properly attested, of their having served those who employed them, faithfully, honestly, soberly, and industriously.

H 4

100

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

DOVER CASTLE.

Gaoler, James Hawker Bodar. Salary 30/.

Fees. See the table.

Garnish, is, Gd.

Chaplain. Lone.

Surgeon. None.

xt, r 1 x. ft 800, May 20, .... 6

JN umber of Debtors < 5 J 5

L 1802, Jan. 27, .... 2

Allowance, none whatever.

REMARKS.

Debtors do not now (as formerly) pay for water. There are three rooms, one r8 feet by 12; the other 13 feet by 11; and the new room 15 feet by 12 feet 6 inches. Each prisoner pays is. 4d. per week for a bed, though two sleep together.

The court-yard is 50 feet by 20, and the wall 28 feet high. No grates to let in air; and the height of the'wall, in proportion to the length and breadth, is so great that the Sun in Summer can scarcely ever reach the bottom, which is not paved; the ground is consequently damp, and the air unhealthy. Ashes, cinders, and vegetables, in a putrid state, were thrown into it. It is locked up at four o’clock, and opened at nine; so that the prisoners are deprived of a privy during that time. They are obliged to pay a man for fetching the common necessaries of life

from

IN ENGLAND AND WALES* IOl

from the town, which stand them in twenty per cent. above their value. They are also obliged to pay a woman for washing their rooms, having n< ither mops, pails, or brooms, fire, or candle, allowed.

When it is considered how difficult of access the situation of this prison renders it, how seldom it is visited in the winter, and that a debtor must be in confinement three terms before he can sue for his sixpences, he may, before the expiration of that period (but for the offices of Charity) be no more. It is much to be regretted, that prisons in privileged places are not put on the same footing with the county gaols, or the antient customs departed from, resumed. See the Statute 28 Edw. I. cap. 7.

I copied the following from the table of fees hung

up. £. s. d.

Arrest ...... 1 o

Commitment ...... 013 4

Guard money and bed for a night...o o 4

Discharge ...... 6 8

Yeoman porter ...... o 2 6

Clerk of Dover Castle.... o 3 6

274

I found no instance of a debtor having received the benefit of the Lords’ Act in this prison.

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

XQZ

DOVER, Town Gaol.

Gaoler, William Harris.

Salary, 20/. and a chaldron of coals and a suit

j '

of clothes.

Fees, 8/. id. discharge, is. 6d,

Garnish, is.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. Mantle, Makes a bill.

f 1800, May 20,

Number of debtors, < 0 T

3 I 1801, Jan. 30,

Allowance. None whatever.

o

o

REMARKS.

Three roorns for debtors upstairs, about twelve feet square. No court-yard. At my visit, Sept. 19, 1801, there was a woman who had been three years under sentence of transportation, and who had a child in the Gaol I

IN ENGLAND AND WALES,

103

DURHAM.

Gaoler, John Wolfe; Salary 120/.

Fees, none; Garnish, none.

Chaplain, Rev. James Deafon.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Sunday. Salary, 40/.

Surgeon, Mr. Ward; Salary 61. 6s. and his bill for Medicines.

— 1, f 1800, April 1,

Number of Debtors^ o -nt o

L1801, Nov. 8,

Allowance. None.

. 14 15

REMARKS.

Though there is no allowance from the County, Mr. Wolfe informs me, the debtors are not in want of the necessary supply of food, &c. Formerly the county members gave a profuse dinner of beef, pudding, ale, See. every Christmas. The prebendaries of the College also during their residence, which was every month, (except Lent,) had been accustomed to send a dinner each month; and some other charities gave money:which being made an improper use of, induced Mr. Wolfe to establish a soup kitchen in lieu thereof, thereby supplying prisoners of all description twice a week. Men and women debtors are kept separate by day and night.

104 account of the various prisons

Court-yards 20 yards by 18; men’s day-room9yards by 6; women’s day-room 6f yards by 5I; the common wards have iron bedsteads and straw mattrasses, gratis. There are likewise six separate rooms furnished, at 35. 6d. per week, for those who can pay. Though the County does not find work for any, yet the keeper finds no difficulty in procuring (for such as are not handicraft trades) employment in spinning, teazing oakum, beating flax, &c.; and every prisoner, however employed, receives the whole of his earnings. And, what is worthy of imitation, there is a fund to obtain the six-pences or supersedeas of a debtor, as soon as he becomes entitled to it. In many counties through which I have travelled, the keeper has informed me that no debtor has for a period of 16 or 20 years ever obtained the benefit of that benevolent act called the Lords’ Act, which entitles the debtor to receive six-pence per day from his plaintiff.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

ELY GAOL.

Gaoler, John Leaf or d\ Salary 25/.

Fees, none.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Charles Mules.

Salary 20/. Duty, once a week.

Surgeon, Mr. Muriel.

Salary, none; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 3, .... 1

Allowance. To paupers, five pounds of bread every other day.

REMARKS.

A court-yard, called the Gaoler’s Garden, thirty yards square; and a day-room six yards by five. Common-side debtors are allowed straw, two blankets and a rug. Two rooms in the Gaoler’s house for those that can pay. Every debtor is obliged to attend divine service, except prevented by illness.

EXETER, City and County, South Gate.

i

Gaoler, Richard Tarbart. Salary 30/. ior.

Fees, i6j. 8d. Under Sheriff’s liberate, 31. Garnish, is.

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon, Mr. Walker.

Salary, none; makes a bill.

r1800, 6

Number of Debtors < 0 ,

L 1802, Jbeb. 1, ....9

Allowance, Five shillings per week amongst all the debtors; if only one, he has the whole.

REMARKS.

No court-yard. One long room, 32 feet by 202 for common-side-debtors. Master-side debtors, who have a room tto themselves, pay per week each.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES,

I07

EXETER, Sheriff's Ward) St. Thomas's.

Gaoler, Richard Price.

Salary, 25/. out of which he pays a turnkey 3s. 3d. a week, and maintains him.

Fees, 141. 4d. Besides this, the Under Sheriff demands 31. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

f 1800, April 1, .... 3 3

Number of Debtors, )Q T

9 11802, Jan. 29......45

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

The Sheriff’s ward, or prison, is in t$ie parish of St. Thomas the Apostle; it has several large and convenient rooms for master-side debtors; if one has a bed to himself he pays 2s. 6d. fer week; if two sleep together is. 3 d. each. Common-side debtors have seven sleeping-rooms, but no bedding, or even straw allowed. No day-room. A spacious court-yard, with a walk of sixty yards, shaded by a

double

IOS ACCOUNT OF .THE VARIOUS PRISONS

double row of large elms. Plenty of water. And in the Summer they are let out at six in the morning, and locked up at nine at night. This seems to be absolutely necessary in so crowded a prison, and in one of the rooms of which, there are seven beds. No employment is found by the county.

FISHERTON ANGER Gaol-, see SALISBURY.

r

tN ENGLAND AND WALES. 109

FLEET PRISON; London.

Warden, John Eyles, Esq.

Deputy Warden and Clerk of the Papers, Mr. Nicholas Nixon, whose politeness and humanity endears him to all the prisoners.

Commitment Fees, 11. 6s. 8d. to the Warden.

and 2s. to the Turnkey. Discharge Fees, 7s. 4d. to the Warden.

and 2s. 6d. to the Clerk of the Papers for every discharge of every action.

Licence for beer and wine to Robert Richards, who is tapster to the Warden.

Garnish, none.

Chaplain, Rev. John Manley Wood, M. A.

Duty, every Sunday morning; and on Good Friday and Christmas-day the sacrament is administered.

Salary, 30/. paid by the Warden.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Jan. 11.

In the House, 230.

In the Rules, .75.

Allowance. None whatever.

I

I

IIO ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

t

REMARKS.

The Fleet became a Prison for Debtors, and for persons charged with contempt of the courts of Chancery, Exchequer, and Common Pleas, in the 16th of Charles I, after the abolition of the Star Chamber.

At the front is a narrow court-yard. At each end of the building is a small projection or wing. There are four floors, called Galleries: besides the cellar-floor, called Bartholomew Fair. Each gallery consists of a passage in the middle. The whole length of the prison is sixty-six yards, and rooms on each side of it about fourteen and a half feet by twelve and a half, and nine feet and a half high. A chimney and window in every room, except three, called Slip Rooms, without a chimney. The passages are narrow (not seven feet wide) and darkish, having only a window at each end.

j

On the first floor the hall-gallery, to which you ascend by eight steps, are a tap-room, a room called the Cellar-head, and a room for one of the turnkeys, and nineteen rooms for the prisoners; at the North end of which is the chapel.

The cellar floor is sixteen steps below the hall-gallery. It consists of the public kitchen, and four beer and wine cellars, and sixteen rooms for prisoners, and one for another of the turnkeys.

In

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

Ill

In the coffee-room gallery (the next above the hall), are the Coffee-room, made out of two rooms, the Strong-room, for the confinement of refractory prisoners, and twenty-two rooms for the prisoners.

In the third gallery, above the coffee-room, are twenty-six rooms, and a room at the North end. Over the chapel is an Infirmary.

In the top gallery are twenty-seven rooms. Some of these rooms being over the chapel are larger than the rest.

All the rooms I have mentioned are for master-side debtors, at the weekly rent of is. 3d. unfurnished.

They fall to the prisoners in succession (except Bartholomew-fair, which are in the entire disposal of the Warden) viz. when a room becomes vacant the first prisoner upon the list of such as have paid their commitment-fees succeeds to it. When the prison was built, the Warden gave each prisoner his choice of a room, according to his seniority.

If all the rooms be occupied, a new-comer is, upon the payment of his commitment-fees, chumm’d (as they term it) on the next room in rotation, beginning, at N° 1 in the hall-gallery.

OO O J

The apartments for common-side debtors are only part of the right-wing of the prison. Besides the cellar, which is occupied with lumber and shut up, there are four floors. On each floor is a room about twenty-four or twenty-five feet square, with a fireplace, and on the sides seven closets, or cabins, to sleep in.

1 2.

Such

Ill ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

Such of these prisoners as swear in court, or before a Commissioner, that they are not worth five pounds, and cannot subsist without charity, have the donations which are sent to the prison and the begging-grate. Of them there are generally about eight or ten. In the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons, 1728, there is a table of some charities; and it was ordered, by the judges Eyre, Price, Page, and Denton, that a table of Gifts and Bequests made for the prisoners in the Fleet, expressing the particular purposes for which the same were given, be prepared by the Warden, and hung up in the hall of the said prison. See table of fees, Trin. Term, 1727, in the Report of the Gaol Committee, page 16, which is hungup in the begging-grate, instead of the hall, that being the proper place.

There is plenty of water from the river and pumps, and a spacious yard behind the prison, where the prisoners play at skittles, fives, tennis, &c.; and not only the prisoners, but strangers who are admitted here, as at any other public place.

On Thursday night there is a beer club, which usually lasts till about eleven o’clock. '

In February, 1801, there were 230 prisoners; their wives (including women of an appellation not so honourable), and children, were about 200.

On my last visit to this prison, Jan. 11, 1802, I found (as formerly) the stair-cases and lobbies very dirty; and that every one preserved that degree of 1 clean-

1

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. I I 3

cleanliness in his own room which satisfied himself.

There is a Table of Fees to be taken by the Clerk of the Papers and Clerk of Enquiries, in the office, but not hung up in the prison. It is as follows:

Table of Fees to be taken by the Clerk of the Papers and Clerk of Enquiries of the Fleet Prison, pursuant to the Resolution of the Honourable Court of Common Pleas, in the Easter and Trinity Terms, 13 George I. 1727.

Resolution,

l~i. s. (i,

That there is due, and ought to be paid, to the Clerk of the Papers, for every discharge of every action, ...... 026

And for the copy of every cause, not exceeding

three, ...... 010

And for each and every cause, exceeding three causes, besides the one shilling a piece for each of the said first three causes, .... .004

[* That there is due, and ought to be paid, to the Clerk of the Papers, for his certificate of the prisoner’s discharge, delivered to the prisoner himself, without any regard to the number of causes he stood charged with, ...... 026

And for his certificate to the Warden of such

discharge, ...... o 2 &

That there is due, and ought to be paid, to the Clerk of the Enquiries, on the discharge of a, prisoner by the creditor, and not by supersedeas, ] ...... 026

* None of these three Fees ore taken; the Clerk of the Papers thinking them unreasonable and unnecessary. The rest of this Tabic are taken.

* 3

That

I 14 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

That there is a fee of 55. 4d. due to the Clerk of the Papers, for the allowance of every Writ of Habeas Corpus; and 4s. for the return of the first cause, and 2s. for every other cause, and 210 more.

The Warden and his officer’s duty are in the Rules and Orders of Hilary Term, 3 George II. 1729. and consist of 29 articles, signed R. Eyre. Robert Price, Alexander Denton, J. Fortescue; and are hung up in the Coffee-room and Tap-room.

The clauses against spirits are hung up in the large door entering into the prison.

The following Table of Fees is correct, and hung up in the prison.

A Table of Fees, to be taken by the Warden of the Prison of the Fleet, for any prisoner or prisoners commitment, or.coming into Gaol or Chamber-rent there, or discharge from thence, in any Civil Action, settled and established the 19th day of January, in the third year of the reign of his Majesty king George the Second, A.D. 1729, pursuant to an act lately made, intituled, cc An Act for the Relief of Debtors, in u respect to the Imprisonment of their Persons.”

' Every

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

“5 £• u d-

Every prisoner charged with one or more actions (who at his own desire shall go on the Master’s Side) to pay to the Warden, for a commitment-fee, ...... 168

Every prisoner charged with one or more actions (who shall go on the Common Side) not being entitled to partake of the poor’s box, to pay.o 13 4

Every person entitled to partake of the poor’s box o

Every prisoner to pay for his discharge, . o

Every such prisoner on the Master’s Side, who, at his own desire, shall have a bed to himself, to pay for chamber-room, use of bed, bedding, and sheets, to the Warden, per week, ...o

If two in a bed, and no more, for chamber-room, use of bed, bedding, and sheets, each to pay to the Warden per week, ...... o

If the prisoner finds his own bed, bedding, and sheets (which the Warden is in no sort to hinder him of) then he shall pay for chamber-room to the Warden per week, ...... o

If there be two prisoners in one bed, finding their own bed, bedding, and sheets, then each of them to pay to the Warden per week, ...o

o o 7 4

2 6

1 3

1

fy

j

/ Z

Every prisoner not being entitled to partake of the poor’s box to pay to the porter and gaoler, now called Turnkeys, on his commitment, ...020

Every prisoner on a commitment upon a surrender

at a Judge’s chamber to pay to the Tipstaff . o 6 8

Every prisoner on a commitment upon a h'al-ens

Corpus at a judge’s chamber to pay to the Tip- ,

stafF ...... 045

Every prisoner on a commitment 'in court to pay

to the Tipstaff ...... 076

i 4 No,

Il6 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

No other Fees for any prisoner, for the use of chamber, bed, bedding, or sheets, or upon commitment or discharge of any prisoner in any civil action, nor any commitment-fee to be taken of any prisoner intitled to partake of the poor’s box; nor any chamber-rent to be taken of any prisoner on the Common Side.

R. Raymond. v R. Eyre.

Tho. Pengelly.

Ed. Bellamy.

John Thompson.

Rob. Alsop.

John Barnard.

The Government of the Fleet-prison has undergone several alterations since the late Mr. Howard’s last visit in April, 1776. The tapster is not permitted to rent the tap, or hold any rooms in the prison to let out to hire; but is merely a servant of the Warden during his pleasure, and while he conducts himself well.

There is no committee of Government, or Law-Makers, permitted; or any person to interfere therein, but the Warden and his Deputy.

Nor are billiards, hazard, or any other unlawful games, permitted.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

Ix7

t

A List of Donations paid to the Prisoners on the Begging Grate of the Common Side of the Fleet Prison.

1. From the Court of Chancery, Hilary, Trinity,

and Michaelmas Terms, 5/. 5, 9. each Term, .15 13 o

2. From the Court of Common Pleas, 3/. every

Term, ...... 12 o 0

3. From the Court of Exchequer, 6s. 2d. every

Term, ...... . 1 6 S

4. From the Company of Drapers, annually at

Christmas, ...... 1 10 o

5. From the Company of Leather Sellers, at Lady-

day, Midsummer, and Michaelmas Quarters, 45. each, and at Christmas 6s.; and Bread, 2s. td. each, ...... 180

6. From the Company of Merchant Taylors, at

Christmas, ...... 1 10 o

' 7. From the Company of Sadlers, 2s. 6d. each

Quarter, ...... 0100

8. From the Archbishop of Canterbury, at Christmas 100

9. From St. Bartholomew’s Hospital at ditto, 1 13 o

10. From St. Ethelberg’s parish at ditto, ....090

11. From a person unknown, every Easter Monday,

from the Grange Inn, Cary-street, ..*..200

12. The Gift of Mr. Thomas Strickley, every three

Years, ...... 200

13. Executors of Mrs. Misson, in lieu of forty-eight

stone of Meat, at 29. 8d. per stone, at Christmas, ...... 461

14. Warden of the Fleet, at Christmas, . 1 1 o

IlS ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

FLINT.

Gaoler, Robert Williams. Salary 45/.

Fees, 6s. besides which the Under Sheriff demands 3s. 6d. for his liberate.

Garnish; none.

Chaplain, Rev. George Davies.

Duty, once in every month i Salary, 20/.

Surgeon, Mr. Joseph Ingle by. Salary, 30/.

Number of Debtorsf I^°°5 3>

I1802, Feb. 8, .... z

Allowance. Four shillings per week; out of which one shilling is paid for a bed.

REMARKS.

One court-yard, about fifteen yards square, and a day-room. Master-side debtors have five sleeping-rOoms, and &ach debtor pays one shilling per week for his bed..Common-side debtors have only one room, eight yards by five.

IX ENGLAND AND WALES. 119

GILTSPUR STREET COMPTER.

Gaoler, John Addison Newman.

Salary 150/. by the Court of Aldermen, and 30/. by the Common Council.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Edmand.

!Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Sunday.

Salary 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Hodgson.

Salary 80/. for the two Compters and Ludgate.

pi800, April 15, ... 28

Number of Debtors < 1801, Sept. 16, ....26

^ 1802, Feb. 27, .... 30

REMARKS.

The origin of this prison is somewhat enveloped in obscurity; but, according to Stowe’s Survey of London, wherein the following record (made in the reign of Henry the First) is recited, viz. “ Rex vie. <c London. salutem:ex gravi querela B. capt. et detent. <£ iriprisona nostra de Criplesgate pro £. 10. qua5 coram “ Radulpho de Sandivico tunc custod. Civil at is nojlrce “ London, et 1. de Blackzvell civis recognit debit, ff1c.” it appears that Cripplegate, which was one of the four original gates of this city, was then a prison, as the Compter now is, for citizens and others for debt or trespass, and was rebuilt in the year 1244, and

again

I 20

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

again in 149), and was last repaired in the year 1663. In the mean time, and in the 13th century, a prison was built for the reception of night walkers, and other suspicious persons, which, from its shape, was called the Tun, and was situated upon Cornhill. Afterwards there was a prison in Bread-street, pertaining to the Sheriffs, which was called the Compter, and, in the year 1518, seems to have been recognized by the act for establishing the Court of Conscience, which empowered its Commissioners to commit to one of the Compters for debts not exceeding forty shillings; but now, by subsequent acts, extended to five pounds. In this Compter prisoners were received until the year 1552, when, by reason of the keeper’s misconduct, they were removed to a new' Compter in Wood-street, provided by the city, and built for that purpose, which was burned in the general conflagration of 1666, and rebuilt more commodious than before, and continued to receive prisoners until the second day of April 1791, when the prisoners were removed to the present Compter in Giltspur ffreet.

It appears necessary here to remark- that the Sheriffs of London have each a Court of Record, as well as a Compter, where each sheriff in his respective court presides which courts are now held at Guildhall, every Wednesday and Friday, for actions, &c. entered at this Compter; and on every Thursday and Saturday for actions entered at the Poultry, excepting holidays, and a vacation in the month of

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 121

August; and each Sheriff has his office at his respective Compter, where his clerk-sitter attends for entering actions, See. and also to discharge such debtors as beedme entitled to their release.

. This Compter is now appropriated for the reception of debtors, felons, and other offenders, and also for vagrants and night-charges (the watch-house-s in this city not being permitted to retain prisoners therein); but the constable of the night must forthwith commit them to the Compter in his district; from whence a list of the night-charges so committed is the next morning returned to the Lord Mayor, or one of the Aldermen, in order that they may be examined touching the cause of their commitment, and be either discharged, bailed, or re-committed, to answer for their respective offences, according to due course of law.

The prisoners are divided into four classes; viz. Debtors, Felons, Misdemeanors and Assaults, and Vagrants; and the prison into nine separate and distinct yards, that is to say, the Master's-side, South-yard, 28 feet by 20, containing a pump affording soft water from the river Thames, and from whence a stair-case leads to two galleries, having each a sink and a cock supplying Thames-water, which is thrown by a forcing pump from a reservoir in the main yard to a large cistern on the top of that part of the prison, and descends from thence to the galleries; and here a difficulty sometimes occurs, from the forcing pump being out of the reach

122 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

of the persons to be benefited thereby. These galleries lead to six rooms (exclusive of the Turnkey’s-room on the ground-floor), having fire-places capable of conveniently accommodating two persons in each, male or female, as it may happen, provided that a man-prisoner is not lodged in the same apartment with a woman-prisoner; and these apartments are at present occupied by Master-side debtors, who pay for the same according to the table of fees, which are as hereafter mentioned.

2d. The Master’s-side. North yard, 30 feet by 18, being similar to the South in its construction and accommodations; but containing only five rooms with fire-places; (exclusive of another Turnkey’s room on the ground-floor), and is at present occupied by persons under commitment for assaults, or trivial offences; as also occasionally by the better sort of night charges.

The Women Debtors Ward, which has no yard, attaches immediately to an arched passage, to which is also attached the Keeper’s Apartments, the Keeper’s Office, the Outer Turnkey’s Lodge, the office wherein is transacted the Sheriff’s business with re-spedh to matters relating to his Court and to this Prison. This passage also contains all the main gates, or first entrances, to the Master’s side, and to the interior of the prison. The Women Debtors Ward is fitted up with four turn-up bedsteads, which are inclosed in the day-time, a table, and moveable benches, a water-closet, and a large cistern of

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 123

Thames water, with a good stone sink beneath it. This Ward has three windows next the street, a good fire-place, and is capable of lodging eight persons.

3d. The Commomside. Men Debtors Yard, 75 feet by 18, contains two pumps, the one supplying spring water from a well in this yard, and the other affording soft water from the river Thames; has a room at each end; one occupied by one of the Turnkeys, for the better security of the prison, and the other by the Steward of the Charity Wards. The wards appertaining to this yard are built upon arches, and divide the same into two parts, having communication by arcades under one part, and a common room, used as a workshop for those Debtors who chuse to work, under the other; in which .shop is a large table fixed, whereon the prisoners belonging to these wards divide such provisions as they receive by' charitable donations. From this yard is a stone stair-case, closed with doors at the bottom, and leading to four wards; two on the first story, and two on the second. The two upper wards are used as bedrooms, and are fitted up with sixteen low stump bedsteads in each, (which lay upon barracks, and are easily removed for the purpose of cleanliness,) and a supply of rugs for the use of the prisoners. The other two wards are used as sitting rooms from eight in the morning until ten at night, when strangers are excluded, and the urisoners locked up for the night. The Sleeping-wards would be

much

124 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

much improved, if all the beds were separated b}' dwarf partitions, having a door to each, but not reaching to the cieling, as thereby the circulation of; air would not be impeded, and the quiet prisoners would be protected from the insults of the disorderly in the night time; an evil which has sometimes occurred, but the offenders are seldom discovered. The Sitting-wards are fitted up with tables and benches.

These wards, together with that of the women debtors, are denominated the charity-wards, to which each prisoner at his or her entrance pays five shillings, to be applied to the common stock; eight-pence to the steward; and six-pence to the scavenger; after which the prisoner is at no farther expence, but becomes a partaker of all the benefits appertaining to the charity-wards. The court of conscience debtors for six weeks or less have the same benefits, upon payment of fourteen-pence only.

4th. The main yard, 35 feet square, leading to all the rest except the master’s sides, and women debtors, into which all persons in the adjoining yards (except debtors) are occasionally admitted in the day-time, at their own request, and upon behaving themselves orderly, but not otherwise. This yard contains two pumps, one with spring water, and the other with Thames water; two forcing pumps, for the service of the master’s side, and a cock supplied with Thames water upon the Main, to which by means

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

* 5

of a screw can be applied a long leathern hose, and thereby plenty of water is conveyed to all the yards* to wash and cleanse them and the cells. For this purpose mops and brooms are occasionally allowed by the benevolence of the Committee of City Lands, &c. On the North and South sides are two large rooms facing each other, and having communication with the arched passage before mentioned, which rooms are occupied in the day-time by persons desiring the same, and at night are the common receptacle for night charges; they are fitted up with benches all round, and a large German stove in each. They have each a detached privy, and are capable of containing twenty persons in each, for one night only:such night charges being afterward classed as aforesaid, having first undergone an examination before a magistrate. These rooms have stone floors, are spacious and very airy. There are a number of rugs laid on the benches for the use of such persons as unfortunately may become inhabitants in the night-time. Under another arched passage leading from this yard, is the inner turnkey’s lodge, and a stair-case leading to a very convenient chapel, over which are four good rooms, for the use of the sick prisoners, fitted up with iron bedsteads with good tickings, blankets, rugs, and canvas cases to be stuffed to make beds, as occasion may require.

From this yard are two other stair-cases, each leading to three small bedrooms fitted up at the

K. keeper's

X2, 6 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

keeper’s expence, for the use of such night charges, or others, as may desire to occupy them, having one bed in each room.

This passage has communication with five other yards, separate and distinct from each other:one being a small yard, having a pump of Thames-wa-ter, and containing three small rooms or cells, capable of lodging six persons. Another small yard, having a pump of Thames-water, and containing five rooms or cells of the same dimensions; at the.back of four of which rooms is a passage, having a fire-place at the end, and communicating, by means of an iron-grating, to each cell, thereby rendering them dry and warm.

Another small yard, having a pump of Thames-water, a little room with a fire-place, and four cells of the same dimensions; and two larger yards, having also a pump of Thames-water, and six cells of the same dimensions in each, together with similar passages and fire-places to keep them dry and warm; all which cells are fitted up with wooden barracks, raised about three feet from the ground, and each is provided with a canvas-case stuffed with straw, and two or three rugs or blankets allowed by the city.

These last five yards are for the reception of all persons except debtors; and no persons herein, or in the charity wards, pay any thing for lodging; and no garnish is taken in any part of this prison. There are also very convenient cold and hot baths,

to

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 12>J

to which all prisoners have free access as necessity requires, and at convenient seasons.

The allowance to prisoners of all descriptions is at present — ten ounces of wheaten bread daily, one pound of rice, and about live pounds of potatoes each weekly; coals and other gifts by the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs; and broken victuals from the Old and New London Taverns frequently.

Paupers brought to this Compter (as such) in order to be removed to their parishes, or otherwise relieved, are especially subsisted, and frequently cloathed.

The gifts by the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs, at Christmas, New-year’s Day. Easter, and some uncertain day after, are the same as mentioned in the description of Ludgate*.

There are also some permanent Donations of bread and meat at stated periods, which, together with the Sheriff’s seven stone of meat weekly, belongs to the charity-wards only, and is distributed among such prisoners in the said wards as have attended and properly demeaned themselves in the chapel during divine service on the preceding Sunday. The chapel clerk is Mr. John Peter Lawrence, who receives half a crown every Sunday for assisting the chaplain, and setting the psalm, by order of the Court of Aldermen.

* See Ludgate hereafter.

K 2

Money

128 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

Money is paid by several of the City Companies, by the Common Council of Farringdon Within, by the Trustees of Mrs. Ashton’s charity, and others, towards the release of debtors in this and other prisons, and is applied as stated in the account of Ludgate.

The List of Benefactions for relief are as follows:

In Lady-day quarter, .... ....19 s. 10 d. 11

Midsummer ditto, .... 6 7

Michaelmas ditto, ....8 1 10

Christmas ditto, 10 7

Together with the donation of Mr. Stretchley, of two pounds once in three years, which was paid by Ch rist’s Hospital in January, 1802.

There are also three other annual legacies, which have not been paid since the year 1793; viz. Mr. Fothergill’s, of 12s. Mr. William Cooper’s, of ioj. and Ralph Ramston’s, Esq. of io^.

All the donations belonging to the Charity-wards

00 j

are delivered to one of the prisoners, who acts as Steward; in whose name, witnessed by the Keeper, all the receipts are signed, and given under the common seal of the prison. This steward receives also the subscriptions before mentioned; and himself pays a rent to the general stock for the use of two closets, which lie again lets to his own advantage; he advances money upon the credit of the donations, out of which he reimburses himself as

they

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

I29

they become due; pays five per cent. to a collector; furnishes the Charity-wards with a constant supply of coals, wood, salt, candles, See. besides paying a weekly allowance to a basket-woman to collect broken victuals at the taverns, and for other messages, on account of the said wards; also contributes towards the support of such common-side debtors as may, by the surgeon’s order, be placed in the sick-ward; pays also a weekly allowance to the scavenger, and his assistant, called the Twelver; and is of real use to the prison at large. This plan of the application of the donations was first adopted by Mr. Kirby, when keeper of Woodstreet-Comp-ter, and appears to be the most beneficial to the unfortunate, as every comfort to be procured by the donations is thereby equally and impartially afforded; no disputes can arise from the quarterly division of money, nor can the prison be defrauded, as the steward is obliged to submit his accounts to be audited by four of the senior prisoners; and, though elected by the general suffrages of the Charity-wards, cannot be dispossessed, so long as he shall act soberly, honestly, and for the general advantage, and shall not be guilty of breach of the trust reposed in him by the keeper.

K 3

rr-'l

1 ne

I3O ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

The Steward’s Account with the Charity-wards,

for four weeks, ending Jan. 25, 1802, is as

under.

£• d.

By Prison debt brought forwards, .. ... 13 9 7

Jan. 4, Paper and Wax for Receipts, . 0 2 6

Paid signing Book, 0 X 6

Paid sending Letter of Thanks, .. 0 1 0

Coals, Men’s Wards, six bushels. 0 10 0

Coals, Wood, and Candles (Women) 0 0 3

Wood and Candles, Aten’s Wards, . 0 2 8

Salt and Newspaper, 0 1 8

Scavenger and Twelver, .... 0 2 1

Basket Woman, 0 2 4

One extra Basket, 0 0 4

Jan. 11, Coals, Men’s Wards, six bushels, 0 10 0

Wood and Candles, ditto, .... 0 2 8

Coals, AVood, and Candles (Women) 0 2 3

Salt and Newspaper, 0 1 3

Scavenger and Tv elver, .... 0 2 r

Basket Woman, 0 2 2

Two extra Baskets, 0 0 8

Coals extra forWilliams (since deceased) 0 1 8

Jan. 18, Porterage of Lord Mayor’s Gift-

Coals, 0 1 0

Wood and Candles, Men’s Wards, . 0 2 8

Coals, Wood, and Candles (Women) 0 2 3

Salt and Newspaper, 0 1 8

Scavenger and Twelver, .... 0 2 1

Basket Woman, 0 2 4

Two extra Baskets, . t . 0 0 8

o 12 8

Jan,

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. I3I

s‘

Jan. 25, Porterage of Soup from Soup-

house, and paid a Messenger, ...016

Wood and Candles, Men’s Wards, .o 2 S

Coals, "Wood, and Candles (Women) 023

Salt and Newspaper, .......018

Scav enger and Twelver, ....021

Basket Woman, ....022

One extra Basket, ........004

---- o 12 8

* 7 4 5

By four weeks room-rent, paid by Steward

to general stock, ...... 0120

Signed by four Auditors. Balance, 16 12 5

Which last balance was then due to the Steward on account of the said Charity-wards. He also keeps separate accounts of the money paid by subscription (the above donations being inadequate to his expences); out of which subscription lie pays one shilling and six-pence per wefek to keep the saucepans, &c. clean. A specimen of which accounts are here subjoined; viz.

Dr. Right-hand Ward.

s. <1.

Paid mending saucepans, 1 o Pair of New Snuffers, .o 6 Coals, Scullion, and Sand, 3 2

Ditto, ........3 4

One Bushel Coals extra 1 8

Per Contra. Cr.

s. d.

By Subscription of J. II. 3 o Ditto, J. W. ...50 Ditto, D. F. 5 o

kc. Sec. kc.

K 4

Dr.

Dr. Left-hand Ward.

s. d.

raid mendingTinWares, 1 o Pair of New Snuffers, .o 6 Coals, Scullion, and Sand, 3 2

Ditto, ........3 4

One Bushel Coals extra, 1 8

Per Contra. Cr.

s. d.

By Subscription of R. B. 5 o Ditto, \V. D. 5 o

Ditto of M. Court of Conscience Debtor, ..16 See. &:c. kc.

There is no expenee attending the commitment of prisoners to this Compter, either upon civil or criminal process; nor does any expence attend any person’s confinement (unless, at their own request, they are admitted on the master’s side); and upon Civil Actions the fees are as follows:for entrance, three shillings to the Keeper, and two shillings to the Turnkeys; for rent, two shillings and six-pence per week; but if there are two in a bed, then each pays one shilling and three pence:for the discharge of a masters side debtor, eight shillings and ten pence; and for the discharge of a common-side debtor, eight shillings. Debtors discharged by the Lords’ Act pay no fees.

An expence is incurred by prisoners of all descriptions, upon their discharge, exclusive of prison-fees above mentioned; and first of debtor ^, each of whom, being entitled to be discharged, must pay as follows (if upon one action only): To the Secondaries six shillings, to the Clerk- sitter of the Poultry Compter one shilling, to the Clerk-sitter of this Compter four shillings and eight pence, and to the messenger one shilling. If more actions than one, the expence varies, according to the number and nature of the 3 writs;

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

* 33

writs; which, if in execution, entitle the Secondaries to one shilling for every pound, under the sum of one hundred pounds; and six-pence for every pound above that sum; and this is called Sheriff’s Poundage*.

The Rules and Orders for the government of this prison were signed the 27th of November, 1792, by Lords Kenyon and Loughborough, and by Aldermen Crosby, Anderson, and Combe; they relate principally to debtors; the execution thereof is vested in the Keeper and his Turnkeys , and they are as follows, that is to say, Directions concerning the payment of six-pence to the Scavenger, or to assist him six days, and eight pence to the steward; directions for dividing provisions; for persons under judgment of fine and imprisonment to partake, in certain cases, with the debtors; to promote cleanliness; for due attendance on divine service; for cleanliness of prisoners’ persons; against opprobrious language; against profaneness and drunkenness; against molesting visitors, and to prevent visitors from molesting prisoners; to prevent women from*lodging in men’s apartments, and vice versa; against keeping dogs; to determine who shall not partake of donations; to prevent tippling; time of retiring to rest, and rising in the morning; against striking the steward, or defacing orders; more concerning performance of divine service; against disposal of

* An instance of 9$1, 10s. being paid for poundage has lately occurred.

prison-

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

* 34

prison-rugs; master's side prisoners to clean their stairs, passages, and rooms; not to quarrel, or use opprobrious language; concerning the placing of master’s side prisoners in their rooms; to prohibit the admission of wine or beer after eight o'clock in the evening, &c.

The mode directed by the foregoing rules and orders, to enforce obedience thereto, is by fining, or by confinement in a cell for any time not more than twelve hours nor less than three, for one offence, at the discretion of the keeper. And here the same remarks may be made with respect to rewards for sobriety, industry, &c. and for separating fraudulent from unfortunate debtors, as hereafter mentioned in the description of Ludgate.

These Rules and Orders have, in some few instances, been inadequate to preserve the peace, inasmuch as a prisoner posscsing personal strength has beaten and ill-treated his fellow prisoner, and has afterwards preferred imprisonment in the cells to making any apology for his misbehaviour; and has come out of the cells with a determination to repeat his offence.

The former remark-respecting separation of unfortunate from fraudulent persons, is also applicable to this prison, which, from its structure, affords the means of a further improvement respecting the first imprisonment of persons arrested upon mesne process for debt, whose separation from their families is likely to be but of short duration, and who might

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 135

(if they chose) be accommodated on such master’s side, and be thereby saved from the necessity of being suddenly plunged into the interior of the prison, among persons who it may sometimes happen are not of the purest manners, whereby the minds of many, heretofore honest men, may have been contaminated; and thus they have been rendered worse members of society than before such incarceration; and this seems to be the true intent and use of masters’ sides in gaols, so far as relates to debtors. But

such accommodation is, under the present system,

liable to impediment from the occupancy of the said master’s side by persons under execution, who may, if they please, remain there for several years together, to the exclusion of such unfortunate and perhaps innocent persons taken upon mesne process, without the ability of procuring bail, till the cause of arrest can be determined, many of whom, from the dread of a common gaol, may have submitted to unjust demands, and become the easy prey of the profligate and designing; examples of which, it is much to be feared, have not been wanting. Another evil respecting prisons is the wilful stay of debtors when they might obtain their discharge; thereby, by their seniority, filling the most eligible situations, and crowding the prisons, already too full of miserable and unfortunate objects.

The worthy Keeper of this prison and Ludgate does credit to his appointment, being equally humane and intelligent.

A List

A List of the Annual Amount of Permanent Donations to the Charity-wards in the Giltspur-street Compter; those not paid being marked in the margin.

£. s. d.

Sir Thomas Gresham, 0 0

Sir William Middleton, 2 6

Sir Robert Clark, 0 0

Mrs. Mary Halgrave, 5 0

Mrs. Hudson, 10 0

Air. Peake 6/. deducting land tax, .. # 16 0

[* Mr. Fothergill, J 2 0

Mr. William Cooper, .... IQ 0

Ralph Ramston, Esq.] .... «• O 10 0

Mr. St readier, or Stretchley, 2/. once in three years.

Mr. Joseph Carter, o 17 Mr. Ralph Carter, o 17

•Every other year, in Beef or Money, at the discretion of distributors.

Mr. J.ohn Shield, ...... 200

Mr. Thomas Dawson, ...... 090

Mr. John Kendrick, ...... 200

Mrs. Margaret Dane, a quarter of beef and five dozen penny loaves, on the 5th of November.

Mr. William Parker, ...... 200

Mr. Woiler, ...... 100

Mr. Peter Blundell, . 400

Mr. John Meredith, ...... 120

Mr. Thomas Chapman, ...... 050 *

* These three luve no: been paid since Christmas, 1793.

Leather-

IN ENGLAND AND WALES

237

. d.

Leathersellers Company, ...... 5 4

Ditto, ninety-one penny loaves quarterly.

Archbishop of Canterbury’s gilt, .........100

Lady Ramsay, ...... c 10 o

Mr. John Laurd, - 1100

Mr. Edward Corbett, - 2 o o

Mr. Richard Jacob, 2/. deducting land tax, 1 12 o

Sir Robert Martin, - 200

Mr. John Marsh, - 0^0

Sir Robert Martin and Mr. John Marsh, . 1 7 1

Mrs. Jane Sambach, ...... 100

Sir John Haydon, ...... 4 00

Mrs. Margaret Simcote, sixty penny-loaves every eight weeks.

* 38

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

GLOUCESTER, County-Gaol.

Gaoler, Thomas Cunningham; Salary 2001.

Fees, see Table. The Under Sheriff demands 6s. Sd. for his liberate: which is paid by the Committee of Prison Charity, in all cases of distress.

Garnish, none.

Chaplain, Rev. Edward Jones.

Salary, 50/.

Duty; prayers every Wednesday and Friday morning, and a Sermon every Sunday, Christmas-day, and Good-Friday. And likewise to keep a journal, in which he shall enter the times of his attendance, and such observations as may occur to him in the general execution of his duty; and to consider it as his duty, frequently to see all the prisoners, without the Governor or other officer being present, to enquire into their situation, to assist them with his spiritual advice, and to administer the sacrament at such times and to such persons as he shall think proper. It is likewise expected of the Chaplain, that he do attend the Visiting Justices, on notice of their visiting the prison, and lay his journal before them.

Surgeon,

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

739

Surgeon, Mr. Parker; Salary 35/. to find medicines; to visit the patients in the sick-ward once every day, and twice a week to see every prisoner. At every visit, to enter his observations and directions in a journal to be kept for that purpose; likewise to attend immediately, on notice from the Governor of any sickness that may require examination of a prisoner, before passing into the prison. “ He must report to the Justices, at each quarter sessions, the state of the health of the prisoners under his care; ” and attend the Justices (on notice given) when visiting the prison. The Surgeon to write in his journal what extra bedding, cloathing, food, or liquors, are necessary for the use of the prisoners; and such orders shall be considered as authority to the Governor to procure the same, and shall be a necessary voucher for the article in his account.

Number

of Debtors

(1800, April 12, { 1802, Feb. 2,

25

35

Allowance. One pound and half of good household bread per day, and one penny in money to those debtors who are certificated as deserving objects.

w

REMARKS.

140 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

REMARKS.

The Debtors have a spacious airy court, 70 yards in length and 19 wide, with a collonnade at cacti end 16 yards by 3*-. A day-room 15 yards by 12, fitted with every accommodation for frugal cookery; and commodious work-rooms, wherein to carry on any trade for their foie benefit, if they can procure employment from without; and if not, they are

j

supplied with work on application to the manufacturer, and paid two third parts of the estimated value of their daily earnings, and the risque of the sale of the articles so manufactured remains withthe county.

The prisoners for debt are in two divisions, or classes; one under the magistrates protection, to which all are admitted on their first commitment; but in

t

which no one is suffered to remain but on conforming to rules intended for the preservation of their'health and morals, and for promoting that decency and good order which must be their common benefit.

The second division is (as it is termed) the Sheriff's ward. With prisoners in this class the magistrates no otherwise interfere than to protect them against the ordinary means of extortion the debtors in it cc are liable to all such claims and consequences as the gaoler may, by law or usage, have authority to impose.”

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 141

Each debtor desiring to live under the magistrate’s protection has a separate bed-room, fire-proof, fitted up with an iron bedstead, a hair mattrass, blankets, quilt, and sheets, at the county cost: those confined in the Sheriff’s ward have the like accommodation paying the regulated room rent. Such as are far removed from, or totally destitute of friends, and without the power to procure their sixpences; such as are not able to work, or, being able, cannot procure employment sufficient to find themselves in necessary sustenance; such and such only are relieved from the public stock, on producing a certificate from the minister and some other respectable inhabitants of the place of the residence of any such debtor, that he is so destitute of friends, and a deserving object of the public bounty. An unlimited construction of the clause of the Lords’ Act, which allows debtors at their will and pleasure to send for or to have brought unto them any. ale, beer, &c. is the source of all the riot and disorder which happens in their prisons, and is probably a principal cause of their distress. By the Gloucester Bye Laws, the power to send for victuals and small beer is not only unrestrained, but a messenger is

J 7 o

paid by the public to procure it for them at all hours in the day-time. But in respect to strong liquor, no prisoner is allowed to have and receive for his own use more than a pint of wine, or a quart of strong beer in any one day.

L

Tael b

14a

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

Table of Fees to be paid by the debtors, being revised and regulated as directed by the act of the 3ad George II. and 25th George III. shall be as follows.

£• d.

For entering the action whereon each prisoner is brought into custody, either on process, capias, latitat, or execution, 100 For entering and discharging every second or other action, upon process, capias,

latitat, or execution, ...... 013 4

For the certificate of the want of a declaration, in order to sue out a writ of supersedeas, ...... o 6 8

N.B. The above demandable of the prisoner.

For receiving and entering every declaration against a prisoner in custody, ...o 2 o For each copy of a warrant against a prisoner, ...... o 3 4

N.B. To be paid by persons making the declaration, or demanding the warrant.

Attending upon every prisoner, to give bail, special bail, habeas, or other necessary attendance, out of the gaol, as directed by statute, per mile, .....o 1 o

That

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 143

That all the above fees (except for the keeper’s attendance out of gaol), when paid by any prisoner to the keeper, shall be accounted for by him to the public fund, in aid of the debtor’s maintenance.

Every debtor, who during his confinement has behaved orderly in prison, and submitted to the regulations with decent respect and attention, on his discharge is entitled to a certificate of such good behaviour from the Chaplain and a Visiting Justice, or Chaplain and Governor; and this certificate is a complete acquittal from all and every fee payable to the keeper.

The following table of taxed charges for lodging, bedding, &c. is allowed:

£, s. d.

Every person confined in the Sheriff's ward) finding his own bedding, per week, ...... o 1 o

Ditto with bedding allowed by the county, 026

[The certificate of good behaviour is a discharge from all demands on account of the two preceding articles.]

Every prisoner occupying a room in the

keeper's house shall pay per week, 026 Furnished, ...... o 7 6

By

L 2

144 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

By the police of this prison regarding debtors, it is considered as the best expedient to guide them to good, by the prospect of benefits; and no otherwise to punish their irregularities, but by removing them from a participation of those benefits. Had the exemption from fees been unconditionally given, they would soon have claimed it as their right, and forgotten it as a benefaflion, and this negative influence on their conduct would have been lost. Besides the service noted in its place, prayers are read the four other days in the week by- the Clerk or the Governor, who then distributes the daily

allowance of bread and money to every prisoner

who appears clean, and has behaved decently at chapel.

For this account of Gloucester gaol, and for much useful information concerning prisons and prisoners, I beg leave to express my acknowledgement to Sir George Onesiphorus Paul, Bart.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

H5

GOSPORT, or CHEYNE’ COURT; Hants.

Gaoler, John Handley.

Salary. None.

Fees, 17*. 6d.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 9, ......o

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

A day-room fifteen feet square, and three sleeping-fooms.

* 46 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

HALIFAX; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, Joseph Scott. Salary, none.

Fees, 1 /. 4s. 8 d.

Garnish; 31. 6d>

Chaplain, none.

Surgeon, none.

Number of Debtors! lSo°’ ... 13

11802, Feb. 4, .... 17

Allowance. Forty shillings worth of bread per annum, be the number of debtors great or small; one twelfth part of which is sent in every month.

REMARKS.

A court-yard, sixteen yards by eight; six sleep-]ng-rooms, two of which are charged to each debtor 6d. per week; two, 4d. per week; and two, 3d, per week. No firing allowed.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

* 47

HAVERFORD WEST; Pembrokeshire.

Gaoler, Samuel Howell, Salary 30/. Fees, 13J. 4d.

Garnish, is.

Chaplain, Rev. William Thomas. Duty, twice a week.

Salary, 20/.

Surgeon, Mr. Thomas.

Salary 15/. for criminals only.

Number of Debtors

1800, May 4, 1802, Jan. 29,

Allowance. None whatever.

o

REMARKS.

Only one court-yard for men and women, debtors and felons, and all descriptions of prisoners, thirty-six yards square; and one day-room, fifteen feet bytwelve. The County allows no bedding, but straw on the floor. All prisoners are obliged to attend divine service, unless prevented by illness. They are allowed firing in the Winter.

L 4

148

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

HEREFORD, City Gaol.

Gaoler. John Thomas; Salary 13/.

Fees, 6r. 8d.

Garnish, is. 6d.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None; when one is wanted, paid by the Mayor.

f 1800, March 30, . 1

Number of Debtors) 0 -n ,

I iboa, reb. 1, .....o

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

The Debtors have a small court-yard and a day-room. To the free ward straw is allowed by the Corporation. Master’s side debtors pay is. 6d. per week for a single bed; if two lie together is. 6d. each.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 149

HEREFORD, County Gaol.

Gaoler, James Gray.

Salary 100/. for Gaol and House of Correction.

Fees, i8j. iqcL besides which the Under Sheriff demands 4-r. Sd. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Underwood.

Duty. Prayers and sermon every Sunday, Christmas-day, and Good Friday; and prayers every Wednesday and Friday.

Salary, 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Cam. Salary 42/.

Number of Debtors

1800, March 30, . 1802, Jan. 28,

10.o

Allowance. One pound of bread per day each; and some allowance from the charity-box for every well-behaved prisoner.

REMARKS.

Men and women debtors have each a separate spacious court-yard. No day-room. The men have twenty sleeping-rooms, twelve feet by nine each. The women have eight of equal size, all free wards; but the County furnishes no bedding; if the keeper

furnishes

I50 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

furnishes a bed, he charges 2s. 6d. a week for one person; and if two lie together, is. 6d. each. William Brydges, Esq. left eight pounds per arm. to poor prisoners, of which the debtors have an equal share; and on St. Thomas’s day, one shilling is given to each debtor, by a legacy of Sir Thomas White. Men debtors have near half an acre of ground, in which they grow vegetables of all sorts. The magistrates visit this prison in rotation.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

rsl

HERTFORD.

Gaoler, Charlotte Willfon. Salary 180/. and for the Bridewell 24/.

Fees, 15J. 4d. besides which the Under Sheriff demands 6s. Sd. for his liberate.

Garnish, none to be taken, painted on a board.

Chaplain, Rev. James Moore.

Duty, every Sunday.

Salary, 40/.

Surgeon, Mr .Bradley ', Salary 20/.

f 1800, March 26, ... 8

Number of Debtors^ 1801, Aug. 14, .... 7

\1802, Jan. 31, .... 2

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

This gaol is situated just out of the town. Men and women debtors have only one court-yard, size 20 yards by 12. A day-room about 15 feet square. Common side debtors have 10 sleeping-rooms, about 12 feet by 10, which are free wards, but the County allows neither bedding nor straw. There are two rooms furnished, for those who can afford to pay 7s. per week. The chapel is very close, has no cupola.

Debtors

1$2 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

Debtors are not obliged to attend divdne service, but the keeper told me they frequently interrupted it. At my last visit (August 1801,) some of the debtors were employed cutting brewers pegs. The County attempted to establish a manufactory; but the expence # exceeding their earnings, it was discontinued. This gaol is properly surrounded by a wall 15 feet high, which being at a considerable distance from the building, admits a free circulation of air, and the keeper has within it a convenient garden. *

* See Gloucester gaol, page 140.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

* 53

HORSHAM; Sussex.

Gaoler, Samuel Smart. Salary 120/.

Fees; none.

Garnish; none.

Chaplain; Rev. William Jamefon.

Duty, Prayers every day, and a Sermon once a week.

Salary, 50/.

Surgeon; Mr. Dubbin.

Salary, 15/.

ri8co, March 23, ... 7

Number of Debtors< 1801, Sept. 3, ....7

v 1802, Feb. 4, ....3

Allowance. None, except to paupers, who have one pound of bread per day, sent from the baker and weighed by the gaoler.

REMARKS.

The situation of this prison is judiciously chosen. Hie debtors apartments are over arcades, to which the ascent is by a stone stair-case with iron rails. There are ten rooms (five on each side a passage five feet wide,) besides a day-room 28 feet by 12. They are allowed a bedstead, a canvas straw-bed,

and

154 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

and two blankets to each sleeping-room, which is io feet by y, and 9 feet high to the crown of the arch, and the County is so considerate as to allow half a bushel of coals to the men, and half a bushel to the women debtors, every day during the six winter months. Every prisoner not attending divine service (except in illness) is punished by close confinement or short allowance. There is no proper separation of debtors and felons at chapel. Here are two spacious courts, near half an acre each, with excellent water; and a wall encloses the whole prison. Near the gate is a poor’s box for obtaining prisoners groats, now six-pences.

There is one debtor in this gaol (now a lunatic), the date of whose commitment is February 22, 1767.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

J55

HULL; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, R. Raines Baines.

Salary ioo/. out of which he provides a Turnkey.

J

Fees; js. 6d.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None; but the Rev. Mr. Bromley, Vicar of Holy Trinity, frequently attends.

Surgeon, Mr. Swann; Salary 8/. 8r.

1800, April 1, .....4

802, Jan. 29, .....7

Number of Debtors Allowance. Four pence per day each.

REMARKS.

One court-yard for men and women debtors; size, 20 yards by 6; a day-room 22 feet 8 inches by 14 feet 14 inches. A master’s side debtor pays 2s. if he has a bed to himself; and if two lie together, in 3d. per week each. One room for

common side debtors; for which they pay six-pence per week each, and find their own bedding. In the depth of winter a bushel and half of coals (Winchester measure) is allowed to every room which is occupied, and has a fire-place.

J$6 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

HUNTINGDON.

Gaoler; James Dr age.

Salary 90/. 16s. of which the County pays 86/. 16s.

and the Corporation 4I. or.

Fees; ior. 6d. Turnkey, is. besides which the Under Sheriff demands 4s. for his liberate.

Garnish, is. 6d. by order of the Magistrates.

Chaplain, Rev. Isaac Nicholson.

Duty, Wednesdays; Salary, 20/.

Surgeon, Mr. Desborough; Salary 15/.

^ 1800, March 30, ... 4

Number of Debtorss 1801, August 20, .. 12

vi 802, Feb. 1, .... 8

Allowance. Nine pounds of bread weekly.

REMARKS.

Men debtors have a, court-yard, 53 feet by 26; a day-room, 30 feet by 14; and a sleeping-room, 16 feet by 14 feet 6 inches. There are two very small iron-barred windows, about eight feet high, intended as ventilators, and to admit a thorough air; but the beneficial effects are defeated by their being almost boarded up on the outside. The debtors

complained

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

x57

complained to me of excessive heat. The County allows nothing but straw. A debtor pays is. 4d. per week for a single bed; if two lie together is. 9d. each. Women debtors have a court-yard, 33 feet by 19; a day-room, 21 feet by 16; and a sleeping-room the same size. They have free air, and are better accommodated than the men. Attendance on divine service is optional.

M

158 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

ILCHESTER; Somersetshire.

Gaoler, Edward Scadding; Salary 125b

Fees; 141. 4d. besides which the Under Sh?-riff demands 6s. 8d. for his liberate.

Garnish, none.-

Chaplain, Rev. Thomas Rees.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Sunday.

Salary, 50/..

Surgeon, Mr. Poole. Salary, none; makes a bilL

_, (* 1800, April 7, . ...-28.

Number of Debtors < Q

f 1001, Dec. 27, ... 29

Allowance. Six-penny worth of bread per day* each:weight, Dec. 27, 1801, 2 lb. 7 oz.

REMARKS.

This gaol is situate near the river; and part of it is surrounded by an outside Wall about 16 feet high* which while it adds to its security, affords an opportunity for the growth of vegetables. Men debtors have a spacious court-yar-d where they pday at fives, tennis, &c. A day-room and mess-room about 20 feet by 12 each; those on the master's side have 17 lodging-rooms, for which they pay as per table. Common-side debtors have four cells built over those appropriated to the fines; and there being but one stair-case and one pump for both, there is a continual intercourse between them. The cells are-

9 feet

tN ENGLAND AND WALES. 159

9 feet by 6, and 8[feet high, ventilated by a niche in the wall at one end, and a semicircular window at the other.

Women debtors court-yard is 18 yards by 6, and separated from the men felons by a single iron palli-sade only, through which they can see and converse with each other. They have arcades, under which they can walk in wet weather; and over these are their two sleeping-rooms. The debtors are not obliged to go to chapel, and divine service was but thinly attended when I was there.

At my visit, in December, 1801, I paid the fees of a debtor whose plaintiff had forgiven him his debt, but there was another demand of 6s. 8d. by the Undef Sheriff, for his liberate, which I was obliged to pay before the prisoner could be set at liberty !

Somersetshire (to wit.) At the General Quarter Sessions of the Peace of our Sovereign Lord the King, held the 31st day of March, at Ilchester, in and for the said County of Somerset, and from thence by adjournment continued to the 6th day of April, in the year of our Lord 1761, before Edward Philips, Esq. the Rev. Thomas Camplin, Doctor of Laws; John Brickdale, William Rod-bard, Giles Strangeways, Esqrs. and others their companions^ Justices of our said Lord the King, assigned to keep the peace of our said Lord the King, and also to hear and determine divers felonies, trespasses, and other misdemeanors, done and perpetrated in the same county, and so forth.

M2 A Tar lk

l6o ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

A Table of rates and fees settled and established at this said General Quarter Sessions of the Peace, allowed to be taken by the Keeper of the Common Gaol, in and for the said County, by virtue of an Act of Parliament for that purpose, made in the 32d year of the reign of his late Majesty, King George the Second.

£. S. h7.

For the discharge of every debtor .... o 13 4

To the Turnkey ...... o 1 o

For every debtor lodging singly, weekly, '

including the use of bed and bedding 016 But if two debtors lodge together, both

weekly ...... o o 9

The gaoler is not to compel any debtor to lodge single.

If a debtor has a bed and bedding of his

own, then ...... o 1 o

If he lodges in the outside ward, then

weekly only ...... o o 6

tf a bed of his own then nothing for it.

Edward Philips. John Brickdale.

Thomas Camtlin. William Ropeaks.

Giles Strangeways.

29th July 1761, We do hereby approve and ratify the table of fees above written, pursuant to the said statute,

Eardley AVilmot.

William Noel.

JN ENGLAND AND WALES. 161

IPSWICH.

Gaoler, Henry Johnson; Salary 200/,

Fees. None.

1

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, R ev. Mr. Lee,

Duty. Every Wednesday, prayers; and on Sunday a Sermon.

Salary, 50/,

Surgeon, Mr. Stebbing.

Salary, 60/. for debtors and felons, Gaol and Bridewell.

{1800, April 10, . ., 7

q r\

1801, Oct. 13, .... 11

Allowance. Two pounds of beef per week each; and on Sundays a pint of beer and a twopenny loaf. There are [cupboards with separate locks and keys, that each may secure his provision.

REMARKS.

At a meeting of the trustees of Mr. Pemberton’s Charity, July 17, 1780, it was ordered, “ That the treasurer shall provide, as the trustees shall see fit, for the debtors imprisoned in any of the Gaols in the county of Suffolk, either for their relief therein,

M 3 by

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

by a proportion of bread, meat, and beer, as he shall think necessary, or for the delivering them out of prison. Nevertheless, such debtors in Ipswich Gaol as do not regularly attend divine service (unless prevented by sickness, or some reasonable cause to be allowed of by the Chaplain), and behave decently and reverently, shall not have any benefit or allowance from this charity.”

In this excellent prison there are eight different court-yards, spacious and airy, for the different classes of Prisoners.

Men and women debtors have.separate court-yards, and each a sleeping-room eight feet by six. The bed holds only one person; has a flock mattress, bolster, a pair of blankets, ' sheet, and coverlet, provided by the County; and they are likewise supplied with coals Summer and Winter to cook their provisions.

Their court-yards are open at six and shut at nine, during Summer; in Winter, open at seven and shut at six. Every court is well supplied with water, and the necessaries are all water-closets.

The chapel is in the centre of the building, well contrived, and easy of access to the several classes, who are partitioned off from each other. The women cannot be seen at all by the men during divine service. The whole prison very clean.

* N ENGLAND AND WALES* 163

KENDALL; Westmorland.

Gaoler, Miles Hay ton Salary 15/.

Fees; as. 4d. on being liberated.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None; when a prisoner is ill, he'is attended by the Surgeon and Apothecary of the Dispensary.

Number of Debtors, i8qi, Nov. 23, .... 2

Allowance. None. William Garnett, confined for a debt of 12/. os. $d. in a letter dated Nov. 16, 1801, says, fc Some of us prisoners “ have been thirty or forty hours without <c victuals.”

REMARKS.

The Debtors have a court-yard, 23 yards by 12; and the Gaol, is undergoing improvements for the better accommodation of the prisoners.

- m 4

ACCOUNT of the various prisons

KING’S BENCH PRISON.

Marshal, William Jones, Esq. the Fees and Emoluments of whose office appear, from the printed Report of the Select Committee of Finance, to be 2300/*.

Deputy, Mr. Hughes; whose income is stated in the same report to be 210/. This office must be considered as a sinecure; as I am informed the duties of it are executed by Mr. John Hill, who is also Clerk of the Day Rules, as well as Clerk of the Papers.

Licence, Beer and Wine. Tap let (See Remarks.)

Allowance. None.

Prisoners, in the Plouse, on an average number of ten years, from........500 to 600.

Prisoners in the Rules, on an average, 50 to 70.

Surgeon. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Evans; whose salary arises from proceedings in suits against prisoners, which are taken for and paid to him by the several Judges’ clerks at the Judges’ chambers.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon or* Sunday; and Sacrament once a month.

* If the account of the Fees and Emoluments of the Marshal's Office, which I have had sent to me, is correct, they appear to )ie upwards of 7900/. per ann.

N.B.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 165

N.B. Attendance at chapel being optional, but few attended when I was there (5th July, 1801); and devotion was extremely interrupted by the continual noise occasioned in opening and shutting the chapel-door during divine service.

The office of Marshal was formerly hereditary in a private family by grant from the Crown; but in the 27th George II. it was considered as improper for a private family to hold such an office; and that it would be the means of more effectually preventing extortion and impositions on the prisoners, if the appointment was vested in the Crown, subject to removal for neglect of duty, non-residence, or improper conduct. A bill therefore passed to enable his Majesty to purchase the future appointment to the office of Marshal of the King’s Bench prison, and 10, 500/. was voted for that purpose. By this act the King appoints — quamdiu se bene gesserit. Constant residence seems required, either within the Walls or the Rules.

The Marshal is to keep the prison in repair, and pay his servants out of the fees and emoluments. And the power of continuance and removal is vested in the Chief Justice and the other three Judges of the Court of King’s Bench.

By the Act 32 George II. the courts were required to meet, and to settle a table of fees, &c. to be taken of all prisoners for debt; and the prisoners were piotected by that act from the imposition and extortion of Gaolers. The Court of King’s Bench

settled

1 66 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

settled the following Table of Fees, to be taken of all prisoners for debt, &c.; and by the said Act they are directed to send at certain times in the year, to see that this Table of Fees, as well as a List of all Bequests, are hung up in some conspicuous part of the prison, and that the said Act is in every other respect complied with; and that eight days public notice should be given of this visitation. Any violation of the clauses in this Act subjects Gaolers and’servants to a penalty of 50/. The Rules of the Prison are very extensive, forming a circle of near three miles round the walls of the prison. The purchase of these Rules, I am informed, is ten guineas for the first hundred pounds every prisoner is charged with, and four to five guineas every hundred afterwards; and such security is given to the Marshal as he approves of; but all taverns, alehouses, and places of public amusement, are excluded.

Day Rules

Are allowed to the number of three in every term, unless the prisoner can shew good cause to the Court why a greater number of days should be granted him. Those in the Rules who have given the Marshal two sufficient securities, pay for the first day-rule 4s. id. and 3J. 10d. for every other day. The expence attending an application for a greater number is about a guinea and half. Those who are within the walls, and are too poor to purchase the Rules, and unable from the general desertion of their fiiends to find security, cannot

obtain

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 167

obtain this indulgence of the day-rules without paying a Judge’s tipstaff 10s. 6d. to attend him, and a further sum of i6j“. 8d. to induce the tipstaff to become security to the marshal, in case of an escape. As these men only give him security to the amount of 500/. those who are charged with more than that sum can have no indulgence of this kind.

Op the Prison itself.

It is situated at the top of Blackman-street, in the Borough of Southwark. The entrance to it from St. George’s Fields is by a handsome courtyard, where there are three good houses. The largest of them is the residence of the Marshal, one for the Clerk of the papers with his office on the ground floor, the other is generally let to persons of rank and fortune, who are committed by the Court for challenges, libels, and other misdemeanors. From this court-yard you ascend a few stone steps into a lobby, which has a good room on the- right hand side, and over it several good apartments which, I was informed, usually let at five guineas a week; also two rooms called strong rooms, to secure those who have attempted to escape. From this lobby you descend a few stone steps into a small square yard, where there is a pair of great gates and a small door, with a lodge for the turnkeys, and a room over it, generally let at one guinea a week. On the right hand of this gate, on entering the inner part of the prison, there is a brick building, called the st^te-house, containing eight large handsome

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

16S

rooms, let at 2/. 6d. per week to those who have interest to procure one. Opposite to the state-house, is the tap-room, where from 12 to 24 butts of beer are drawn weekly; in this tap-room is a bar, and on one side is a very neat small parlour belonging to the person who keeps the tap. On the other side a room on a larger scale, called the wine room, where prisoners and their friends occasionally resort to* The residence of the prisoners is in a large brick building about 120 yards long, with a wing at each end, and a neat uniform chapel in the centre. There is a space of ground in front of the building of about forty yards, including a parade of about three yards paved with broad flag stones. In the space between the building and the wall are three pumps well supplied with spring and river water; also another pump at the side of the further wing, with a spring of very fine water. Part of the ground next the wall is appropriated for playing at rackets and fives; and there are also in different parts frames of wood with nine holes in each frame called bumble-puppy grounds, where the prisoners amuse themselves with trying to bowl small iron balls into the holes.marked with the highest numbers. The building is divided into sixteen stair-cases, with stone-steps and iron railings. No. 1. at the further wing contains 21 rooms, and on each stair-case the ranges of rooms are divided by a passage or gallery about two yards wide. In the stair-cases No. 2, ' 3, 4, and 5, there are four rooms on each floor, making 16 in each stair-case, separated from each other by

a passage

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 269

A passage of about a yard wide. The stair-case

No. 6. contains 12 rooms besides two small cabbins.

No. 7, 8, and 9, contain eight rooms each. No.

10. contains 30 rooms, separated from each other

by a passage about 20 yards long and two wide.

No. 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15, are at the back of

the building, separated from the wall by a space of

v about eight yards. Each stair-case has eight rooms,

with a passage of about a yard wide. No. 16 is '

also in the further wing at the back of the building,

And has a spacious wide stair-case with passages or

galleries on each floor four yards wide, and contains

in the whole 20 rooms.

The whole number of rooms including the eight

state rooms are 224, the size of them in general is

15 to 16 feet by 12 or 13 feet: some few are on a

scale a little larger. In each room is a strong iron

range, and on each side a recess either for a bed or

a cupboard. All the rooms that were destroyed by

the fire about two years since are now arched with

brick, to prevent in future any fire from extending beyond a sin0le room. In the passage from the

v O IO

entrance to the back of the building is a coffeehouse, where there is an ordinary every da* at as.

' J

per head, with a pint of porter included. The Marshal, I am told, receives an annual rent of 105/. from the person who keeps it. Beyond the coffee-room is a bake-house, which pays also a rent of 36 guineas per annum. And on the opposite side of the way is the/public kitchen, where the prisoners

may

1^0 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

may have their meat roasted and boiled gratis before one o'clock. After that time the cook 'charges 2d* or 3^. for each joint, according to the size of it. Between the cofFee-house and the public kitchen, -there are generally two or three butchers stalls, a green market, and persons selling fish. And in the further wing is a large tap-room called the Brace, from its having once been kept by two brothers whose names were Partridge. Over this is a room of the same size occupied by a prisoner, where the newspapers may be read, and tea, coffee, &c. may be had. The lower rooms on the parade are many of them converted into chandlers shops, kept by prisoners.

The management and government of the prison is in the hands of a Marshal; who has under him a Deputy Marshal, a Clerk of the papers, several clerks, three turnkeys, and assistants. As the Marshal, Deputy Marshal, or Clerk of the papers, I am informed, seldom come into the prison, all complaints must be made by letter, or by a personal application at the office of the Clerk of the papers* If it relates to any quarrel or disturbance, it is generally settled in a summary way. The Marshal is a magistrate, and also armed with a Rule of Court, authorizing him to commit any person to the New Gaol for riotous or disorderly conduct; one month for the first offence, and three months for the second, but the prisoner may appeal either to the Court, or to a Judge out of term *

No

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

* 7 *

- No spirits are allowed to be sold in the prison; and by a Rule of Court, no women or children ought to stay in the prison after ten o’clock; at half past nine a man goes round with a bell, and at certain places calls out, Strangers, women, and children, out. 'The number of prisoners before the act of insolvency of 1797, was upwards of 600; about 200 were excluded* by the limitation of the sum and time. After the Act of 1801, about 150 were left in prison; many of those who had been a great number of years confined were excluded on account of the limitation of the sum; and others who were not within the term specified by the Act, not more than three or four were remanded under the act for fraud, £ec* At this time (March 10, 1802, } the numbers within the walls are 315* and 57 within the Rules.

When a debtor is first committed to prison, he is entitled to have what is called a Chummage as soon as he has paid his fees. This Chummage is a ticket given him by the Clerk of the papers, to go to such a room; and whether it is to a whole room, half, or the third of a room, must entirely depend on the number of prisoners within the walls; but as it is more convenient to persons when they first go to this prison to hire a bed for a week or two, there are always great numbers of distressed persons willing to hire out their beds, on being paid two or three shillings per night. Others, who are distressed, let their right to half a room at $s. per week, and. sleep in the tap-room, on the benches, in hammocks or

on

I72 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

on mattresses. The Clerk of the papers has the entire management and disposition of the rooms. He is assisted by the eldest turnkey, who goes round every Monday morning, and receives the weekly Tent of one shilling.

The poor side of the prison now consists of sixteen rooms, at the back of the building. The number at present is 1 2 to 15, and seldom exceeds 30. They are governed by a set of Rules of Court, made in the year 1729, asunder.

Rules and Orders, for the better Government, &c. made and signed the 25th November, 1729.

1. The stocks to be kept up, for punishment of blasphemers,

swearers, rioters, 8cc.

2. Against illegal methods of confinement. None to be confined in an unusual place or manner, unless for attempting to escape. And such may appeal to the Court or a Judge.

3. Marshal not to remove any to the Fleet by writ of Habeas Corpus.

4. Marshal not to remove any one from the Common Side, and

its benefits, without three days notice j during whick time the prisoner may appeal to a Judge.

5. Coroner’s Inquest upon the dead.

6. Agairftt Garnish and partial distribution of dividends.

7. Prisoners to send out for necessaries j and to bring in their own bedding, &c.

8. Table of Fees, these Rules, and a List of Charities, to be

hung up in a public room.

9. Marshal and Servants to behave with the utmost tenderness.

10. Turnkey

173

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

ids Turnkey always to attend at the door.

11. No servants to partake of, or even distribute, the Charity.

12. Chapel to be kept in repair. Chaplain duly to perform.

13. The abusive, to the Stocks.

14. Dining-room to be kept in repair for devotion, or conversation with a lire. Two rooms for the sick.

15. Those who make oath before. See. that they have not 5/.

See. to be admitted to the charities, offices ill the prison, See.

16. No person committed for any criminal matter to vote for Steward, &c. or to partake of any charity but the baskets.

17. Lodging in a cabin of any ward, gratis;

18. Any prisoner may be chosen Assistant, and enjoy the benefit of that station.

19. The seal of the Common side to be kept by the blaster of

King’s Bench office; and not put to any deed without the approbation of Marshal, Steward, and Assistants.

20. One supersedable action may be Superseded with Common

side money:more than one, not without application to' the Court or a Judge. No Judge’s clerk to take a foe oh the occasion.

21. The sick to be taken care of by the Steward and Assistants, who are to be reimbursed out of the first county-money.

22. Debts contracted by the Steward and Assistants, with the Marshal’s and Master’s consent, for support of the poor, to be paid out of the next dividend.

23. Steward and Assistants to have no pay for common business; or adjusting differences.

24. Prisoners entered after the first day of Easter-term, to'have

but one quarter of the Midsummer dividend.

25. All money brought in by the basket-men, or brought in

at Christmas, Easter, and Whitsuntide* to be divided

N mined! ately

174 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

immediately after paying the basket-men for their trouble.

26. If the Marshal advance money for a supersedes, he is' to be

reimbursed out of the next county-money.

27. Common Ado prisoners may elect an annual Steward; who

is not to be deposed, but on application to the Court or a Judge. No prisoner in the Rules may vote.

23. The Steve*d to enter in books the Tables of Fees, these Rules, and a List of the Charities. All, together with hi* Accounts, for inspection of the prisoners.

29. A prisoner, wronged by the Steward and Assistants, on applying to the court or a judge, shall be paid his damages out of the next dividend of the Steward and Assistants. If he complains unjustly, he shall make satisfaction from his own next dividend.

30. If the Steward or Assistants < r.d .vie the mn»vT ', successors

may call them to .ec- v t, and Aon meir dhiJends of the grate-money, See. for reparation oft lie injury.

3 r. These orueis to be read publicly every third Monday.

32. Marshal, servants, and prisoners, to observe their Rules,

under pain of the utmost punishment of law.

33. No clerk or servant of a judge to take any fee on occasion of

a edition founded on these Orders.

i.

(Signed) R. Raymond.

James Reynolds. E. Probyn.

Further Rules and Orders for the Government, <kc. made and signed the .10th day of May, 1759.

r. No person to bring any weapon.

2. Those, on the Master's side who demand Garnish to be turned to Common aide for a time, not longer than a month. Those on the Common side are, for the like offence, to

be

IX ENGLAND AND WALES. I 75

be excluded, not longer than a fortnight, from all profits,

except share of the baskets.

3. Doors of the great garden tcvbe shut at dark: doors of the

wards at nine.

4. Tin- chambers at disposal of the Marshal, See.

5. If a Master’s side prisoner neglect for a month to pay his chamber-rent, he may be turned over to the Common side till he pays. His goods to be delivered to him by a witnessed inventory. If discharged by the plaintiff, he may yet be detained for fees, and a month’s chamber-rent.

6. Xone to sell in the prison victuals or drink, without consent

of Marshal. A prisoner thus offending may be turned over to the common side for a month. Marshal to take care that those who sell do keep good order, kc.

7. Confirms the 14th Rule preceding; i. e. the great room for

exercise, and the two rooms for the sick.

«8. Prisoners turned to common side for offending, or nonpayment, to have no profit but share of the baskets 5 to bear no office; nor vote for officers.

9.These Rules to be fixed in the most public places, for inspection.

(Signed) Mansfield.

T. Dennison.

M. Forster.

E. WILMOTi

A further Rule and Order, Sec. made 19th May, j 760.

Those who attempt or assist an escape; who sell or promote the sale of victuals or liquors without leave of the Marshal j who assault another; \Vho blaspheme the name of Goo; swear, or make a riot; may be sent by the Marshal to any one of the following prisons in Southwark; viz. the County Gaol

n 2 for

176 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

for Surrcv, the Bridewell for that county, or to the Marshal sea j and there confined, for the first off nee, not exceeding one month j for a second offence, not exceeding three months.

This .Rule to he hung up.

(Signed) Mansfield.

T. Dennison.

M. Forster.

E. WILMOT.

On the same Sheet is,

A Table of Fees, to be taken by the Marshal of the King's Bench Prison, in the County of Surrey* for any Prisoner or Prisoner’s Commitment, or coming into Gaol, or Chamber Rent there, or discharge from thence in any Civil Action. Settled and established the 16th day of June, in the 33d year of the reign of his Majesty King George the Second, and in the year of our Lord 1760, pursuant to an Act for the Relief of Debtors, with respect to the imprisonment of their persons; viz.

£. s. d.

1. To the Marshal for every Prisoner committed on

any Civil Action, ...... 048

2. To the Turnkey on the Master's side, ...016

' 3. To the Marshal, on the discharge of every such

prisoner, ...... 074

4. To the Deputy Marshal, upon the discharge of one or more actions, executions, or other charge, and no airlher fee, though there be

ne\ or so many actions, .......t o 4 o

5- To

IS ENGLAND AND WALES.

' ll

3’. To the Clerk of the papers, for the first action

upon the discharge, ...... 030

6. To the Clerk of the papers for every action,

execution, or othei charge, to be paid on the discharge, ...... , ....004

7. To the Deputy Marshal upon a Commitment of

a Prisoner in Court, or at a Judge’s Chambers, in any Civil Action, if carried to the King’s Bench Prison, - 0 1 0

8. To the Clerk of the papers for the. same, ...010

9. To the said Deputy Marshal for a Surrender in Discharge of Bail, be there never so many actions, - 010

10. To the Clerk of the papers for each Action upon such surrender, - 006

11. To each of the four Tipstaffs, jis. 6rf. for each Prisoner’s Commitment by the Court, and carried to the King’s Bench Prison, in the whole, - 0100

12. To the Tipstaff that carries any Prisoner committed at a Judge’s Chambers to the said prison, - 060

13. To the Marshal, for the lrse of Chamber, Bed, Bedding, and Sheets, for each Prisoner, if provided by the Gaoler at the Prisoner's request, for the first 'night, in tint Common side of the said Prison, - 0 0 6

14. For the like use every night the Prisoner remains in custody after the first, .- 0 0 jg

15. And if two lie in a bed, la. each, - 0 0 2

16. For the like use of every Prisoner that goes on the Master's side, for the first night, - 006

178 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

£. s. d.

17. For the like use every night after the first, - 0 0 3

13. And if two lie in a bed, 2d. each, - 0 0 4

J9. And if the Prisoner finds his own Bed, Bedding, and Sheets (which the Marshal is in no sort to hinder him of), then he shall pay for Chamber-rent to the Marshal, per week, - 0 1 0

No other Fee for the Use of Chamber, Bed,

Bedding, and Sheets, or upon Commitment or Discharge of any Prisoner on any Civil Action.

Thomas Howard. Mansfield.

Anthony Thomas Abdy. T. Parker,

William Hammond.

I copied the following List of Benefactions, on the 6th of March, 1802, from the Book kept on the Common Side of the Prison; it is entitled, <c An Account of Gifts and Donations to the poor (i Prisoners on > the Common Side of the King’s Bench Prison.”

jT.s. d.

County-money, paid quarterly, by the Clerk, to the Chief Justice of the Court of King’s Bench, at 13/. per quarter, ...... 60 o o

The Gift of Sir Thomas Gresham, paid by the Chamberlain of London, at 2/. 105. per quarter, .1000

Lady Bertie, at Lady-day yearly (deducting Land-Tax) ...... 200

Mr 

in England and wales.

Mr. John March, i /. and Interest of Old South Sea Annuities, 12.V. <p/. paid at Michaelmas, / by the Mercers Company, ......

i 12 5

Mrs. Smith, at Christmas yearly, paid by Fishmon gars’ Company, ......

034

Mrs. Hackett, ditto, by ditto, Arthur Mouse, Esq. by ditto.

. o 13 4

0 3 4

Parish of St. Sepulchre, yearly,

Sir John Peachy, Christmas, year!

yearly, by Grocers ’

o 10 o

Company,

. 050

Mr. Garrett, by Salters’ Company, ditto, annually, o 6 S

Robert Rampston, Esq. called Brass Money (deduct

Land Tax) ...... 100

Lady Ramsey, every Christmas, 100 lb, of beef, sent by Allhallows and St. Andrew’s Undershaft, alternately.

Mrs. Margaret Deane, nine and a half stone of Beef, and five dozen of bread yearly, by Ironmongers ’

Company.

Mrs. Margaret Symcott, sixty-five penny loaves every eight weeks.

The Leathersellers Company, in bread 2s. 2d. and in cash, sometimes 4s. sometimes 8s. quarterly.

St. Dunstan in the East, a fore quarter of Beef, weight 27 stone, 6 lb. and a peck of Oatmeal, yearly, at Midsummer.

Company of Parish Clerks, yearly, on 1st November, 1 1 o

The Company of Drapers, sixty penny loaves annually, in December, ...... , ..050

Mr. Horne, ditto by ditto,

050

Lady Osborne, qarterly, ton

200

The

180 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

£. 5. rf.

The Company of Cutlers, annually, in December, the

Gift of Mr. Craythorne, - 0 15 Q

fl he Gift of Thomas Dawson, Esq. paid annually by

the parish of St. Ethelburg, - 0 9 0

His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury usually gives at Christmas, - 100

The Sadler's Company, a free Donation of 2s. 6cl.

par quarter, - 0100

The City of Norwich, annually, - x 1 o

When once admitted on the poor-side they are entitled to their share of all charities, bequests, gifts, and donations, a list of which ought to be put up in some conspicuous part of the prison, but which for some reasons is not complied with; every person, as soon as he is admitted on this charity, must also take his turn to hold the begging-box at the door, which prevents many, who have lived in respectable situations, from applying for relief in this way; and there are instances of men who have held situations in the army and navy, respectable merchants and tradesmen, who, sunk into misfortunes, and abandoned by their former friends, rather than submit to this degradation, have shut themselves up for months in their rooms, and become so emaciated from the want of wholesome and necessary food, as to lay the foundation of those disorders which have ended in their death.

The stair-cases and lobbies are in the most filthy state imaginable; and, in respect to the prisoners rooms, some are very dirty, others tolerably clean, each preserving that degree of cleanliness which satisfies himself.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

iSr

KINGSTON UPON HULL. See HULL.

KINGSTON; Surrey.

.Gaoler, William Walter. Salary, none.

Fees, 31. d.d.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. Taylor,

Salary, none; makes a Bill.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 27, - 0

Allowance. None but what they can get by begging at the window.

REMARKS.

No court-yard, the debtors pay one shilling per week for a bed. No firing allowed. This prison belongs to the Bailiffs and Corporation, who hold a Court of Record.

102 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

KNARESBOROUGH CASTLE, Yorkshire.

Gaoler, William Ellison.- Salary, none. Fees, 6s. 8c/.

Garnish. None,

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

f 1800, May 17,

Number of debtors, a 0 T'0

? L1802, Jan. 28,

1

2

Allowance. None whatever, not even straw to*J

lie upon.

REMARKS.

Only one court 5 yards and three quarters, by 3 yards and three quarters. Two sleeping-rooms, one 4! yards by 24 yards, the other 5 yards by 24 yards. In a letter dated 29th June 1800, the only prisoner here was William Emsley, committed for debt 30th June 1799; who says <e any person C£ wishing to see him, uoon obtaining the gaoler's

O 7 2 OO

tc leave, must pass through six doors; he has only

<c the yard above described to walk in; the window

(e and wall so high, that he has very little light, or

£< air. That, since he came in, he had a fellow

prisoner,

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

lS3

CC prisoner, but he only lived ten weeks; he him-c‘ sell had been ill for seven weeks; and that the <c preservation of his life was owing to the gratuitous “ attendance of Mr. Day, Surgeon at Harrowgate, “ and Mr. Dent, Surgeon of Knaresborough.” Emsley’s debt was 17/. 55. Costs 11/. 7s. 1 \cL “ Ah these lesser prisons should be abolished, “ and an uniform code of laws framed for the police fiC of all gaols. The laws of a kingdom ought to ((be general and uniform in a well-regulated state.”

Howard.

184 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

LANCASTER CASTLE.

Gaoler, John Higgin; Salary, 400/. out of which he pays the turnkeys.

Fees. None.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. John Woodrow.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, and, Friday. Salary, 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Baxendale; Salary, 20/. and allowed for Medicines.

Number of Debtors

f 1800, April 7, .... 87 \ 1802, Feb. 6, ....99

Allowance. One shilling per week, and ten pounds of potatoes each.

REMARKS.

The debtors have a very spacious court-yard; and a large arcade on the West side of the prison, for exercise in wet weather; over it are 6 day-rooms 14 feet9by 12 feet 3, and 4.day-rooms 20 feet9by 12 feet 3. In a wing adjoining, are 3 rooms, 20 feet by 14. In'the Well Tower there are four spacious rooms about

25 feet

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. I 8$

25 feet by io each. In the Gateway Tower are 5 spacious rooms, about 36 feet by 14. Every ward is free. Any debtor not attending divine service, upon complaint to the treasurer, forfeits his allowance. They find their own beds, or pay is. per week for the use of one. No work is provided by the County, because there is not sufficient room even for the debtors’ beds in this crowded prison.

135 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

LEICESTER, Borough Gaol

' Gaoler, Wclby Oivston; Salary, 37/.

Fees, 15s. l\(1. and the Under Sheriff demands 6s. SR for his liberate *

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. l\ev. Thomas P^cbinson.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon once a month.

Salary, 1 cl. ioj.

Surgeon, Mr. Maule.

Salary, none; makes a bill.

C I SOO, 9 . r> . (2 *

Number of Debtors i 0 ,

I 1002, lHeb. 2, .......1

Allowance. Twenty-two ounces of bread per day each.

REMARKS.

A court-yard 33 feet by 16, for men debtors; and a day-room 13 feet by 12. Women debtors have a court-yard 40 feet by 16, and a day-room 13 feet by 12 R To the free wards, the Borough allows bedsteads and mats. Master’s side debtors pay 2s. 4d. per week for a single bed; and if two lie together, 9d. each.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 187

LEICESTER, County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Simons.

Salary, 130/. out of which lie allows every prisoner a quart of small-beer daily.

Fees, 13X. 4d. besides which the Under Sheriff takes a fee of 6s. 8d. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Anderson.

Duty, Prayers every day, Sermon on Sunday.

Salary, 60/.

Surgeon, Mr. Maule. Salary, 15/.

/ 1800, March 28, ... 18 Number of Debtors i 0 T

l 1002, Jan. 27, .... 4

Allowance. One pound five ounces of bread and one quart of small-beer daily.

REMARKS.

ri he court-yard is 74 feet by 32, and day-room 29 feet by 13*. No firing allowed by the County, nor any employment furnished. The common-side debtors have 10 rooms, to which the County allows bedsteads and mats. 1 he master’s side pa'for a room and bedding 25.4/ per week; if two sleep together, is, 6d. each.

i88

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

LENTON, late BAS FORD; Nottinghamshire«

Gaoler, George IVombwelL Salary. None.

Fees, 13.H 4d.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 15, .... a Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

One court-yard 18 feet by 16. Four small room's, those who have a bed pay is. 6d. per week. No firing allowed by the County, or any employment: provided for the prisoners.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 189

LICHFIELD, City and County Gaol> Staffordshire.

Gaoler, John 'Pricket. Salary 50/.

Fees, 13-f. Afd.; besides which the Under Sheriff demands 2s. 6d. for his liberate.

Garnish, u.

Chaplain, none; the Rev. Mr. Proby attends when one is desired.

Surgeon. The Parish Surgeon, if one is wanted.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 11, - 0

Allowance. Sixpence per day from the parish, if paupers.

REMARKS.

Debtors have a court-yard, 14 yards by 10; and a day-room, 20 feet by 12. To poor debtors the City allows a chaff-bed, with blankets. If the Keeper furnishes a bed, and two sleep together, they pay one shilling per week each. They are aliowed the use of the Keeper’s kitchen, or else find their own coals, for fire in their apartments.

LINCOLN CASTLE Gaol.

Gaoler, John Merryweather. Salary, 300/. See Remarks.

Fees. None; but the Under Sheriff demands 6s. 8d. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. George Davies Kent.

Duty. Twice a week Prayers, and a Sermon on Sunday.

Salary, 30/.

Surgeon, Mr. Paul Parnell; Salary, 30/.

Number of Debtors

1800, March 26, 1 Bor, Nov. 20,

* 4 16

Allowance. To certificated debtors, one pound and a half of good household-bread -per day; and one pound of good beef, without bone* per week each. The bread is delivered out in loaves of three pounds and a half each, three times in the week. Debtors, who receive their six-pences, have no County Allows ance of food.

REMARKS.

The Gaoler is required to find three Turnkeys, and a Caterer to purchase in the Town whatever the

Prisoners

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 191

Prisoners may require (liquor excepted); also eight thaldron of coals a year, together with straw, tubs, buckets, &c. for the use of the prison. All these the Keeper furnishes but of his salary. The debtors are also allowed four chaldron of coals annually, which are distributed half-quarterly amongst them. There are five pounds paid every Easter from a farm in the neighbourhood; and three pounds out of a house in Lincoln; in two half-yearly payments; which, together with sundry Benefactions that may be averaged at six pounds a year, are equally distributed amongst them. The chapel is partitioned* to prevent debtors and felons from seeing each other. The debtors apartments front a large grass-plat of hear two acres, where they have the privilege of tvalking during the day. Their rooms are very good and lofty. The sexes are completely separated by day and night. There is no communication whatever between debtors and felons; and there is plenty of excellent water, both hard and soft, at all times accessible to the prisoners'.

192 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

LIVERPOOL.

Gaoler, Edward Frodsham, who is also a Serjeant at Mace.

Salary, 130/.

Fees, 4s. The Under Sheriff demands one shilling for his liberate.

Garnish, 4s. 6d.

Chaplain, Rev. George Monk.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon on Sunday; and Prayers on Thursday.

Salary, 31/. ior.

Surgeon, from the Dispensary, when wanted.

Salary, 10/. ior.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 13, .... 56

Allowance. To paupers three pence per day in bread.

REMARKS.

A court-yard, 20 yards by 10; and a day-room four yards square. Common-side debtors have eight rooms, to which the Borough allows straw. Master-side debtors have eight rooms, with beds furnished by the Gaoler at one shilling per week each, if two lie together. Firing is allowed to the day-room, by the Borough.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

* 93

LOSTWITHIEL; Cornwall

Gaoler, Bernard Westlake.

Salary. None.

Fees, 13J. 4d.

Garnish, is.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

Three court-yards; one 46 feet by 14; the other 36 feet by 24; and a smaller, 14 feet by 11. Twenty sleeping-rooms; two lie together, and pay six-pence per week each. This is a stannary prison for debtors only, and belongs to his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. The present Keeper, and his father, have been the Gaolers upwards of fifty years, without a salary !

* 3

LUDGATE; London.

Gaoler, John Addison Newman; Salary, iooh Fees; see Remarks.

Chaplain, Rev. John Rose.

Duty, Prayers and a Sermon every Sunday. Salary, 50/.

Surgeon; Mr. Hodgson.

Salary, 801, for Ludgate and the two Compters.

Fi8oo, April 15, ... 28

dumber of Debtors^ 1801, Sept. 16, .... 12

C1802, March 14, .., 22

REMARKS.

This Prison was formerly one of the Gates of th$ City of London, ^nd was situated on Ludgate-hill, near the spot where the London Coffee-house now stands, and is at present appropriated for the reception of debtors being Freemen of London, Clergymen, Proctors, or Attorneys, or such other Persons as the Court of Lord Mayor and Aldermen shall, from time to time, think fit to be removed hither. It is believed to have formerly had £he privilege of permitting prisoners to go out (with a Keeper) for the purpose of calling upon their several creditors to

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 195

compromise their debts, or otherwise obtain their discharge; but that custom, whatever might have caused its origin, has many years been discontinued, and cannot now be traced.

About forty years ago, when Old Ludgate (to which the Table of Fees, and Rules and Orders for its Government, were adapted), was pulled down, the Prisoners were removed to the London Work-house, in Bishopsgate-street, a part whereof was fitted up for that purpose, and where Ludgate prisoners continued to be received until the year 1794, when they were removed to the present prison of Ludgate, adjoining to, and partly encircled by, the Compter, in Giltspur-street.

Ludgate has one small yard, 25 feet by 10; containing a pump supplying spring-water from a well in the Compter, and another affording soft-water from the river Thames; and a shed, under which is a bathing-tub. KJ

The yard leads to eight rooms; viz. the Hall, fitted up with benches and tables, for the general accommodation of all the Prisoners, as a sitting-room in the day-time, and until they usually retire to rest; and it is the custom of this prison for the prisoners to have access to the yard at all times, either by day or night. This room has one fire-place, which is supplied by a subscription of the prisoners of six shillings at their entrance, and seven pence weekly afterwards, aided by the charitable donations, the surplus of which, after payment of certain

196 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

salaries hereafter described, is divided quarterly among such prisoners as have been in custody for the space of one month before the same became due.

The long room over the hall, which will conveniently contain six persons, as a bed-room. The room over the long room which will contain two persons, exclusive of two little rooms partitioned therefrom for the use of the sick.

A smaller room over the chapel, (which is on the ground floor and under the same roof with the hall,) and which together with another room over it in the second story are convenient bedrooms for three persons each; and two closets which are used as bed rooms for one person each.

Two other rooms on the ground-floor on the other side of the yard, one of which is the bedroom of the steward and secretary, and the other a bed-room for three persons. And the women’s ward over the steward’s room, which will contain three persons.

All the prisoners here find their own beds and

The present allowance to the prisoners in Ludgate is ten ounces of wheaten bread daily to each, one pound of rice, about five pounds of potatoes each ', and one stone of eight pounds of beef, being rather better than two pounds and an half each, and of no inferior quality, weekly.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 197

At Christmas one pound of beef, oiie pint of porter, and one loaf value three halfpence, or potatoes in lieu thereof. On New Year’s day, at Easter, and on some uncertain day after, the same gift by the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs, who also occasionally give coals according to their discretion. Lady Taylor, relict of the late Sir Robert Taylor, on Christmas-eve gives eight pounds of beef, an halfpeck loaf, and a sack of coals, to each prisoner, and the same to the turnkey. A society of gentlemen give quarterly a pound of beef and a two-penny loaf to each prisoner, and to the out-door steward (a person whose office is to collect the permanent donations), and one shilling for coals to dress the meat.

There are also some permanent donations of bread and meat at stated periods, besides some private gifts. Money is also paid by several of the city companies, and others, towards the release of debtors in this and other prisons, and is most frequently applied towards the discharge of such prisoners who cannot obtain the same without undertaking to pay seme further mm*in addition to the money raised by such donations, and who are thereby prevented from availing themselves of the bounty of the Honorable and Benevolent Society for Relief of Debtors, held in Craven Street in the Strand, and of which description

* The Society for the Relief and Discharge of Persons confined for Small Debts always requires a receipt in full.

198 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

are the legacies of Mr. Humble, (paid by the Leathersellers’ Company to the amount of eight pounds per annum,) Mrs. Ashton, and others. The legacy of Lady Rich is usually paid in aid of the legacies of Mr. Humble, Mrs. Ashton, or any other, for the release of prisoners at one moiety by each legacy, and if the sum of twenty-four pounds has not been advanced for such release before the payment of Lady Rich’s legacy, then the remainder is divided among such of the prisoners who were on the Christmas-day preceding and still remain in custody; but here a receipt in full is required. The list of Benefactions amount to 141/. 16s. 4d, but they are not all payable. The sum paid there out for relief during the last year (1801) being,

£. s. d.

At Christmas, 1800, .........18 411

At Lady-day, 1801, .........2, 1 o 5

At Midsummer, ...... 7 o 1

At Michaelmas, ...... 6 11 4

' Together with lady Rich's......24 o o

76 16 9

was divided in April 1801, among eighteen prisoners who had remained in custody since the preceding Christmas:no person having in the course of twelve months prior to the payment thereof been released thereby. The donation of Mr. Stretchley, of two pounds every third year, is payable by

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 199

Christ’s Hospital on Christmas-day, (Old Stile.,) being the 6th day of January 1802.

Miss Misson’s legacy of 61. was paid Feb.

22, 1802, deducting trustee’s coach-

hire and stamp, ...... 516 4

The prison-fees now taken are, coming in ir, going put 25.; and 3d. per week during confinement. The whole expence attending a commitment to Ludgate, exclusive of the prison fees, is, to the clerk-sitter of one of the compters for making out the Duce tecum (as it is called), 25. 6ci, if in execution, and 15. 4d. if in mesne process. To the serjeant at mace for conduct fee, 55. Upon discharge it is various, being according to the number of writs, but if only one writ, then at the secondaries office 55. 4d; to the clerk-sitter at each of the two compters 35. 8^.; and to the messenger one shilling.

The rules and orders for the government of this prison were first signed, together with the table of fees, in the year 1729, and have since been confirmed and new ones made by the several lord mayors and court of aldermen, and sometimes by the sheriffs for the time being, and the execution vested in the keeper and eight of the prisoners, under the title and description of the court of keeper, steward, and assistants, who are thereby empowered to make such further orders as are necessary for the good governing and quiet behaviour of the prisoners; but such further orders are never enforced

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

forced until they have first been approved by the lord mayor or court of aldermen or sheriffs, to whom an appeal lies against any improper decision of the court of steward and assistants. The principal orders at present in force are:against profaners of the Sabbath and negiecters of divine service; for chusing stewards, assistants, chapel warden, reader, scavenger, and secretary, and to declare the duty of each, and for settling their several salaries; that is to say, twenty-one pence 'weekly .to the steward, three-pence weekly to each of the assistants, &c. &c.; but which salaries, and the quarterly and partial division of money, seems to militate against the -benevolent, intention of the donors, and a grievance to some of the poor prisoners who are deprived of many of their benefits if they fail in the payment of seven-pence per week, which might be remedied by allowing a certain weekly sum to the amount of (and to be repaid by) the annual amount of the donations, whereby the prisoners would be equally relieved, and animosities prevented, on account of seeking trifling benefits to some, by the privation of their fellow-sufferers; an order to deprive offenders of their votes; against slandering or using opprobrious words; against stealing; against cursing and swearing; against drunkenness; against singing and ranting; against abusing strangers; against retailing spirituous liquors; against keeping dogs; to enforce cleanliness, &c. &c.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 2..

The mode directed by the foregoing Rules and Orders to enforce obedience thereto is by corporal punishment; by putting in the stocks; by fining or by privations, which, in some cases, is peremptory, and in others, at the discretion of the before-mentioned court. But fines and privations are the only punishments at present.

If a fund could be established from the overplus of the charitable donations (after supplying the prison with coals, and other necessaries, ' thereoutJ; for the purpose of rewarding such persons as should have demeaned themselves soberly, quietly, and industriously, or endeavoured to improve the morals and behaviour of their fellow-prisoners, it might (in addition to the punishments attending the contrary) be conducive of much good. As also could a line be drawn between the unfortunate Debtor and the Swindler, by establishing some tribunal, to which the injured Creditor might apply, and the Debtor be heard in justification; and if the Swindlers were confined apart from the Unfortunate, to whom only benefits should be granted, it would much relieve the latter, and take away the disgrace frequently attached to confinement in a prison, and at the same time be a further protection to trade, by adding to the punishment of the Swindlers, or Fraudulent Debtors, who might nevertheless be amended by the hope of removal from the Swindlers’ Ward, upon their own good behaviour there, and industry, in any means, for obtaining an honest livelihood in future.

£02 account op the various prisons

Lynn regis; Norfolk.

Gaoler, William Hawes; Salary 35/.

Fees. None.

Garnish. None.

Surgeon* Mr. Thomas XlpwooL

Salary, I05/. for the Gaol and Poor of the parish *

Number of Debtors

1 Boo, March 27, 1802, Jan. 28,

Allowance* None.

3

REMARKS *

Only one court-yard, 82 feet by 15, for debtors^ felons, and all descriptions of prisoners. No firing allowed. No free wards. If a debtor has a bed to himself, he pays 2J. if two lie together, is. %d. per Week each. No emplo3rment found by the County, -Debtors’ day-room 16 feet by iz;

IN ENGLAND AND WALES *

m

MACCLESFIELD; Cheshire,

Gaoler, Maurice Jones.

Salary, none; he pays rent of i6L

Fees, 7j. 6i.

Garnish, 2J. 6A

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 17, ...• i

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

This prison is for the liberty of the hundred, -manor, and forest, of Macclesfield. A Court-yard 8 yards by 6. Two rooms on the ground-floor, -three yards and a half square; and two above* two-yards square. No bedding or straw allowed. The keeper furnishes the debtor with a day-room, si bedchamber and fire, for 3J. 6d. per week each. Under the gaol is a dungeon down seven steps, (11 feet by 9,) lighted by a window six inches square, ' where deserters are confined.

204 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

MAIDSTONE; Kent.

Gaoler, "Thomas Watson. Salary, 300/,

•Fees, i2r. ioi.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. John Lloyd.

Duty, every other Sunday, prayers.

Salary, 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Coleman.

Salary, 50'/. for Gaol and Bridewell.

/ 1800, March 27, ... 19 Number of Debtors { 1801, Sept. 22, ... 30

V1802, Jan. 31, .... 40

Allowance. A half-quartern loaf every other day, and one quart of small beer daily. But when a debtor has obtained his six-pences, he has no allowance of bread.

REMARKS.

For men debtors there are two Court-yards, the upper one paved with flag stones 43 feet by 38, the lower one (in which is the necessary,) not paved, size 96 feet by 48. They have likewise a common day-room 26 feet by 19. There is only one room for women debtors 13 feet by 10. No court-yard.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 205

On the first floor there are eight spacious rooms for debtors, which open into a lobby six feet two inches wide. Master’s side debtors pay is. ad. per week; those who have a room to themselves pay as. 6d. pej' week; and there is one handsomely furnished^ for which the prisoner paid $s. per week. For Common-side debtors there are two rooms, 26 feet by 19 each, called the Penniless-wards. Nine Prisoners, who each paid one penny per week, were confined there at mv visit, Sept. 22, 1801.

The Keeper is a very humane man, and the Debtors’ rooms, stair-cases, and lobby, cleaner than any I have yet visited.

It is much to be regretted, that some precise orders are not given for the conduct of the debtors in this prison; their irregularities frequently set the Keeper at defiance, and embarrass him, for want of knowing how to treat them.

i

P

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

So)

MARSHALSEA, Southwark, London.

Sir James Bland Burges, Knight Marshal,

Substitute, Mr. John Evans.

Salary, 6c/.

Fees; ioj. 10d. See the Table.

Garnish, is. 4d.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Trollope.

Duty, every Sunday.

Salary, 50/. and i, r. from every prisoner on dis-. charge. See Table.

Surgeons, Mess. Saumarez and Dixon.

Salary, One Shilling from each Prisoner on discharge..See Table.

Number of Debtors (1800’ Apn! 15, '''-5°

(. 1802, Dec. 2, .... 34

REMARKS.

To this prison of the Court of the Marshalsea, and of the King’s Palace Court of Westminster, are brought debtors arrested for the lowest sums any where within twelve miles of the Palace, except in the city of London.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 2O7

It is under the particular custody of the Substitute, who has his appointment from the Knight Marshal of the King’s Houshold for the time being.

This prison is held, under lease, by Mr. Crack-low, a Surveyor. One half of it is fallen down in ruins, and the remainder in a most insecure and deplorable state.

The court-yard is spacious, and contains near fifty rooms, six of which only are for the Common-side debtors *. There are two or three rooms for women; but as there is only one court-yard, men and women mix together in the day-time. No Infirmary. There is a tap in the prison, which is generally let to a prisoner. The Court is well supplied with water.

In December, 1801, there were 34 prisoners, wh-o had with them eight wives and seven children in the prison.

The average number, about twenty-five years ago, was 200, as appears by the books; but, since the act of the 19th George III. cap. LXX. has been reduced to 50.

* If more debtors are on the Common-side than six rooms will contain at three in a room, other rooms are allowed from the Master’s side. No pirates have been committed to this prison since the jeariyS^ but several persons have been, and are, committed in execution, under sentence of Courts Martial, to suffer imprisonment for a limited time:they are committed by the Lords of the Admiralty, pursuant to the st ntenee. Of this description there were Four at my visit, December 180 r. The whole building is in a most ruinous and insecure state, and the habitations t>f the debtors wretched in the extreme.

P 2

Mr

20S

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

Mr. Henry Allnott, who was many years since a prisoner here, had, during his confinement, a large estate bequeathed to him. lie learned sympathy by his sufferings, and left 100/. a year for discharging-poor debtors from hence; the payment, or composition, of whose debts do not exceed 4/. As he bound his manor of Goring, in Oxfordshire, for charitable uses, this is called The Oxford charity.” The present Trustees (December, 1801,) are, Henry Harding, Esq. of Abingdon; and Mr. John Bowles.

A List of Charities belonging to the Common

O D

side of the Marshalsea Prison.

Cot.iCy Money, 1 5?. per quarter (by the 43d Elizabeth, Chap.n. Sec. 15.)

Leathersellers’ Company, Bread and Money quarterly, 65. 2d.

Sir Thomas Gresham's Legacy, 10/. per ann. paid quarterly by the Chamberlain of London.

Drapers’ Company, Legacy of Mr. John Stokes, sixty penny loaves on the 5th of December.

The Gift of the late Chief Baron Smyth, fifteen stone of beef at Christmas, and continued by Lady Smyth.

Mr. John Mark’s Annuity, the interest of 21/. i8j. 10d. South Sea Stock.

Mr. Ralph Carter’s T.cgacy, ninety-six pounds of beef at Christmas, paid one year by the Churchwardens of Allhallows, and the other by St. Andrew's Undcrshaft.

Ironmongers’ Company send nine stone and two pounds of beef, and fwe dozen of bread on the 5th of November, the annual Gift of Mrs. Deane, deceased.

Mr.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 209

Mr. John Craythorne’s Legacy, 15.9. paid by the Company of Cutlers, at Christmas.

Mr. Thomas Dawson’s Legacy, 9.9. paid by the Church wardens of St. Ethelburg, at Christmas.

Mr. Robert Rampston’s Legacy, ics. every Christmas.

Archbishop of Canterbury sends yearly, at Christmas, 1/.

Mr. Ktlsall sends a Chaldron of Coals yearly, at Christmas.

Mrs. Smyth’s Legacy, 35. 4tl. paid by the Fishmongers' Company at Christmas.

Salters’ Company send yearly 6s. Sd.

Mr. Thomas Carter’s Legacy, a quarter of beef and a peck of oatmeal at Lady-day, paid by the Churchwardens of St. Dunstati in the East.

Eleanor Gwinn’s Legacy, sixty-five penny loaves every eight weeks.

William Roper, Esq.’s Legacy, il. per ann. paid by the Company of Parish Clerks.

Mr. Jacob's Legacy, il at Easter, paid at the Grainge-Inn, Lincoln s-Inn backgate, left in 1609.

A Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler or Keeper of the Marshalsea Prison, on any Civil Action. Settled the 17th day of May, 1765, pursuant to an Act for Relief of Debtors.

£• s cL

To the Knight Marshal, upon the discharge of every

prisoner charged with one or more actions, o 1 S

To the Keeper, for his care and safe custody of every prisoner, upon the discharge of such prisoner, on the first action, ...... 048

To the Keeper, upon the discharge of such prisoner

charged with one or more actions after the first, 038

P 3 To

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

To the Surgeon or Apothecary, on discharge of every

prisoner, charged with one 01 more actions, o

To the Chaplain, on the like discharge, . o

s- <1

I o I o

To the Turnkey, upon the discharge of every prisoner, on the hrst action, ...... o i 6

To the Turnkey, upon the discharge of every prisoner charged with one or more actions after the ^rst, ...... o i o

To the Clerk, for entering the discharge of a prisoner,

on one or more actions, ...... o

o

To the Keeper, for the use of a bed, bedding, and sheets, for every Prisoner, if found by the Gaoler at the Prisoner’s request, for the first

night, on the Master’s side of the said Prison, o 0-5

And every night after the first night, .......o o g

And if two lie in a bed, 2d. each, .........° 0

No other Fee for the use of chambers, bed, bedding, or upon the discharge or commitment of any prisoner on any.Civil Action.

W. Richardson. Elliot Bishop. Leonard Howard.

Mansfield. E. Pratt.

T. Parker.

jV. B. Any Common-side debtor who docs not attend Divine Service, unless prevented by illness, is subject to a penalty.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 211

MONMOUTH.

Gaoler, 'Thomas Phillips; Salary 105/.

Fees, none; but the Under Sheriff demands ioj. 6J. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. John Pozvell.

Duty, every Wednesday and Sunday.

Salary, 3 zl.

Surgeon, Mr. Wm. Powell. Salary, 20/.

Number of Debtors, 1801, Nov. 11, .... 7

Allowance. To debtors, who are paupers, one pound and half of bread per day, and one shilling per week.

REMARKS.

One court-yard, 57 feet by 45, and one day-room 20 feet by 19 feet; five rooms for common-side debtors, who are allowed a wood bed-stead, a straw and sacking bed, a pair of sheets, a blanket, and a rug. Master’s side debtors have one large room, and each pays 2s. 6d. per week for a bed. Debtors are obliged to attend divine service. The County likewise allows firing to all parts of the prison, when used with discretion. All the prisoners receive, from a ’egacy of Mr. Gabriel, a sixpenny loaf every q larter-day.

v 4

212 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

MONTGOMERY.

Gaoler, John Davies; Salary, 35/.

Fees, 8r. 4d.; besides which the Under Sheriff demands 5s. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Charles Williams.

Duty; every Sunday, prayers and sermon. Salary, 20/.

Surgeon, Mr. Stephens, (for felons only.)* Salary, Si.

Number of Debtors,

f 1800, April 5, 11802, Jan. 30,

• 5.6

Allowance. Sixpence per day.

REMARKS.

One Court-yard for men and women debtors, size feet by 32. One day-room 14 feet square. The County allows no bedding. Straw on the floor. Attendance on divine service is optional. No firing allowed.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 213

MORPETH; Northumberland,

Gaoler, John Blake; Salary 80/.

Fees, 125. 6d. besides which the Under Sheriff demands a fee of 2s. 6d. upon each liberate; and if upon a supersedeas, 6s, 8d.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Edward Nicholson,

Duty, Sunday afternoon; Salary 40/.

Surgeon, Mr. Douglas Sands; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 1, .......8

Allowance. Four pence per day.

REMARKS.

Two spacious court-yards, a day-room 23 feet by 16. One free ward 24 feet by 22, with bedsteads, comfortable bedding, chair, tables, &c. Master-side debtors pay for a single bed <zs. per week; if two lie in a bed, u. each.

214 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE.

Gaoler, John Gale; Salary, 100L Fees, 14J. qd.

Garnish. None.

Chaplains, Rev. Mr. Aloises, and Rev. Mr. Perkins.

Duty, alternate months, prayers on Wednesday and Friday every week, and a Sermon in each month.

Salary, 10l. per annum each.

Surgeon, Mr. William Fife.

Salary, none, makes a bill, which is allowed by the magistrates in sessions.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb, 7, .... 13

Allowance. Two-pence per day on petition to the mayor.

REMARKS.

The prison, which has been a fortified gateway, has no yard for debtors: there are two places on the flat roof, which they have access to at all times from morning till night; one covered with lead is near 40 feet square, the other which is flagged is 3 j. feet by 2; . There is no distinction of debtors.

The

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 215

The county allows a bedstead (iron), a hed-tick which, is filled with new chaff every six-months, one under blanket, two upper blankets, and two coverhts, which are scoured every three months. There are eight lodging-rooms, and every one sleeps single if the prison will admit it. '1 he debtors succeed to the best rooms by seniority of confinement; and every one is fined who does not attend divine service (except prevented by illness), or who does not profess himself of a different pei suasion. Their day-room is 27 feet by 21 feet. Debtors are allowed as much firing as they can consume without waste. There are rules to this prison, the same as the King’s Bench and Fleet, which extend South of the prison to a running water arched over called Execution Dock, and on the East of the prison down High Fryer Street, about 200 yards, to a rivulet called Lork Burn. As the keeper cannot find by what authority these rules were granted, no debtors are indulged in the use of them, but those of good character who are confined for small sums.

NEW GAOL. See SURREY COUNTY GAOLS

216 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

NEWGATE.

Gaoler, John Kirby; Salary 450/.

Fees; 8s. lod. out of which the keeper pays 2s. to the turnkeys, 4*. 10d. to the Sheriff’s office for the Red Seal, though Messrs. Burchell, the present humane deputy sheriffs, generally remit this fee, if the keeper recommends the debtor as poor.

Garnish; on the masters, or cabbin-side, 13J. 6d. on the common-side 9s. 6d. out of which several sums, is. 6d. is spent in beer, the remainder is paid to the steward of the ward, and laid out in the purchase of coals, candles, wood, mops, brooms, and pails; those who from their poverty cannot pay the above-mentioned sums, wash and clean the wards.

Chaplain, Rev. Doctor Foyde.

Salary, 200/. and a house adjoining to the gaol.

5/. per annum from Guildhall.

10l. per annum from St. Bartholomew’s hospital.

and 50/. over and above the 215/. was last year (1801) presented to him by the court of aldermen.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 217

Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Sunday morning, and prayers in the afternoon. Prayers every Wednesday and Friday morning, and private prayers Tuesday and Thursday with those under sentence of death. After the report, he attends those who are to suffer twice a day, and on the morning of execution.

Surgeon, Mr. William Box, jun. who visits the prison daily. Salary, 100/. and medicines paid for by the City.

.Number of Debtors, 1802, March 13, .. 210

Allowance. To every debtor ten ounces of the best wheaten bread in loaves of twenty ounces each, and one pound and half of potatoes. The debtors on the poor and women's side have eight stone of beef weekly, without bone, such as clods and stickings, which is paid for by the Sheriffs.

There are also sundry donations to the poor and women-side debtors, paid at different periods, and equally divided among them. viz,

£. s. d.

Lady-day quarter.......16 2 2

Midsummer quarter........418 8

Michaelmas quarter.......6 15 4

Christmas quarter.......23 14 10

Total 51 11 o

Leather-

* i8

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

Leathersellers’ Company, eight dozen penny-loaves quarterly.

Armourers’ and Braziers’ Company, five dozen penny loaves half-yearly.

The Gift of Mrs. Margaret Deane, paid by the Ironmongers’ Company, annually, on the 5th of November, eighteen stone six pounds of beef, and five dozen penny loaves.

The Parish of St. Dunstan in the East, twenty stone of beef, and one peck of oatmeal, annually, on Christmas Eve.

The Parish of Allhallows, Lombard-street, annually, 17 s.

The Parish of St. Andrew, Undershaft, annually, 1 ys.

Mrs. Misson, the interest of aco/. stock, to be laid out in Coals or Provisions, annually, 61.

Mrs. Margaret Symcott, every eight weeks, sixty-five penny loaves.

Mrs. Sambach, 1/. at Lady-day, paid by the Churchwardens of St. Bride’s, provided none can -be discharged out of Ludgate for four pounds.

Mr. Thomas Stretchley every three years, 1!. paid by Christ’s-hospital.

The

IN ENGLAND AND WALES,

2

The following document is a list of what are called “ Court of Conscience Debtors of the times of their commitment to Newgate; and of the charges accumulated for costs upon very inconsiderable demands. Reverence for existing law precludes from saying more than,

---- “ Pity it is, his true !”

Date of Warrants. Defendants Names. Debts. Costs.

1797•

February 7.. John Allen s. 3 d. 5 s... 8 d. 8

May 11.. 'William. Gough.. 3 10 . ..8 TO

October 15.. Thomas Blackburn.. 2 ..6 IO

Ditto 1 5 ..6 IO

December 14.. Ann Jones 2 3 ..8 IO

CO

April 12.. Charles Burnet .... 3 10 . *.8 IO

September 20.. Thomas Blackburn.. 2 6 . ..8 10

November 9.. Elizabeth Irvine.. 3 9 ..8 3

1799 *

August 15.. Caleb Only 3 9 ..8 10

22.. Thomas Dobson i, . 1 0 . ..8 10

September 1.. John Hyder 3 10 . ..8 8

October 1.. Susannah Evans.. 2 2 . ..8 8

17.. William Owen .... 3 0 . ..8 8

1800.

March 13.. Abraham Slater .... 3 4 ..6 TO

July 24.. John Jones 3 0 . ..6 IO

REMARKS

* 20

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

REMARKS.

The part appropriated for the debtors is about three quarters of the North-West angle of the prison, and consists of 14 wards about 23 feet by 15 feet 6, and eleven feet high, for the men; and two wards for the women, one 36 feet by 15, the other iS feet by is- No bedsteads or bedding provided by the City, but those who are the most distressed have frequently a rug allowed. The area for the men is 49 feet 6 by 31”feet 6; it is well supplied with water. The area for the women is 49 feet 6 by 15 feet 9, and is likewise well supplied with water. Men and women debtors are separated by a brick wall 15 feet high. The greatest number of debtors confined in this prison at one time has been 285 men and 40 women. No employment is provided for any; but shoemakers, taylors, or other handicraft trades, are allowed to work in their rooms, if they can procure it.

From the frequency of my visits to this prison, I have often witnessed the very distressful state of cloathing and filth of the females, particularly the convicts crowded like sheep in a pen in a few rooms, that it was a matter of surprize to me, there were so few on the sick list, or that the gaol fever did not prevail. I am persuaded it must in a great measure be attributed to the humanity and provident care of the present keeper Mr. Kirby, who frequently at his own expence administers to their many necessities.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 221

skies. One half the prisoners, particularly the women, are miserably poor and covered (scarcely covered) with rags. A small sum should be appropriated for this purpose, and for a change of dress. It is with difficulty that debtors in any prison can be kept in a state of cleanliness. There are no established rules and orders for the good government of this gaol:the whole seems to rest with the keeper; and surely confidence was never better placed.

There are two rooms set apart for the sick felons male and female, but none for the debtors, who must necessarily be in the felons infirmary. Upon this subject I had a conference with that truly-phi-lanthropic character Dr. Lettsom, who humanely attended me twice there, visited the sick, and examined every part of the prison, and gave it as his opinion, that another infirmary or convalescent room was absolutely necessary, and might be built at a small expence, and'be perfectly secure. The chapel is plain and neat, the prisoners silent and attentive, no noise in the court-yard, or devotion interrupted by opening and shutting the chapel-door during divine service, as in the King's Bench.

There were in Newgate at passing the Insolvent Bill,

Debtors, Discharged, Left,

in 1794, 209, in July 78, I3D

in 1797, 182, in Sept. 45, 13 7 5

in 1801, 273> in Sept. 143, I3°* '

Q

tbl ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

v

NEWPORT, in the Isle of Wight.

Gaoler, James Reynolds, who is likewise a Serjeant at Mace.

Salary 40/.

Fees. None.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. IVatersworth.

Number of Debtors, March 18, 1802, ...1

REMARKS.

o

Debtors are confined in this Gaol by a process Issuing out of the Borough Court; and have an allowance of sixpence per day after three court-days, which are generally held in a fortnight. No courtyard. One sitting-room, 14 feet by 8; and one lodging-room the same size, with a bed furnished by the Keeper, for the use of which the Debtor pays 6d. per night. This Gaol is also the County Bridewell.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 223

NORTHAMPTON, County-Goal.

Gaoler. J. Wright.

Salary, 170/. for Gaol and Bridewell.

Fees, 131. 4d.

Garnish, 2 s. 6d. by authority of the magistrates.

Chaplain, Rev. Edward Miller.

Duty, Prayers twice a week, and a Sermon every Sunday.

Salary, 40/.

Surgeon, 'Hir. Hardin \ Salary, 26/.

, . fi8oi, August 8,

Number of Debtors) 0 r

L1002, Jan. 31,

Allowance to Debtors, none whatever.

10

10

REMARKS.

One court-yard for men and women debtors, 17 yards by 14. Three bedrooms, 23 feet by 14; and a smaller room for women. Common-side debtors have straw-beds, a sheet, and a rug.

Master’s side debtors pay for a room and bed per week.

All Prisoners must attend Divine Service, unless prevented by illness.

Q 2

N 6

tk2\ ACCOUNT op the Tarious prisons

No work furnished by the County now. In some of the rooms I saw work in the looms half finished $ the expence exceeding the profits caused the County to discontinue it.

N.B. For the beneficial effects of employment in prisons; see Dorchester, page 98, and Gloucester, page 140.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 225

NORTHAMPTON, Tozvn Gaol

Gaoler, Robert Roberts (who is likewise a Sheriff's Officer.)

Salary, 10/.

Fees; \os. 6d. on commitment; 131. 4(L on discharge.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. John Stoddart; performs divinQ service occasionally, without a stipend.

Surgeon, Mr. Blissard; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 15, ...., Q

Allowance. None,

REMARKS,

No court-yard; only one room, 6 yards by 5, with the necessary in one corner. No water; no employment. The Town allows to poor debtors a bedstead and straw. Master’s-side debtors pay 25, fer week each for a bed,

Debtors are obliged to attend divine service, Np firing allowed by the town,

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

NORWICH CASTLE; Norfolk.

Gaoler, John Johnson; Salary, 140/.

Fees. None.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Hansell.

Duty, Sermon on Sunday; Prayers Tuesday and Friday.

Salary, 5c/.

Surgeon, Mr. Digby; Salary, 40/.

Number of Debtors j1'00’ ' 3°

(_ 1002, Jan. 27, .... 10

Allowance. One pound and a half of bread per day; and half a pound of cheese per week to each. Two bushels of coals to each fire every week during the six winter months, and one bushel per week the rest of the year.

REMARKS.

The debtors have three court-yards; that for the men, on the Master’s side, is 37 feet by 26. No day-room. Women debtors, on the Master’s side, have a court-yard, 17 feet by 7; and a day-room, 13 feet by 9. Common-side debtors, men and

women.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES, 227

women, mix promiscuously together, having only one court-yard, 24 feet by 15; and one day-room, 14 feet by 12,

Each Common-side debtor has a bedstead, two bed-mats, and two blankets, allowed jby the County? the windows of their sleeping-rooms are glazed.

Master’s side debtors, if they have a single bed5 pay is. per week; if two lie together, is. 6d. each.

All the prisoners are required to attend divine service.

q a

223 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

NORWICH, City-Gaol

Gaoler, Edzvard Sharpe -3 Salary, 6oI.

Fees, 6s. Sd.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Millard.

Duty, Sunday.

Salary, 30/.

Surgeon, Mr. James Keymer; Salary, Si. 8s.

1800, March 28, .. Jan. 28, ..

Number of Debtors

r1800, 1 1802,

. 6

• 7

Allowance Twenty ounces of bread daily, two cha.dron of coals per annum; and some other occasional allowances from the Corporation.

REMARKS.

A court-yard 90 feet by 43'. Fourteen rooms of various sizes for debtors. One a free ward, to which straw is allowed. Master’s side debtors pay from two to four shillings per week, for a room to themselves: double-bedded rooms is. 6d. each bed, and if twodie together xr. each per week.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 229

NOTTINGHAM, County Gaol.

Gaoler, John Holt; Salary, 120/.

Fees, 14*. 8 c/,

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. William Gill.

Duty, Prayers every Wednesday, and Sermon every Sunday, in a small room. The prisoners are required to attend.

Salary, 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Partridge; Salary, 30/.

r 1800, March 29, i.. 7

Number of Debtors < 0 T o o

t1802, Jan. ab, .... b

t

Allowance. Sixteen ounces of bread -per day, and one shilling per week in coals, amongst them.

REMARKS.

The debtors have only one common court-yard for men and women, size 30 yards by 14; a day-room 5 yards by 4. Master-side debtors, if one has a bed to himself, pay three shillings; and if two in a bed, two shillings per week each. Common-side debtors have two free wards, but no bedding; or

J O

straw provided by the County. And there is no employment furnished by the bounty.

2-30 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

NOTTINGHAM, Town-Gaol,

Gaoler, Richard Bonnington Salary, 3a/.

Fees, 14.J. 8c/. besides which the Under Sheriff demands 4*. for his liberate,

Garnish. None,

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. Basnet;

Salary, None; makes a bill.

r 1800, March ao, .. 5

Number of Debtors < x 0 *

1002, Jan. 28, .... 6

Allowance. Fourteen ounces of bread per day each, and one shilling -per week for coals, amongst them.

REMARKS.

One court-yard for men and women debtors, size 75 feet by 45. No day-room. The master’s side debtors pay is. per week, and two lie in a bed. Two rooms for common-side debtors, who pay 6d. per week if they find their own bed. The Town allows straw.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

* 3 *

OAKHAM; Rutlandshire.

Gaoler, William Sewell; Salary, 50/.

Fees, 14.J. 10d. besides which the Under Sheriff demands a fee of gs. id, for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Richard Williams; who attends prisoners under sentence of death only, for which he receives a gratuity from the Treasurers of the County.

Surgeon, Mr. William Keal; Salary, 5/.

r 1800, April 22, .... 3

Number of Debtors< 0 t 0

f1802, Jan. 28, .... 5

Allowance. A quartern and half loaf per week, each.

REMARKS.

One court-yard only, for men and women debtors, size 16 yards by 3 yards. A day-room 5 yards square. Master’s side debtors pay is. 4d. per week for a single bed, and if two lie together is. 6d. each* One free-ward for common-side debtors, to whom the County allows a mat and two blankets, but no firing.

2J2

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

OUSEBRIDGE; York.

Gaoler, Richard Megge, son. Salary, 95/. '

Fees, 6s. 8d.; besides which the Under Sheriff demands js. 4d. for his liberate.

Garnish, is.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeons, Messrs. Champney and Lake.

Salary, 1 o /.

Number of Debtorsf I^00’ March 31, 5

L1802, Feb. 1, .... 8

Allowance. Sixpenny worth of bread per week, amongst the whole number, great or small, being the gift of Mr. William Edmondson, One guinea, and one chaldron of coals, every Christmas; and the sum of three pounds four shillings yearly.

REMARKS.

No court-yard. One day-room 11 feet by 8. The wards are all free. No bedding or straw allowed.

IN ENGLAND AND \tfALES.

OXFORD, Castle-Gaol.

Gaoler, Daniel Harris.

Salary, 105/. and a gratuity annually from the Magistrates.

Fees, 91. 2d. besides which the Under Sheriff demands a fee of 31. 6d. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Richard Graham.

Duty, Sunday, and two days in the week if required.

Salary, 42/.

Surgeon, Mr. Rawlins; Salary, 30/. 51.

___ f 1800, April 2Q, ... 17

Number of Debtors) Q T *

t. 1801, Jan. 30, .... 10

Allowance. None from the city. See Remarks.

REMARKS.

This gaol is in a state of improvement. A court-yard 70 feet by 50 feet. A day-room 16 feet by 12 feet. No distinction of debtors, no room rent, every one finds his own bed. No

firing

234 account of the various prisons

iiring allowed. Debtors have in common six pounds of mutton every Saturday, sent by Christchurch College, and likewise their portion of i/. 131. per month, divided amongst prisoners of both sorts; and often occasionally their portion of bread, broth, and dinners, sent by the different colleges.

XN ENGLAND AND WALES,

* 3S

OXFORD, City GaoU

Gaoler, Thomas Wharton.

Salary, 30/.

Fees, 9/. id.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Pensoth Duty, Sunday.

Salary, 10/. ioj.

Surgeon, Mr. Rawlins; makes a Bill.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 3, .... o

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

The Debtors confined here are by writs issuing from the City Court. There are two court-yards, 54 feet by 39 each; and two day-rooms, 14 feet by 17. Common-side debtors are furnished by the Corporation with mats and blankets. Master’s side pay u. 6d. each for a bed per week. No firing allowed.

236 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

PENZANCE; Cornwall.

Gaoler, Humphrey Hr Ugem an.

Salary, none; lie pays rent, 7/. 7s.

Fees, 8/. 4A. every action.

Chaplain. None.

Number of Debtors, 1801, Dec. 27, .... o Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

Th is wretched prison, in the Hundred of Penwith, is in the back-yard of a public-house, about 12 feet square. One iron-barred window; and a small necessary in one corner. No fire-place; earth-floor, very damp. No court-yard. It belongs to Lord Arundel, whose hog-stye, the keeper says, is a palace to it.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

* 37

PETERBOROUGH; Northamptonshire.

Gaoler, William Millwood, who is likewise a Sheriff’s Officer.

J

Salary, 30/.

Fees, 1 Si. as per table.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. Beet ham (for felons only).

Salary, none; makes a bill.

f 2800, March 28,

Number of Debtors) 0 t 0

I 1802, Jan. 28,

o

T

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

One court-yard only, for debtors, felons, and every description of offenders; size, 21 yards by 7; a day-room, 6-1- yards by 4]. Common-side

debtors are allowed a bedstead and straw. Master’s side debtors pay as per Table, hung up in the courtyard; viz. s. d.

Every person arrested and brought to prison, 6 8

Board per week, ...... So

Lodging per week, ...... 24

If the debtor finds a bed, lodging per week, 1 o

R

; S o

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

PLYMOUTH.

Gaolers, <Tbcr, \is P'aJam, John Parry, G. Pardon; who are likewise Serjeants at Mace.

Salary, i :J. per a/in. each.

Fees, 15r. 4d.

Garnish. None.

Charlain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. Seccombe, who attends at the work-^house; to which place the prisoner is removed, , when ill.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 15, .... o

Allowance. A three-penny loaf every day.

REMARKS.

No court-yard. No day-room. One large room with straw ticking beds, two blankets, and a rug, furnished by the Corporation. The old prison being in a very ruinous condition, it is taken down, and temporary rooms built at the Mayoralty-house for the purpose, till the Gaol is rebuilt.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 239

POOLE, Dorsetshire.

Gaoler, William Arney.

Salary, 85. per week.

Fees, 131. 4^.;

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Jan. 28, .....o

Allowance. Sixpence per clay.

REMARKS.

A'court-yard, 51 feet by 47; and a day-room, 11 feet by 9. Four rooms above-stairs, for which debtors pay one shilling per week each.

The County allows firing from November till May.

?«. 2

24° ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

PORTSMOUTH.

Gaoler, Georps Luscombe, who is likewise a scr —

J t ? y

jeant at mace.

Salary, So/.

Fees, gs. 6d.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. Mr. Marshall, who is surgeon to the parish, attends when one is wanted.

Number of Debtors

1800, March 30, 1802, March 17,

• 5

• 5

Allowance. To those debtors who are paupers, sixpence -per day and coals.

REMARKS.

This wretched gaol has but one small court-yard, 15 yards by 5, for all descriptions of prisoners, so that, on my visit the 17th March 1802, I found the five debtors (four of whom were women), twenty felons, and twelve commuted for misdemeanors, all promiscuously mixed together. The women debtors' day-room is 17 feet by 9 feet 6; and their sleeping-room, which is upstairs and adjoining to the female felons, is about 12 feet square. The Corporation allows to poor debtors a hammock with a straw

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

2‘I1

sacking-bed, and a rug to each. In the house there are five rooms with beds furnished by the keeper, for the use of which each debtor pays 4^. per night. Vv hen a debtor becomes entitled to his six-pences from the plaintiff, in case the payment of them is omitted, he is discharged the next court-day without expence. The court is held every Tuesday. Of the above five debtors, the four women were committed for selling beer without a licence, and, being unable to pay the fine, stand but little chance of ever being liberated, there being no determinate period of imprisonment for a debt due to the crown, and they are always excluded from taking the benefit of an act of insolvency. In my journeys through the various counties, I have met with many who had been impri- soned for years, seemingly forgot: one poor woman, Ann Fisher, has been in the gaol of, Exeter near eleven years, by an attachment out of the Court of Chancery. And what makes their pitiable case the worse is, that (under these circumstances) they have no allowance whatever.

* 3

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

POULTRY COMPTER; London.

Gaoler, John "Teague; Salary, 105/.

Fees, 9s. master’s side debtors; 8r common-side.

Garnish, 4/. 3d. it is called ward-dues for coals and candles.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Davis.

Duty, every Sunday.

Sidary, 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Hodgson.

Salary, 80/. for the two Compters and Ludgate.

_ _____ (1800, April 21, ... 52

Number of Debtors ] 0 -p* r

(1001, Dec. 3, .... 36

Allowance. Ten ounces of bread per day each; and five pounds of potatoes, one pound of salt cod, and eight ounces of rice, per week each; and six stone of beef divided amongst them every Saturday, besides a collection of broken victuals from the different taverns and erting - houses about the Exchange. There are legacies to the debtors paid by the City Companies amounting to about 60/. a year, which is distributed among the poor debtors once a quarter.

REMARKS.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

M3

REMARKS.

For master's side debtors here are fifteen rooms between the inner and the enter mites. Fot com-

-siv !e del St O' S S! '•:w. ..A - v 1 ’' 1 1 iV> inner rr-M-p m l-5

of them on the r»rn i'IP 'O I A d v. < *0 - it L A t; Ws O

/ *? ! (! )cc 0 O t O Of.) n i»- a.• bca^1 c' .lit of b‘oi'3;

t 1.1 the Pr hu e .f Wat -a cinl it ckbto io- 1 d b; ve

: w reeds are the I did ]!r 1‘ dr r:, in it were

md

debtors, and the V'umt'Ks Waul none. Above them the Upper Ward, io debtors; and lie Jezvs Ward, two Jew debtors "A The 36 debtors had 11 wives and 17 children living with them in the prison. They are allowed rugs by the cuy, bet must find their own beds. Near the middle ward, on the same floor, are two dose rooms for the sick. In each ward is a fire-place. In one of dm rooms on. the second floor (called the Pump Room; , the

r~r

debtors have the convenience of water. ii; e rooms were out of repair, but the debtors kept their floors clean. The court is very small, and paved with flag-stones. To give the debtors and felons air, they are taken alternately upon the leaded roof. On one side of the court is the chattel, with a gallery for master's side debtors; it has lately undergone a repair, is white-washed, and has new books:every debtor is obliged to attend divine service unless

It is the only prison I ever visited where those people have had the generous and just indulgence of being kept separate.

244 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

prevented by illness. All the other parts of this close and crowded prison are in so ruinous and insecure a state, that, if it was not shored up in many places, it would tumble down. The keeper pays window-tax.

There is painted on a board at the door, u No visitors admitted on Sundays from io to 12 in the

j

morning, nor from 2 to in the afternoon.

The public house in the passage is kept by a sheriff’s officer, who rents it from the city, at 30l. per annum. It has nothing to do with the prison.

An Account of Fees taken by the keeper of the

Poultry Compter.

L. s. cl.

Master's side debtors pay on coming in $$. to the

Keeper, and 2s. to the Turnkeys, ....070 Common-side Debtors pay nothing coming in.

Common-side Debtors pay on Discharge 20s. 8d. which is disposed of as follows: to the Keeper 75. at the Sheriff’s Office Poultry 35. 8d. at the Sheriff’s Office in Giltspur Street is. at Secondaries Office Lothbury 6s. to the Turnkeys 25. and Messenger 15 ...... 108

Master's aide Debtors pay on Discharge 1 s. more than

Common-side Debtors, . .... 1 r 8

Master’s side Debtors pay for the use of a l oom, bed,

bedding, sheets, 25. 6d. per week, ..026

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 245

PRESTEIGN; Radnorshire, South-Wales.

Gaoler, Robert Lewis; Salary, 20I.

Fees, 61. Sd.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Smith.

Duty, once or twice a week, as required.

Salary, 1 o /.

Surgeon, Mr. Cooksey.

Salary, loh and makes a Rill.

Number of Debtors, 1801, Nov. 14, .... 5

REMARKS.

Only one court-yard for men and women debtors and felons, and all description of prisoners. Several rooms for debtors about 12 feet square; common-side debtors have a free ward. The County provides straw, but no bedding. Master’s side debtors pay for a single bed is. 6d. 'per week, and if two lie together it. each.

READING; Berkshire.

Gaoler, George Knight.

Salary, 200/. lor gaol, and county bridewell.

j 1 O ' v

Fees, none; but the Under Sheriff demands 31. 6d. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Hodgkin sen.

Duty, every Sunday and Wednesday.

Salary, r.o/.

J J v/

Surgeon, Mr. Bulky.

Salary, 20/. for gaol and bridewell.

J J O

Allowance. Ten ounces of bread, half a pound of rice, or two pound of potatoes, to each debtor, daily, on proof of his being a pauper, and willing to work.

This gaol, as well as the Bridewell, is inclosed by a brick wall 25 feet high, with a small cheveux de frise upon wooden rollers about four feet from the coping. The men debtors have two court-yards, that to the

j 7

front 23 yards by 19, with arcades: back yard

Number of Debtors

* REMARKS.

20 feet

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 247

28 feet by 9, with arcades. A day-room 8 yards by 4. The women debtors have a small garden about 14 yards square. Their sleeping-room 16 feet by 9. To each debtor the County allows a sacking-bottom bedstead, a chaff bed, a coarse sheet, blanket, and rug. All the prisoners are required to attend chapel. The court yards are flagged, well supplied with wafer, and I found the prison very clean. By an act of parliament...Richard II. cap. 10. (i The justices shall take for their wages four shillings “per day for the time of rheir sessions, and their “ clerk two shillings per day of the fines and amer- ciaments arising and coming of the same sessions “ by the funds of the sheriff’s.” The money arising from this act is humanely applied by the magistrates to purchase coals for the prisoners in the winter.

October 21st, 1801, Sessions, Ordered, that the visiting justices be requested to consider of the expediency of assisting any debtor in prosecuting for. his sixpences, and report to the quarter sessions.

248 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

READING, Town-Gaol.

Gaoler, Thomas Moore Davies, Serjeant at Mace..Salary, 9/.

Fees. None.

Number of Debtors, 1801, Dec. 12, none.

Allowance. Sixpence a da), a sacking bedstead, flock bed, two blankets, and a rug.

REMARKS.

One room at a public house, no court-yard, no water.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 249

RICHMOND 5 Yorkshire.

Gaoler, Robert Wright. Salary, 5/.

Fees, 6s. 8d.

Garnish, is. 4d.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 13, .... 4

Allowance. One shilling per week to debtors certificated as paupers, by the County.

REMARKS.

Two courts, the outer 29 yards by 13; the inner 21 yards by 3. A day-room 5 yards square. Common-side debtors have a back room in the yard, for which they pay nothing, but find their own beds. Master’s side debtors pay is. 6d. per week each, but if they find their own beds is. The poorer class have a bed furnished for is. 6d. per week each; and all have the use of the gaoler’s fire.

2^0 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

RIPPON; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, Robert Braithwait; Salary, none.

Fees, i or. 6d.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 30, »... 1

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

Rippon liberty gaol is the property of the Archbishop, by a charter from king Edward the IVth. It includes 24 parishes. No free ward- Debtors pay 25. per week for a single bed, and if two lie together is. each.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 251

ROCHESTER.

Gaoler, Ethvard Wright.

Salary, 30/. as Serjeant at Mace; but none as Gaoler.

Fees. None.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. Thompson,

O ' i

Salary, none; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors {l8R°3’Nril21’--

e 1 bo 1, Sept. 20, .. Number of Felons, 1801, Sept. 20, ..

Allowance. Three Pence per clay.

1

o

3

REMARKS.

Two close offensive cells on the ground-floor, 15 feet by 5 feet 6 inches, with a bedstead in each. No necessary. No court-yard. No light or air, but what is admitted through the iron-grated door.

O O

No water. One room in the keeper’s house (10 feet by 9), for such debtors as can pay. The City is going to build a new Gaol,

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

ROTH WELL, near Leeds, Yorkshire.

Gaoler, William Garrett; who is also Chief Bailiff of the Honour of Pontefract.

Salary, none; pays a rent of 32/. a year.

Fees, Commitment, 9; . 4d. Discharge iBj. 4d.

Garnish, 6s. id.

Chaplain, none; the keeper reads prayers every Sunday.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors]" Ip°°’ I> "’31

I 1802, heb. ar, ....

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

This prison for Debtors belongs to the liberty of the Honour of Pontefract, in the Duchy Court of Lancaster; has one court-yard, 30 yards by 14; and twro day-rooms, one about 6 yards, the other about 5 yards square.

Common -side debtors have seven rooms; the beds and bedding furnished by the keeper, for which each pays ten pence half-penny per week.

Master’s side debtors have six rooms, the beds and bedding furnished by the keeper, each prisoner paying is. id. per week. No firing allowed.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

RUTHIN; Denbighshire.

Gaoler, Humphrey Jonest Salary, 57/.

Fees, none; but the Under Sheriff demands 3-5-. 6d. for his liberate.

Garnish, 2s. 6d.

Chaplain, Rev. Richard Jones,

Duty, every Sunday.

Salary, 30/.

Surgeon, Mr. Nichols. Salary, 30/.

, f 1800, March «i, ...c

IS umber of Debtors \ Q T

L 1002, Jan. 30, . v 4

Allowance. Three Shillings per week each, to paupers only:

REMARKS.

One court-yard for men and women debtors, 29 Jards by 14. A day-room, 14 yards by 6. All free wards, and only one person in a room. Every debtor must attend chapel, or forfeit his allowance.

254- ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

ST. ALBAN’S BOROUGH GAOL.

Gaoler, James Drayton. Salary, 20/.

Fees. None.

Garnish. None,

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, none; if one is wanted, he is ordered by the Mayor, and makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, 1801, August 15, ...o Felons, - 1

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

No court-yard. No water. Those debtors who can pay have very good lodging-rooms adjoining to the TownhaW, and sometimes the use of it to walk in.

V

Debtors from the Courts of Conscience are confined in two very dirty close offensive rooms below, with an iron-grating to the street. No fire-place. In these two rooms felons are ^lso confined.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES;

* 55

ST. ALBAN’S LIBERTY GAOL *

Gaoler, John Cooke. Salary* 40/.

Fees, 13J. /{d.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None *

Surgeon, ordered by (die Mayor when wanted.

Number of Debtors, 1801, August 15, ...o

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

debtors and Felons are kept separate. Three lodging-rooms. No court-yard. No proper separation of men and women debtors. No bedding, or even straw, allowed.

A

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISON

ST. BRIAVEL’S, m the Forest of Bean, Gloucestershire.

Gaoler, William Closs. Salary, none.

Fees. None.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None. '

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors, i8oc, Feb. i, .......I

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

A spacious court-yarck A day-room, 14 feet squared The County allows no bedding or even straw: every debtor pays one shilling 'per week for a b«d. No firing allowed.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 257

ST. PETER’S, York.

Gaoler, John Burnley. Salary, 10/.

Fees, 6s. 8d; besides which the Chief Bailiff demands a fee of 8s. 4cl. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 3, ......1

Allowance. None.

REMARKS.

No court-yard. FourA small rooms, about five feet by three feet and a half. The gaoler has two pounds eight shillings per ann. to furnish straw. If a debtor has a bed to himself, he pays six shillings per month.

s

3

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

SALISBURY; Fisherton Anger Gaol.

Gaoler, James Waight.

Salary, 15c/.; and for turnkeys, 5c/.

Fees, 1 /. the first action; 1 os. for every other action; and is. for the turnkey, for every action; besides which, the Under Sheriff demands 6s. 8d. for his liberate.

Garnish, 2s. master’s side; and is. the commonr side.

Chaplain, Rev. John Malham.

Doty, Prayers and a Sermon every Sunday.

Salary, 50/. of which lord Weymouth pays 20/. and the County 30/.

Surgeon, Mr. Robert Still. Salary, 21/.

_ (1800, June o, .... 1*7

Number of Debtors] c \

(1002, J^n. 1, ....12

Allowance. None whatever, not even straw to }ie upon, or fire to cock their provisions.

REMARKS.

On the outer gate towards the street, there is painted Pray remember the poor debtors box.”

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 259

The debtors court-yard, which is separated from that of the felons by a double iron pallisade placed at such a distance as to prevent their conversing with each other, is sufficiently large to admit of the debtors playing at tennis, lives, he. There is no day-room either for debtors or felons; but two might be very conveniently made where 'he cart-house and stables are built. Every debtor who lies in the sheriff’s ward pays per week 2.0 6d. though two lie in a bed. If any debtor has a 100m and bed to himself, he pays 5s. per week. Common-side debtors have only one room to eat and to sleep in, size 20 feet by 16, which had not been white-washed for six years, excessively dirty. Over this are two rooms, (to which you ascend by a stone stair-case from the court-yard,) set apart for infirmaries, equally dirty, and filled with lumber; in the smaller room women debtors are confined. The

k

Bishop sends every Christmas 40r. worth of meat, and 20s. worth of bread. Lord Pembroke pays a legacy of 5/. a year, out of the manor of Swallow Cliff in this county, part to the chaplain himself: m. a guinea for a hat, the remainder to be by him distributed amongst ever} description of prisoners. One pound fifteen shillings, being the interest of 50/. left by Mr. Smith of Salisbury, is likewise dwided' amongst them. No memorial of ai.v legacy hung

vm j o -

up in the gaol. Every Christmas one of the turnkeys goes through the city and adjacent pans with

s 4 a box:

&6q account op the various prisons

a box: the collection when I was there amounted to 9/. iuj. 4d. which is laid out by the keeper in purchasing meat for the felons.

Any debtor refusing to attend chapel is locked up during divine service. And it is the custom here to lock every debtor in his room from two ’till four on a Sunday, that the turnkey tpay go to church-

. IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

&6l

SCARBOROUGH; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, Luke Smelt; Salary, 20/.

Fees, 6s. 4A and is. the Town Clerk, If a Town action.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. When one is wanted he is paid by the Town.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 3, - 4

Allowance. None whatever, except to paupers, who have the same allowance as those at the poor-house *

REMARKS.

No court-yard. No free ward. Debtors pay 6d. per week. If the keeper finds a bed, 3J. per night. No firing allowed.

I

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

SHEFFIELD; Yorkshire.

Gaoler, Godfrey Fox; Salary, none.

Fees, in the High Court, for commitment and turnkey, i/. $s. In the Low Court, 6d.

Garnish, 2s. Gd. High Court debtors; Low Court debtors, is. id.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. Moorhouse attends the sick in prison as surgeon for the overseers of the poor, from whom he has a salary.

Number of Debtors, f 4 High Court.

1801, Nov. 14, c 14 Low Court.

Allowance. None, but casual relief from the

1

overseers of the poor.

REMARKS.

"'This prison is for debtors only, and those of two descriptions commonly called the High and Low Court prisoners: viz. the High are detained for debts above ten pounds, by virtue of a process from the courts at Westminster, directed to the chief bailiff of the liberty of Hallamshire, Kc.’and are entitled to the same privileges in the law as prisoners in York Castle.

5

The

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

2^3

The Low Court are detained for debts under 40s. by virtue of a process from the court baron of the manor of Sheffield, held under a particular act of parliament obtained for that purpose, directing that three months imprisonment shall discharge the prisoner from debt and costej if the same be not sooner paid or satisfied.

High Court debtors have a very small court-yard, and a day-room 6 yards by 5. Low Court debtors have two court-yards about 6 yards square. rI he men and women are together in the day-time, but separate at night. No employment furnished. Each prisoner works at what he can get to do from the town, and has the whole of his earnings.

The Duke of Norfolk is chief bailiff of the liberty of Hallamshire; and also lord of the manor of {Sheffield.

* <64 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

SHREWSBURY; Shropshire.

Gaoler, Richard Cartwright.

Salary, 200/. for Gaol and Bridewell.

Fees, 3-r. 6d.

Garnish. None allowed.

Chaplain, Rev. W. G. Rowland.

Duty, prayers every Thursday; and a sermon every Sunday, Good-Friday, and Christmas-day. Salary, 70/.

Surgeon, Mr. William Thomas. Salary, 50/.

Number of Debtors / Io00? 23

I 1802, Jan. 30, .... 14

Allowance. One pound eight ounces of bread, made of wheat flour only.

REMARKS.

The bread is made by the female convicts and baked in the gaol. Wheat at iu. the strike, a leaf of 1 lb. 8cz. costs the County 2\d.

Master's side debtors have a court-yard 36 feet square, a day-room 14 feet by 12. Common-side debtors have a court-yard 70 feet by 39, and a day-room 20 feet by 14. Sixteen sleeping-cells, to which the County allows a hair mattress, a pair of

IN ENGLAND AND WALES *

265

sheets, one blanker in summer, and two in winter. Master's side debtors sleep single, and pay 4*. per week for County furniture, but if they find their own beds they pay only is. per week. The name of every prisoner who does not attend divine service is inserted in a book kept for that purpose. No firing allowed by the County except they are very poor; in severe weather they often have coals given to them, the cost of which is only seven-pence -per hundred.

The Under Sheriff demands a fee of 7s. 6d. upon discharge of a common writ; and from those who are under execution one shilling in the pound, if under 100/.; if above 100/. six-pence in the pound.

266 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

SOUTHAMPTON; Hampshire.

Gaoler, Jeffery Johnson Truss.

Salary, none, as Gaoler; but as Serjeant at Mace, 15/.

Fees, entrance 4discharge 20s-. first action 5 and ioj. second, and every other action: and 2s. turnkey.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeons, Messrs. Re ale and Barnett, who make a bill.

Number of Debtors, 1802, March 19, - 4

Allowance. Six pence per day each, from the County Rate; and a bushel of coals per week amongst all.

REMARKS.

This Gaol for Debtors is a part of the Old Tower* at the lower end of the town; has a court-yard* 42 feet by 36, well supplied with Witter. Two rooms, one for men, the other for women; size, 16 feet by 12 each. The Corporation allows a horse-bedstead, with a wool-mattress, two blankets, and a rug.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 267

There is one room furnished by the keeper, for which the Debtor pays three siblings per week.

The Act for preservation of health, and Clause against spirituous liquors, are not hung up.

The sewers very offensive.

No employment furnished by the County. *

SOUTHGATE. See EXETER.

2&S ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

STAFFORD.

Gaoler, John Harris; Salary, 20oh

Fees. See Table.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Raihbonc.

Duty, prayers every Wednesday; and a Sermon every Surfdav, Christmas-day, and Good-Friday. To keep a Journal, in which he shall enter the times of his attendance, and such observations as may occur to him in the general execution of his duty. To consider it as his duty occasionally to see all the prisoners, without the Governor, or other Officer, being present; to enquire into their situation; also attend every prisoner who may desire his spiritual advice and assistance, and administer the% sacrament to such person^ and at such times, as he shall think proper.

Salary, 3o/.

Surgeon, Mr. Hughes; Salary, 30/.

He shall visit the patients in the sick ward once every day; and once a week see every prisoner; and enter his observations and directions in a journal, to be kept for that purpose; he shall attend immediately on notice from the governor of any sickness, or of any new commitment,

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 269

that may require examination of a prisoner, before he be passed into prison. He must report to the Justices, at each quarter-sessions, and at such other times as they shall require, the state of the health of the prisoners under his care; and shall attend the Justices, on notice, when visiting the prison. He shall write in his journal what extra bedding, clothing, food, or liquors, are necessary for the use of the prisoners; and such order shall be considered as an authority to the Governor to procure the same, and shall be a proper voucher for the article in his account.

Number of Debtors, 1801, Nov. 19, ... 18

Allowance. From the County, to each debtor, one pound of good wheaten bread every day; one pound of cheese every week; seven pounds of potatoes every week; one halfpenny worth of new milk (about two thirds of a pint) every morning *

N.B. Debtors, who receive the six-pences from, the Plaintiffs, have no County allowance of food.

rt

A

REMARKS,

REMARKS.

Men-debtors have a court-yard, 56 yards by 30; a day-room, 30 feet by 16; two small work-rooms, 14 feet by 8 feet 6 inches; and a ditto, 9 feet by 8 feet 6 inches.

Women Debtors have a court-yard, 30 yards by 8; a day-room, 24 feet by 15; and a sleeping-room, 24 feet by 15.

The men-debtors sleep in separate cells, each 8 feet by 6 feet 6 inches, to which the County allows a bedstead and bedding.

Rule II. That any debtor inclined to work shall be employed, on application to the keeper, or manufacturer, allowing a third part of his earnings to Such keeper or manufacturer; or if he can have the means of labour brought to him from without the prison, he may work without the interference of the officers of the prison, provided the materials or tools shall not, either from their bulk or nature, be unfit to be admitted into the prison.

Rule V. That a division of the debtors’ prison shall be set apart for the irregular and contumacious prisoners, and such as shall refuse or neglect to adhere to the rules prescribed by the Magistrates; it shall be called the Sheriff's or Common Ward.; and the prisoners confined in this division shall be considered as withdrawn from all County allowance, and'r from

IN ENGLAND AND WALES

271

from every other protection and assistance intended

by the magistrates to poor and unfortunate Debtors.

Rule VIII. That the Table of Fees to be paid by

the debtors be as follows.

Table of Fees.

£. s. d.

For entering tile action wherein each prisoner is brought into custody on any Writ or Process, o 10 6

For every second or other action, ........060

For the certificate of a declaration not having been

delivered in order to sue out a writ of Supersedeas, 068

The above demandable of the prisoner.

For receiving and entering every declaration against a

prisoner in custody, ...... 020

For each copy of a warrant against a prisoner, ..030

These to be paid by the persons delivering the declaration, or demanding the copy of the warrant.

For attending upon every prisoner to give bail, or special bail, as on a Habeas Corpus, or on any other necessary occasion, out of the Gaol, as directed by the statute, per mile, ....ore *

That no greater or other fee shall be taken by the keeper of the gaol, from or on the account of any prisoner in his custody. And that all fees hitherto demandable by law or custom, by the said keeper from the county, shall totally cease and determine,

272 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

That all the said fees (except for the keeper’s attendance out of the gaol), when paid by any prisoner to the keeper, shall be accounted for by him to the public fund, in aid of the debtor’s maintenance.

Rule IX. That every prisoner, who, during his confinement, shall have duly submitted to the regulations, and who has not been guilty of swearing, drunkenness, or other disorderly conduct, shall receive a certificate of good behaviour from a visiting Justice, or from the Chaplain and Governor, which shall be a discharge of all fees, payable to the keeper or gaoler.

Rule X. That the following Charges for lodging, bedding, <kc. be allowed.

Table of Charges, for Lodging, &c..

£. s. d.

Evrery person confined in the Sheriff’s Ward, finding

his own bedding, per week, ........o 1 o

Every person with bedding allowed by the County, 026

Every person occupying a room in the keeper’s house,

shall pay per week, ...... 02 6

If with bedding furnished by the keeper, ....040

<c The foregoing Rules and Regulations, for the Cf government of the New Gaol for the County of (t Stafford, were approved and confirmed; and the <c Chairman was requested to lay the same before the (i Judges at the next assizes.”

J. Sparrow, Chairman.

Stafford, 14 March, 1793.

Allowed, J. Wilson,

N. Grose.

4

IN ENGLAND AND WALES, 2/3

The following Order was made and confirmed:

££ That debtors shall be permitted to send for, or c£ have brought to them, at seasonable hours, '- any £f victuals or cloathing; but, in respect to liquor, no ££ prisoners shall be allowed either to send for or ££ to drink more than one pint of wine, or one quart “ of beer, in one day, or twenty-four hours; and ££ if any prisoner shall be detected in making use of ££ the name of any other prisoner, for the purpose of ££ obtaining any greater quantity of wine, or beer, (C the prisoner consenting to lend his name, and the ££ prisoner using it, shall be incapable of receiving ec a certificate of good behaviour; and the gaoler ££ shall be required to remove them into the Sheriff’s ££ or common ward.”

Stafford, ist August, 1793.

Allozvcd by us,

Ken yon,

N. Grose.

T 3

274 account of the various prisons

SURREY COUNTY GAOL; Borough.

Gaoler, James Ives.

Salary 300/. $ and if the Debtor’s fees should not amount to 100/. per and. in addition, the County to make up the deficiency. Also for the Bridewell, 30/.

Fees, 1 or. 10 d.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Winkworth.

Duty, every Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday,

Salary, 5c/.; and as Secretary to the Visiting Committee, 30/.

Surgeons, Messrs. Saumerez and Dixon.

Salary, 75/. for prisoners of every description in Gaol and House of Correction.

Number of Debtors

1800, April 15, 1802, Jan. 16,

46

51

Allowance. One pound of bread per day, to common-side debtors only. Master’s side debtors to have no allowance whatever.

REMARKS.

Master’s side Debtors.

Court-yard, paved with flag stones, 75 feet by 30, to walk in when fine weather; and Arcades, paved with flag stones, 31 feet by 26; a day-room, 27

feet

IN ENGLAND, AND WALES.

feet by 20, with a fire-place to use If they think proper; sixteen sleeping-rooms, 14 feet 6 inches by 9 feet 3 inches each, one window, iron-barred and

The keeper finds bed and bedding, and is paid for the same 31. 6d. per week, if the debtor has a bed to himself; if two lie together, is. c/d. each.

This is printed, and put up on the master’s side, for the inspection of all persons whatever.

Common-side Debtors.

Court-yard, paved with flag-stones, 75 feet by 30. Arcades, 26 feet by 25, paved with flag-stones; day-room 27 feet by 20, with a fire-place; twelve rooms, 14 feet 6 inches by 9 feet 3 inches each; one window, iron-barred and glazed. These debtors sleep in hammocks, and find their own bedding.

Women Debtors.

Court-yard, paved with flag-stones, about 20 feet square; a day-room, with a fire-place, 18 feet square; four rooms, 14 feet 6 inches by 9 feet 3 inches each; one window, iron-barred and glazed. Women-debtors find their own bedding, and pay the keeper nothing.

I beg leave here to pay my acknowledgments to the Right Honourable Lord Leslie, Sir Thomas Turton, Bart, and the Visiting Magistrates, who did me the honour to accompany me over every part of this excellently well-regulated gaol, the cleanliness and

t 4 good

£76 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

good order of which I have noticed in the first edition of this work; and to which, probably, may be ascribed its healthiness; nine persons only having died by illness since it was first inhabited, (the third of August, 1798,) although the average number of prisoners in it is, and has been, from 150 to 200.

A Copy of Legacies and Donations to the Poor Debtors on the Common-side of the (then called tc The White Lion Prison”) County Gaol, Surrey.

A gift of the Archbishop of Canterbury, to be ap- £• S. d.

plied for e\ rery Christmas, 1 O 0

Thomas Dawson, a legacy every Christmas, .. 0 9 0

Arthur Mouse, ditto, ditto, 0 4

Jean Hawkes, ditto, ditto, 0 3 4

John Stocks, ditto, in bread, yearly, .... 0 5 0

Richard Jacobs, ditto, every Easter, .... 2 0 0

Margaret Dane, ditto, 5th of November, four stone three quarters of beef and two dozen of hread.

The parish of Allhallows, every two years, at Christ? mas, one hundred weight of beef.

The Lealhersellers’ Company, every quarter, 55. in bread, and 2s. in money.

Elizabeth Simeott, a legacy in bread every eight weeks, of $s. from the Chamberlain's Office.

Dutchess of Gloucester, one chaldron of coals, yearly.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 277

Extract from the Rules, Orders, and Regulations, for the Government of the Common Gaol of the County of Surrey, so far as relates to Debtors.

That all persons demeaning themselves properly, have free access to the debtors, both male and female, as well on the common as the master’s side, from the hour of nine o’clock in the forenoon until eight in the evening, from Lady-day to Michaelmas; and from nine to six in the evening from Michael* mas to Lady-day; and that no strangers whatever be permitted to remain within the walls of the prison after such hours. The debtors’ wards to be opened at seven o’clock in the morning.

That all persons considered as crown prisoners, or debtors taken upon the Exchequer process, or upon warrants from the commissioners of the customs, commissioners of the excise, or justices’ warrants, for offences against the laws of customs and excise, be subject to the same regulations as the debtors on the common-side.

At a Meeting of Visiting Magistrates, held March

27th, 1799.

The debtors having requested that the hours of locking up may be changed during the summer half year, viz. for six weeks after Lady-day, to continue to be locked up at seven, the following three

months

2?^ ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

months at nine, and from that time till Michaelmas at seven;

Ordered, That this indulgence be granted them according to their desire.

Table of Fees to be taken by the Gaoler of the County of Surrey from the Debtors of the said Gaol.

For the discharge of every prisoner for

debt, ......

For his conduct warrant on his attendance with prisoners on returns of Habeas Corpuses by the Sheriff, .. For attending with prisoners by rule or orders of Court, or otherwise to be bailed or receive judgment, .... For the use of bed, bedding, and sheets, for every debtor on the master’s side of the prison, for the first night, ..

For every night after the first, .....

For a room, bed, and bedding, per week, ......

O IO 10

o io 6

o to 6

o o 6 0 ° 3

036

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 279

TOTHILL FIELDS; London,

Gaoler, Alexander Fenwick,

Salary, 300/. if room-rent, bedding, and fees, amount to that sum; otherwise the County makes up the difference.

Fees, felons, 55. zd.

Garnish, is. 2d.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Bennett.

Duty, Sunday, Prayers and Sermon.

Salary, 20/.

Surgeon, Mr. Henbury; Salary, 30/.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 6, ......2

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

This prison has for debtors (and persons committed for assaults and bastardy) one courr-yard, about 30 feet by 20; a day-room, 15 feet by 10; and a sleeping-room the same size; every one must find his own bedding; but in the winter months the County allows straw in sacking, and two blankets, upon barrack-beds; those who have a single bed furnished by the keeper pay one shilling a night; if two lie together, 35. 6d, a week each.

Women

280 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

Women-debtors are on the opposite side of the garden, and have the small court ro walk in, which leads to the keeper’s house. One day-room, about9 feet square, and a sleeping room, about io feet square; each finds her own bed; but in the winter months a straw sacking-bed and two blankets are furnished by the County. There are likewise seven chaldron and half of coals allowed annually, to be equally distributed amongst all the prisoners. The courts are all well supplied with water; the prison airy, and clean in every part, except the different day-rooms, which (owing to all the chimneys smoaking) I found very black and dirty.

Debtors are required to attend divine service; and if any misbehave, they are locked up in the refractory ward, and kept on bread and water.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 281

WARWICK.

Gaoler, Henry Tatnall; Salary, 300/.

Fees, 31. entering first action, and 10s. 6d. discharge-fee; but these are accounted for by the Keeper to the County Justices: besides these fees, the Under Sheriff demands 4/. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. HughLangharne. Duty, Sunday and Wednesday. Salary, 50/.

Surgeon, Mr. Birch; Salary, 25/.

Number of Debtors

1800, April 6, .1802, Jan. 28,

32

* 9

Allowance. One pound and a half of bread per day, and soup twice a week.

REMARKS.

The debtors have a court-yard, size 82 feet by 37. Their day-room 14 feet by 13. Master’s side debtors pay is. 6d. per week for a bed to themselves; if two lie together, is. 6d. each. Common-side debtors have three rooms, with chaff-beds; and are allowed some firing. All must attend chapel, unless prevented by illness.

282 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

WHITECHAPEL, London.

Gaoler, John Simpson, who is also a Sheriff's Officer.

Salary, none. He pays rent 15/. window-tax, and all other taxes.

Fees, 8j. id.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

(1801, April 2, ....1

Number of Debtors^ 1801, Aug. 19, .... 1

\1802, Jan. 27, . o

Allowance. None whatever.

REMARKS.

This is a prison for the Liberties and Manors of Stepney and Hackney. In it are confined those whose debts are above 2/. and not exceeding 5/. There are four rooms fronting the road, two on each story, about 15 feet by 13, and 8 feet high. If a debtor sleeps in any of these rooms, he pays the keeper, for the use of a bed, one shilling the first night, and six-pence per night afterwards. The court-yard is 40 feet by 20, in which is the men’s day-room, 12 feet by 10. From the court you ascend by a wooden stair-case to a gallery, in which are two sleeping-rooms, and women’s day-room, of equal size with that below. These are free wards.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 283

By an act, in 1781, 21 George III. entitled, “An “ Act for diminishing the fees payable, and altering “ the mode of proceeding, in the Court of Record, “ within the manors of Stepney and Hackney, &c.” imprisonment is fixed, ct for a time not exceeding “ cm week, for every pound of the total debt and “ costs.” By this good act no prisoners can be confined here more than five weeks.

Whitechapel is the prison of the Baron Court of Stepney and Hackney, and is private property.

A Court is held every Thursday; and a regular one once in six weeks.

284 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

WINCHESTER, City-Gaol.

Gaoler, William Forster. Salary. None.

Fees. No table settled by the Corporation,

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon. None.

Number of Debtors, .. o; Offenders, ...<2,

Allowance. To felons a quart loaf every other day, weight (Jan. 3, 1802,) 2lb. 40Z.

REMARKS.

Debtors arrested on actions sued out of the City court, for any sums great or small, are sent to this gaol, which is newly built, and the keeper lately appointed, so that I could get no certain information about it. For debtors, there are two rooms about 13 feet square and 9 feet high; a court-yard 20 feet by 14. The felons two rooms are below on the opposite side of the prison, and open into their courtyard:the City allows a straw sacking bed, (no bedstead,) bolster, blanket, and rug, and a bushel of coals every week; there being only one fire allowed the two prisoners (a man and a woman) were locked up together. Both rooms are lighted by an iron grating over each door, and a small aperture in the door9 inches by 7. Courts well supplied with water, and the prison clean.

In the front of the building is the following inscription:“ Eredled in the year 1800, Joseph Barker, esq. mayor.”

tN ENGLAND AND WALES.

WINCHESTER, County-Gaol

Gaoler, John White.

Salary, 200/. and zl. is. a year for keeping the bread accompt, to check the baker.

Fees, i/. and to the turnkey is,; for every other action nr.; copy of every warrant ir.; certificate for six-pences gs. 4d.; besides which the Under Sheriff demands a fee of 6s. 8d. and is. for his clerk, for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Nicholas Weistco?nb.

Duty, Sunday, Wednesday, and Friday.

Salary, 7c/. for Gaol and House of Correction *

Surgeon, Mr. Giles Lyford.

Salary, 100/. for Gaol and House of Correction.

, _, f 1800, March 20, Number of Debtors 0 T

L 1002, Jan. 3,

..39.. 26

Allowance. Those on the common-side have each seventeen ounces of bread per day, and a pound of mutton each on Sunday. No allowance on the master's side.

U

REMARKS.

236 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

REMARKS.

Master’s side debtors have a court yard 90 feet by 75 feet; their apartments (over the old dungeon which has been raised) consist of a day-room and two sleeping-rooms, boarded, on the ground floor, with a large window to each. On the first and second story are two sleeping-rooms and a day-room to each. Every debtor pays is. 6d. per week for a bed. Women debtors have a court-yard 50 feet by 20; a day-room, and above it two sleeping-rooms. Common-side debtors occupy one wing North-East of the New Gaol, they are alloyed about 40 bushels of coals in the winter, and those who are certificated as paupers have 170Z. of bread per day, and a pound of meat each on a Sunday. The Dole, a donation at the Hospital of St. Croix, about a mile from the city:a small loaf is given to every person who chooses to apply, six times a year, viz. Easter-eve, Whitsun-eve, May the 3d, August loth, October 31, and Christmas-eve; upon sending the number of prisoners in custody on that day, the game number of loaves are put by, and sent for the day following. Debtors have the option of attending divine service, but if they neglect are locked up in their rooms till it is over. The Rev. John Milner, a Komish priest, attends gratuitously those of the game persuasion. The keeper appears to be humane and intelligent; and I found the prison very clean.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 287

Water is laid on by leaden pipes to every part of it. No employment is provided by the County.

Through the exertions of that active and excellent magistrate Sir Henry St. John Mildmay, Bart, a fund is now established in this county for the relief of those poor debtors who are unable to sue for their six-pences, supersedeas, &c. and likewise to give some temporary assistance to enable them to return to their places of residence. If similar institutions were established throughout England and Wales, it would be productive of infinite good; in Wales particularly so, where many poor debtors are confined for three or four pounds, and the expence of sueing for the aliment is greater than the original debt.

In the various county prisons which I have visited, it is astonishing how few have obtained from their creditors the six-pences per day to which they are entitled by the Lords’ Act. At Bedford the gaoler told me, that, during the seventeen years he had held that office, he did not remember one debtor having obtained the relief provided by that benevolent act.

N

t 2

288 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

WORCESTER CASTLE GAOL.

Gaoler, William Davis.

Salary, ioo/.

Fees. See Table.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. William Falkner.

Duty, Prayers and Sermon every Sunday, Christmas-day, and Good-Friday.

Salary, 20/.

Surgeon, Mr. Rayment; Salary, 20/.

1

r 1800, ........10

Number of Debtors < 0 r

f 1802, Jan. 31, .... 15

Allowance. None, except the party applies to the visiting magistrates, to swear to his or her last settlement; and then, if the parish is within the county, they will make an order to allow the prisoner a weekly sum. If it is out of the magistrates jurisdiction, they cannot make an order. The utmost the keeper ever remembers was is. 6d. per week.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 289

REMARKS.

Master’s side debtors have a spacious court-yard, and a day-room 21 feet by 13; a cooking-room 19 feet square. They pay 2s. 6d. per week for a single bed; if two lie together u. 6d. each. Common-side debtors have a free ward 18 feet by 17, to which the county allows straw, but no bedding. The debtors attendance on divine service is optional. No firing allowed by the County.

Table of Fees.

£ s. d.

For entering action 0 6 8

For every 2d or other action For certificate of no declaration to ground 0 3 4

supersedeas The above demandable of prisoners. 0 3 4

For receiving and entering declaration.. 0 3 4

For copy of warrant Attending upon every prisoner out of the 0 r> 0 4

gaol per mile 0 I 0

* 9o

ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

WORCESTER, City-Gaol

Gaoler, James Griffiths; Salary, 60/.

Fees, 9s. 4^.; the Under Sheriff demands 2s.6d. for his liberate.

Garnish. None.

Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Faulkner.

Duty, Once a week.

Salary, 10I.

Surgeon, Mr. Ray merit *

Sslary, none; makes a bill.

f 1800, March 27,

Number of Debtors i 0 -n i o

L 1803, reb. 8, ..

. 8

. 1

Allowance. None,

REMARKS.

No person, arrested by virtue of a writ issued out of the Court of Pleas of the City of Worcester, has ever been able to derive any advantage under the Lords’ Act.

IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 291

YARMOUTH.

Gaoler, Richard Helsdon; Salary, 40/.

Fees, 6r. 8d.\

Garnish. None.

Chaplain. None.

Surgeon, Mr. William Taylor, jun.

Salary, none; makes a bill.

Number of Debtors, 1802, Feb. 16, .....2

Allowance. One pound of bread per day each.

REMARKS.

One court-yard, 27 feet by 18; a day-room, 10 feet square; and a free ward for the poor freemen of the Borough. No bedding or straw allowed. Master’s side debtors pay 3s. 6d. per week for a bed. A peck of coals per day allowed by the Corporation. The benevolent keeper, in a letter to me, says, “ I <c make it a matter of option with all prisoners, fyoth “ debtors and felons, to attend divine service on the <c evening of the Sabbath:when I read to them “ that portion of the Liturgy of the Church of England appointed for the day, and afterwards a sermon; at which time they have constantly attended, ’ '

u 4

&g2 ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOUS PRISONS

YORK CASTLE.

Gaoler, William Staveley; Salary, 450/.

Fees, 12s.; besides which the Under Sheriff demands, if the debtor is discharged by the plaintiff, $s. 4d. and if discharged by Supersedeas, 7s. 8d.

Garnish. Every debtor pays a bag of coals and turf, to the room he lives in.

Chaplain, Rev. George Brozvn.

Duty, Prayers every Monday, Tuesday, and Friday; and, in Summer, on a Sunday afternoon. A sermon, every Thursday morning, is likewise preached by the Rev. Mr. Richardson,

Surgeons, Messrs. Champney and Drake, Salary, none; make a bill.

f 1800, March 21, ...73

Number of Debtors<! Q T o

11802, Jan. 28, .... 73

The average number is from 80 to 90

Allowance. To those debtors who are certificated as paupers, nine pence in bread every Tuesday and Friday.

REMARKS.

The debtors’ court-yard is about an acre of ground, and their room about 17 feet square. The master’s

side

IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

* 93

side debtors pay for a single bed two pence per night; and if two sleep together one penny each. Common-side debtors have the upper rooms of the prison, where two sleep in a bed (except where they find their own beds). No bedding or straw is found by the County.

It is a matter of option with debtors to attend chapel.

The County finds no employment for any of them. They fix upon their own work, in spinning worsted, combing wool, manufacturing laces from worsted and cotton, and also making a variety of articles from worsted, cotton, and silk; by which means many of them are enabled to greatly assist themselves and families. They expose them to sale in the castle-yard; by which advantage they derive a good benefit.

(29S)

POSTSCRIPT.

1 HAT approbation with which my first account of debtors was honoured by the publick, and the benefit which some of them have received by County allowances in consequence, has induced me to present to it a second statement; which, I am sorry to say, contains a very faint picture of the great misery, and still greater corruption and depravity, which exists in Bridewells, and Houses of

Correction, and which I was led by accident to make a part of my plan of inspection into prisons; but which I shall esteem particularly fortunate, if the result of it shall call the attention of the Magistrates of our country to the amelioration of the miseries of my fellow-creatures in those situations; and if it shall tend to the correction of those vices which their characters exhibit, vices which have not only a ruinous tendency to the real interests and welfare of our country, but which must, if they do not meet with some salutary correction, necessarily operate, with other causes, to its decline and fall.

I do

POSTSCRIPT.

296

I do not presume to tread, passibus acquis, with the good and great Howard, who has preceded me in the inspection of prisons; but I must observe that, if Bridewells and Houses of Correction are to be continued receptacles for convicts from gaols, and that these convicts are to be in constant communication with those who are young offenders, and who are committed for lighter offences, for the correction of which, and for the prevention of greater ones, Bridewells and Houses of Correction were originally and solely designed; and if also offenders committed to such situations are not classed and separated according to the nature and degree of their offences; and if no religious attentions are paid to them, as is in too many instances the case; vice and corruption must increase, and Bridewells and Houses of Correction must become, in a greater degree than they have hitherto been, nurseries for our gaols; and the melancholy list of our executions will be added to, in a tenfold degree more shocking to humanity than it is at present.

(297)

HINTS AND OBSERVATIONS

FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF

THE PRESENT EXISTING LAWS

RESPECTING

PERSONS IMPRISONED FOR SMALL DEBTS.

By J A M E S NEILD,

TREASURER OF THE SOCIETY, &C.

i. A Total abolition of Fees and Lodgings, and a Salary allowed to the Gaoler by the County in Lieu thereof.

Because, When a debt is liquidated by being forgiven, by Supersedeas, or an Act of Insolvency, the gaoler detains the debtor for fees and lodgings during pleasure, or even life:thus the debt increases with his inability to pay it; and the gaoler becomes judge, jury, and executioner.

II. An equal provision from the County .to every debtor certificated as a pauper.

Because, In seme gaols the county-allowance is 2s. in others is. cel is. 6d. and is. per week, whilst in many there is no allowance at all.

III. The

298 HINTS AND OBSERVATIONS

TIL The time of imprisonment for sums, not exceeding any given sum say 100/. to be proportioned to the magnitude of the debt.

Because, When a man finds himself insolvent, and in daily expectation of a Gaol, he very often wantonly increases his debt, knowing that he shall as soon get his discharge for 100/. as for 10L We have many instances where a debtor, on his being arrested, has offered Ss. gs. and even ion in the pound, to his creditor, which, being rejected, he has (very naturally) spent for his support in prison.

If the Magistrates, at the quarter-sessions, were impowered to receive this composition and lessen the quantum of imprisonment, it would serve essentially to discriminate between the unfortunate and fraudulent debtor.

IV. A power in the quarter-sessions to grant a debtor his sixpences.

Because, The assizes are held only twice a year, and in some counties only once. The creditor

* See Whitechapel Gaol, p.282.

f I am well aware of the objections which may arise fror* lodging such a power in the justices; therefore, perhaps, a better mode would be to fix it in a jury (as I have before suggested), to hear and decide, according to the particular circumstances; the imprisonment would then operate as a punishment inflicted by a proper forum.

FOR IMPROVEMENT OF PRISONS. 299

must have fourteen days clear notice, which, through the poverty or ignorance of the debtor, or neglect of his attorney, is very frequently omitted:so the poor debtor must lie at least half a year, perhaps a year or years, without benefit from that benevolent act.

V. That a notice served on the plaintiff’s attorney should be deemed a legal notice.

Because, It is allowed in England; whereas in Wales the notice must be served on the creditor himself, who may perhaps live eighteen or twenty miles distant from the gaol. When the poor debtor has collected as much money as will pay a person to undertake a journey through a mountainous and pathless country, the creditor may be from home, in a very distant part; or the messenger may pocket the money, and never go at all. We have instances of this kind.

VI. An encouragement to work, by some manufactory established by the County, with whom the risque of the sale of the articles so manufactured should lie, and two thirds of the profit given to the debtor

N.B. It is less criminal to permit inaction than compel it; and the latter must be the case where there is no opportunity to work.

* See Dorchester., p, 98, and Gloucester, p. 140.

VII. A

300 HINTS AND OBSERVATIONS, &C.

VII. A Chaplain to every gaol; and every debt of not attending divine service, except in case of sickness, to be punished by short allowance.

VIII. An exemption from the window-tax.

Because, The exclusion of light and air creates disease*.

IX. An entire separation from the felons. In the language of a great moral writer 'j~, “From such an association springs every corruption which poverty and wickedness can generate, with all the shameless and profligate enormities that can be produced by the impudence of ignominy, the rage of want, and the malignity of despair. In a prison, the awe of the public eye is lost; and the power of the law is spent; there are few fears, there are no blushes; the lewd inflame the lewd, the audacious harden the audacious. Every one fortifies himself as he can against his own sensibility; endeavours to practise on others the arts which are practised on himself, and o-ains the kindness of his associates by simi-

O J

litude of manners.

Thus some sink amidst their misery, and others survive only to propagate villainy.”

Lastly, That a committee be appointed at the quarter-sessions, and a journal of the daily occurrences of the gaol be kept for their inspection, or of any Magistrate of the County.

* Sec Knaresborough, p. 182. f Dr. Samuel Johnson,

(301)

OBSERVATIONS

ON

ARRESTS on MESNE PROCESS,

tor

SMALL DEBTS, &c.

The prisons, notwithstanding the recent Act of Insolvency, are already crowded with debtors on mesne process, for sums under 30/. About four fifths of the debtors sent to prison are for debts under 10L and in this class there are now 45 in Newgate.

With respect to a further restriction of the law of arrests on mesne process, we are not, upon a question so important, left without a guide; our ancestors, 75 years ago, restrained the law of arrests, on process from the superior courts at Westminster, by preventing them for sums under ten pounds

By this law, many thousand debtors have been saved from imprisonment, and, if revised, might be the means of avoiding the necessity of again enlarging the prisons, or of passing more frequent Acts of Insolvency; as money decreased in value, the benefits intended by this law gradually diminished; and we may remember, that, about 20 or 30 years ago, Newgate, the IvingVBench, the Fleet, and

* i2 Geo. I. c. 29.

X

other

other prisons, were considerably enlarged; but their future dimensions must depend upon the length of time in which it shall please the wisdom of Parliament to keep this law stationary, and the increase of poverty and population, or, upon a more speedy recurrence to Acts of Insolvency, to make room for a fresh assortment of prisoners.

The pressure of the times may constrain many to run in debt, without any reasonable prospect of payment; but, whatever may occasion Insolvency, the means of payment are not increased by the practice of arrests for small debts; it will, therefore, excite no surprize that the poor debtor cannot escape imprisonment.

It has been stated by respectable authority, that arrests, even for small debts, were useful, as a stimulus to a settlement of the action, and by preventing much expensive litigation; thus the evils, though great, are supposed productive of more titan an equal counterbalance of good; but the evils are certain, while the proposed advantages are doubtful, and the speculation against all experience:the number of actions settled is less, and the executions more, in bailable actions, than in actions not bailable; a clear proof, that an arrest (particularly for small debts) cannot be the prevailing motive to a compromise of the action, much less to payment, in the event of Insolvency; and in that case, the process is severe, the speculation must fail, no stimulus can work an impossibility;

in

FOR SMALL DEBTS, &C. 303

in the case of disability, arising from poverty, the man arrested, destitute of money and friends, cannot find bail; the fruit of the arrest is therefore fruitless imprisonment.

If ten pounds, seventy years ago, was equal to thirty pounds, compared with the value of money at this day, the letter of the statute may remain, while the benevolent intentions, founded in the wisdom of the Legislature, may be defeated. -To shew the policy of a further restriction proportioned to a decrease in the value of money since that period, suppose the laws in restraint of arrests under ten pounds repealed, the number of prisoners would be increased, by embracing a still larger class of poor debtors, and prisons would soon overflow.

By a statute passed in the present reign, in restraint of such arrests in the inferior courts *, perhaps

more than 200,000 arrests have been prevented

within the last 20 years; but it never has been contended that by such law the credit and commerce of the country has been in the least impaired; on the contrary, during'this period it has risen to the highest pitch of prosperity.

Every creditor shares in the speculation of an arrest (though the chance of success is thereby evidently diminished, when the party has neither money nor friends); but the practice is pursued from habit, although often with reluctance, lest

* 19 Geo, JII.

X 2

one

304 ON ARRESTS on mesne process,

one creditor should lose an advantage through forbearance, which is gained by another from an act of severity. It is very common to find in the hands of the Sheriff several writs against the same man, at the same time, for trifling debts of io/. to 12/.; so that by the expence of the remedy upon this class of debtors, their means of payment are reduced in proportion. If, therefore, only for s?nall sums the speculation were destroyed, which from experience is shewn to serve no other purpose than to encourage desperate games of chance; the debtor left at his liberty, even for a time before he could be reached by an execution, and freed from the expence of such arrest, might be enabled to compromise the action, from which he is now totally prevented, by incurring costs which he cannot avoid, and which eat up all his funds.

A Table,

X

03

a

w

A Table, shewing the number of Process in Middlesex sued out in One Year, distinguishing the number of bailable from those not bailable, number of Arrests, Debtors sent to Prison, Bail Bonds, Executions, and Actions compromised or abandoned on account of poverty, divided into Four Classes*.

Debts under jo/, . -Debts above ie£. Above 20/, . 3°X-and upwards.

Number and Process. and not bailable. and under 2c£. and under 30/h

No. of Process - 10,000 5, 600 1, 776 5>015

No. of Arrests - — — — 2, 470 725 i.958

No. of Bail Bonds — — — i.35° 340 1, 4^0

No. of Prisoners — — — .35° \ 77 I 573 1

No. of Executions No. of Rules for 1 398 368 84 j 1, 6obf

Return of Writs J No. of Actions d 700 3 00 1, 200

compromised or 1 abandoned on Ac- [9, 602 4, 882 1.615 2, 836

count of Poverty J

f In the various! Country Prisons 354 *79 928

* For the Middlesex calculation and observations I beg leave to express my acknowledgements to Joseph Burch all. Esq.

+ To which may be added the Number of Debtors committed on Writs of Habeas Corpus, or on a P Render in Discharge of Bail.

w

FOR SMALL DEBTS, &0.

The Number of Middlesex Debtors discharged from Newgate, by the Authority of Parliament, in and since the Year 1794; the Number of Prisoners, atone Time, within four Months after the Discharge; the Number on the 13th of November 1801, in Newgate, on Mesne Process for want of Bail for Debts under and the Number of their Children, divided into three Classes.

The Time when Acts of Insolvency passed. Number of Prions rs at the time. Number Dis-cha-ged. Number confined .it or.e Time, four nontli' after the Discharge. rnber of Pr'sor r on Mrsne P>o:cs< jot vant tf Bail in Nev\-g it-, on 13 Nov. lBor. r rJebts under zo£• a ’il the Number of t en children. Number ot D o fei Debts above ze£. and uniter 3cr£. al tl same Time, and tin Number of their Chi: men. 'J'unbor «, f l)i u iui Dubts above 30£. and undir 40^* at the same Time, and the Number of their chil-dien.

* 79+ 207 <* CO 120

4 c Debtors 21 Debtors 9 Debtors

1797 182 45 I IO having having having

65 Children. 41 Children. 1 Child.

1801 27 3 144

Co

o

CTv

O

>-4

w

co

H

co

O

g

N

co

W

o

o

w

co

co

V *

p?

n

(3°7)

REPORT

on THE

STATE OF THE CONVICTS IN PORTSMOUTH HARBOUR,

March 16, 1802.

By SIR HENRY ST. JOHN MILDMAY, Bart. M. P. and JAMES NEILD. Esa.

In consequence of an order from his Majesty’s Principal Secretary of State for the Home Department, directed to us, containing an authority to inspect and report on the state and management of the convicts in Portsmouth Harbour and at Langston Harbour; we repaired to Portsmouth on the 15th of March, and the next morning proceeded in the execution of our commission. We have however generally to lament, that our Report cannot, in some respects, be considered so conclusive and satisfactory as we could wish, in consequence of the manifest disadvantage under which any inquiry must be instituted, when a previous intimation has been communicated to the parties themselves, whose conduct and discretion is. the subject of investigation.

The first object .to which we directed our enquiries, was to examine into the state of the convicts on

x 4 board

308 state of the Convicts

board the Captivity, in Portsmouth Harbour, which we understood to be a vessel newly fitted up for their reception, and under regulations recently adopted, for better promoting the health, increasing the accommodations, and establishing good order and discipline among the prisoners. On a general inspection of every part of the ship, we found that all possible precautions were taken, to ensure cleanliness and proper ventilation, and to afford every convenience to the men that could be expected where so large a number are confined in so small a space. We perceived that a new chapel had been lately constructed in the middle of the ship, sufficient in size to admit the whole complement of prisoners at once; but we do not understand that any regular Chaplain has been hitherto appointed to perform divine service in it- We next proceeded to examine into the usual allowance of diet, and the quality of the provisions on board. On this head we are satisfied that on board the Captivity no reasonable grounds of complaint can be said to subsist; the quantity appeared to us sufficient, and the quality of the provisions good. We could not, however, avoid remarking that the convicts generally (those alone excepted who are on the sick list) are supplied with no vegetables whatever, but such as they purchase themselves: we think it would greatly contribute to the health of the prisoners, if they were furnished by Government with a small proportion of garden-stuff, at least on

certain

IN PORTSMOUTH HARBOUR.

3°9

certain clays in the week: and we conceive that if a small piece of ground were allotted to the purpose, which might easily be done on the Gosport side of the harbour, a sufficient quantity might be raised, by the labour of the convicts alone, with little additional expence to the publick. On enquiring into the general state of health of the convicts on board this vessel, it appeared to us that the captain, had bestowed great care and attention on this point. Those who were robust and healthy were employed out of the ship, in his Majesty’s dock-yard; and those who were slightly ailing, convalescents, or cripples, were occupied in menial offices on the decks, or in such other employment as they were fit for on board. The former had every appearance of health, to which we are of opinion that the moderate regular labour in which they are exercised very materially contributes; the latter appeared clean, and, as we were told by the Surgeon, generally convalescent. It appeared however that among the invalids many were ruptured; and on application to the Surgeon, we found that he was not provided with trusses; we therefore think it our duty to recommend to government that he be immediately supplied with these necessary articles. We noticed also a number of persons unable to work in consequence of sore legs, which is attributed by the Surgeon to an impoverished habit and the want of proper care during their confinement

STATE OF THE CONVICTS:

310

ment in those gaols whence they were sent to the Iiulks.

On inspecting the Laurel, which has lately been converted from a Receiving Hulk into an Hospital Ship, for the accommodation of persons in an advanced state of malady, or labouring under infectious disorders; we observed that it contained 21 sick (16 of whom were from Langston Harbour), in a very diseased state. As far as we could judge, it seemed that they were neither in want of proper medical advice, attention, medicine, or of any assistance the Surgeon reported them to require. With regard to discipline, we have every reason to be satisfied, with the precautions that have been taken to preserve order and regularity both by day and night; though, from the nature of the employments in which the convicts are at present occupied (being intermix, d with other persons in the service of Government), a greater facility of escape is afforded than could be wished. We examined the instruments of correction, and the mode of punishment for misbehaviour; to which there can be no objection. On the whole, the result of our enquiries into the state of the Hulks in Portsmouth Harbour is highly favourable to the regulations lately adopted.

From every inquiry we could make into the character and conduct of Mr. Thomas Thompson, the Captain of the Captivity, as well as from an

accurate

IN' PORTSMOUTH HARBOUR.

31 *

accurate inspection into the state both of the vessel and of the convicts under, his command, we have every reason to believe him to be a person of humanity, and attentive to his dbty; and we think it but justice to him to mention, that, during the last year he had the command of the Laurel (then a receiving shin on the old establishment), it appears that the mortality on board her did not, in proportion, amount to one half the number of deaths on board the Hulks in Laneston Harbour.

O

Note. Sir Henry Mildmay, during his inspection of the Convicts at work, observed that the wheel-barrows m ide use of were awkwardly constructed; and that, if those commonly used on canal banks were substituted in their stead, the Convicts would perform a greater quantity of work, with far less labour.

312

STATE OF THE CONVICTS

N° II.

REPORT

ON THE

CONDITION and TREATMENT

OF THE

CONVICTS ON BOARD LA FORTUNEE,

In Langston Haebour,

March i6, 1802.

Having completed our inspection of the Convicts in Portsmouth Harbour, we proceeded to carry our inquiries into the state and condition of the Hulks in Langston Harbour. We have here to regret still more, that the object of our investigation had been anticipated, as we have good reason to believe, not only from the information of some of the convicts themselves, whom we examined apart, but from the most respectable and undoubted authorities, that we should have seen cause even for more severe animadversion, had not the ship been manifestly prepared for our reception.

With respect to the state of the vessel itself, we think it our duty to report it, not only wholly unfit for the present service as a Hulk, but, from its general dilapidated and decayed state, as well as

IN LANGSTON HARBOUR. 313

its original inconvenient construction, that it never can be rendered effective for the purpose. We think it necessary to mention in particular, that the timbers are so decayed, that we saw a small quantity of water poured on the quarter-deck, which, immediately penetrated through the floor, and passed into the Hospital Ward below, where, from the want of better accommodation, persons in all stages of disease, and with all complaints, were living intermixed together. We were told by the Captain, that the quarter-deck was in so dangerous a state, that he apprehended it would give way, under any severe pressure. The boarding throughout the whole ship is so generally out of repair, that we conceive it impossible to preserve that attention to cleanliness so indispensably requisite to the health of the convicts: it appears that the straw in the sacking is changed only twice or three times a year: what we examined was almost reduced to powder, and full of vermin. We found also, that though the lower decks are extremely low, and much crowded, many of 'the ports were nailed down, and could not be opened so as to admit a proper ventilation. On board this vessel we found no Chapel; and we were told that divine service was performed on a Sunday on the quarter-deck, though we conceive, from the confined space, that a small part of the convicts only can have access to it; we understand the Captain never attends himself. With regard to the quantity of diet allowed daily to the

STATE OF THE CONVICTS 314

prisoners, we have nothing to object, as the regulations on that head are nearly similar to those in use

j

on board the Captivity at Portsmouth. With respect however to its quality, we think that in many particulars there is the greatest cause of complaint. The beef we examined we scarcely consider wholesome; it is certainly of the coarsest and worst quality, and so extremely thin, that, although the allowance to each individual is professedly one pound of meat, it amounts scarcely, when served out, to more than half a pound, in consequence of the weight of bone. It may not be improper here to remark, that the meat with which we found the convicts supplied on board La Fortunee appeared of a quality extremely inferior to that furnished to the Captivity the day before; the reason of this difference we are nor able to assign, as both vessels are supplied by the same agent, and under the same contract. The bread we tasted we thought tolerable,

O 1

though we hear from the Captain he has frequently reason to complain of it. The cheese was so execrably bad *, that we thought ourselves justified in ordering one of them to be sent to London for in-

o

spection at the Secretary of State’s Office. The beer we found very good; and, so far as we could judge of the barley and oatmeal, we saw no reason to complain. Some little advantage appears to have been derived to the convicts from about an acre of"

* It is to be observed, that this cheese furnishes the convicts three days in the week.

dinner for

ground

IN LANGSTON HARBOUR.

* T r *

JO

ground that has been appropriated to a garden, though its produce, from want of proper manure, is very scanty. The supply of last year has been long since consumed, excepting a few vegetables reserved for the sick. We cannot here forbear mentioning, that it would add considerably to the comfort of the prisoners, if their provisions were dressed on the spot where they are to be consumed:at present, tire kitchen is on board the hulks, whence the provisions are carried upwards of a quarter of a mile to the place where they are served out. With respect to cloathing, we find that it has been commonly allowed once in six months, and stockings once in

J O

three months; but, in the present instance, that supply has been withheld beyond the usual term, for what reason we cannot say.

j

Under all the above circumstances, we thought it incumbent on us to make a very particular inquiry into the state of health of the consicts, and the degree of mortality that has lately prevailed among them. We are sorry to repo:t, that the number of deaths have increased of late years in a very alarming proportion, insomuch that it appears in the year 1*797, when the greatest min i her of Convicts were on-board in Langston Harbour, the deaths amounted only to nine, and that in the year 18ci they increased to the number of one hunditd and twenty*; and since the commencement of the year 1802 to

* Average

of convicts, 

deaths 011 board { rZ "

[1 bo 1, 120.

---

STATE OF THE CONVICTS 316

the present day (March 16th), they amount to thirty four, notwithstanding the number of Convicts onboard have been lately very considerably diminished, and upwards of twenty of their worst invalids have been removed to the Laurel, in Portsmouth Harbour.

The present complement of La Fortunee is about 300, near fifty of whom are invalids, or cripples on deck, besides eleven confined to their beds, and as many more in the hospital-ward. The complaint that has been most prevalent, and most fatal, begins with a low fever, and ends with a diarrhoea or dysentery.

We think it our duty to report further on this part of the subject, that it appears to us, that great neglect is to be ascribed in the medical department; though it cannot be imputed to Mr. Hill, the late Surgeon, who was bound by contract to attend at the Hulks three times a week only, be the state of the convicts what it might.

Note. Mr. Hill’s Contract appears to have been 70l. per ann. for attendance (at four miles distance), and medicine.

By the interposition of Mr. Graham, we understand that Mr. Hill was superseded some weeks ago; and another gentleman appointed, with whose assiduity and attention we have every reason to be fully satisfied. He brought before us various complaints against the Contractor, particularly stating to us, that for five days past he had been unable to procure

317 IN LANGSTON HARBOUR.

the quantity of milk allowed, and extremely necessary for the Hospital-ward, although he had made repeated applications for it: he stated also the greatest irregularity in the supply of provisions both to the Ship and the Hospital, and that the quality of the meat allotted to the Sick was frequently so bad, as to afford the greatest foundation for reproof. In the presence of the Surgeon we begged to inspect the wine, both white and red, that is used for the sick on-board. The former (though called Malaga, and probably paid for as such by Government) proved a very indifferent sample of Raisin wine; and the latter, a nauseous and most unwholesome composition.

With regard to the discipline on-board the La Fortunee, we have reason to believe it considerably improved. We do not hear of any recent meeting or insurrection among the prisoners; or find among the returns, that any of them have lately been shot.

We observe, however, that lighter irons are in some cases used on-board the Captivity than in this ship. There may be a reason for this distinction; but we are ignorant of it.

On the whole, though we do not pretend to trace the prevalence of disease, and its fatal consequences on-board this ship, to any one particular source, we believe them to have been much increased by a general want of accommodation, a total inattention to common cleanliness, great neglect in the medical

---

J o o

department, and very reprehensible abuses in the articles of subsistence.

To

STATE OF THE CONVICTS

To this report we feel it unnecessary to add any general observations, as we understand that it is in the contemplation of Government to remove the convicts from La Fortunee, and place them under the new regulation on-board a vessel now in great forwardness for that purpose. But we think we shall not discharge our duty, if we omitted to state our opinion, that many unnecessary hardships have been incurred by the convicts, in consequence of a fatal error in the original contract, by which the appointment of the Captain, Surgeon, and other officers on-board, are dependant solely on the nomination of the contractor. Deuce it arises, that those officers, who, if the servants of Government, would be a

check cn the contractor and on each other, have one common inteiest, and are deterred from making any compffiints, let what will arise, mom the apprehension of. losing their appointments. We submit also that the Captain and Surgeons of the receiving and hospital ships should be furnished with proper books tc enter the daily occurrences that arise, and to specify with greater regularity the diseases and deaths of those who are placed under their charge. We also think It highly expedient that a .table of Regulations jfhoold be drawn out (both respecting the dut)

of the officers and convicts), and affixed to some con 'picucus part of each ship, and read at certain star:ci ‘hues to the whole ship’s company.

Wc ha. c only further to remark, that we lament the u, p-ai proportion of persons on-board the Hulks gcnmCly, who from age, infirmity, accident, or

incurabie

Tin LANGSTON HARBOUR. $1$

incurable disease, are wholly incapable of work; and we suggest it to the consideration of the Secretary of State, whether it might not be adviseable that persons of this description should be removed to some place exclusively appropriated to their reception. While they continue where they are, they are constantly exposed to insult and injury from their companions; they occasion great additional trouble; and occupy the place of those who might be employed with effect in the public service.

Henry St. John Mildmay, James Neild.

y 2

(320)

A TABLE of Diet expended by the Convicts onboard the Captivity Hulk, daily.

Each mess is for six men, with eight pounds of bread and nine pints of small- beer every day.

Every day, one pound five ounces of barley and five ounces of oatmeal made into soup or burgou.

Four days in the week, six pounds of beef.

Three days in the week, three pounds of cheese.

On the four meat days, twelve ounces of barley and five ounces of oatmeal made into soup or burgou.

On the cheese days, one pound six ounces of oatmeal made into soup or burgou.

One of the Convicts is deputed daily by the others to see their provisions weighed and delivered out.

Daily Allowance issued to the SICK Prisoners.

Each Mess is for six Men, with six pounds of

bread every day.

Breakfast and Supper.

Three pounds eight ounces of rice and six pints of

milk.

Dinner.

Three pounds of Mutton, and six pounds of vegetables.

Wine, Tea, Sugar, Sago, Pearl Barley, Flour, Fruit7 and Porter, issued according to the Surgeon s orders.

Breakfast.

Dinner.

Supper.

(321)

THE cause of the foregoing Examination and Re* port originated from the following letter; which, being laid before the Right Honourable Lord Pelham, his Lordship was pleased to send orders to Portsmouth and Langston Harbours, to furnish Sir Henry St. John Mildmay, Baronet (who volunteered his services), and myself, with every information we should require.

<c SIR, Portsea, Feb, 24, 1802.

te Yesterday I brought from Bodmin and ce Launceston gaols eleven male convicts, and put *6 them on board the La Fortunee Hulk, in Langston Harbour.

“ I inquired after ten others, which I put there “ the 14th of September, 1800. Six of them are <c dead, and the other four look very poorly. Up* “ wards of one hundred and twenty died in 1801; ie and forty since this year began. I inquired of i(several of the convicts as to the .treatment they <c received:they say they have chiefly died for “ want of provision; they have not sufficient food to t(live on; indeed, they now say these that are here “ are half-starved. It appears to me, that want of “ food is the chief cause of so many deaths; for, (i were they carried off by any putrid or infections e(distemper, would it not affect the officers on board ? 6£ These appear in perfect health, while the convict 6C looks pale and half-starved.

6(I have

322 LETTER FROM MR. CHAPPLE.

“ I have often reported to sundry gentlemen these tc many years past; but the evil is not remedied. It will be a humane act would any gentleman of Note examine the convicts in person, by having them before him, separate from the presence of the overseers, &c. The late worthy Mr. Howard was deceived when he visited: the overseers, &c. being present, the convicts were afraid to complain. I am,

“Sir,

“Your very obedient servant,

“JAMES CHAPPLE,

“Keeper of the New Prisons, Bodmin.

“To James Neild, Esq.

“Chelsea.“

It is with great pleasure I remark, that during our examination of the convicts we had the most decided proofs of this worthy Gaoler Mr. Chappie's great humanity and tenderness towards his prisoners.

(323)

A List of the Number of Debtors discharged and relieved from the 31st March 1801, to the 31st March 1802; distinguishing each Prison in Alphabetical Order.

Appleby - 15

---

Brought up 373

Aylesbury 2 Ilchester .... 27

B iv eon.. 11 Ipswich .... 15

Bedford . 6' Kingston upon Hull B3

Bodmin 5 King’s Bench 38

Bury St. Edmunds 5 Leicester County Gaol . 20

Bristol .... 3 Lancaster Castle

Bath .... 1 Lincoln Castle 2

Borough Compter 83 Kenton late Basford 1

Carlisle 14 Ludgate .... 24

Carmarthen.. 11 Mai l-too'' . 29

Chelmsford 3 Monmouth.. 6

Coventry.. 3 Montgomery.. 2

Chester.. 3 Morpeth .... i

Cambridge.. 2 Marshalsea 33

Cardiff.. 2 Northampton.. 1 t

Cardigan.. 1 Norwich .... 1

Canterbury.. j Newgate .... 283

Cold Bath Fields 7 Oxford Castle7

Dolgelly.. 7 Ousebridge . X

Dorchester.. 5 Presteign .... 1

Derby .... 3 Poultry .... 69

Durham.. ✓ . 2 Reading .... 26

[Dover .... 1 Rothwell .... 6

i Exeter . 20 llutJieii .... 0* A

IFiMierton Anger 5 Richmond 3

1 Fleet .... 73 Stafford .... \%

.GiMpur Street Compter 44 SYcwsbury 0

Hereford *3 Surrcv 0 >untv Gaol 39

Huntingdon 6 To thill Fields.. 19

Itor.ham 6 Warwick .... 14

Hertford 5 Worcester .... U

Haverfordwest . 2

Halifax 1

Carried up 373

Winchester - 6

York Castle - 8

[Total] 1125

(325)

A LIST

OF

GENERAL AND ANNUAL

BENEFACTIONS,

FROM THE INSTITUTION IN FEBRUARY, TO THE 31st OF MARCH, 1802.

Those marked with an [*] are Annual Benefactor Governors, and of the Committee.

Those marked with an [**] Governors for Life.

£. s. d.

ANONYMOUS, including all Sums under Ten Guineas, being paid from persons unknown, under various initial Letters 5 yet have been particularly advertised, and remain in the Society’s books, with the dates when they were received.... 5869 o 5 Anonymous, per P.

6 Benefactions .... 625 o o Anonymous, by Isaac Walker, Esq. three

Benefactions...320 o o

Anonymous, several small sums under this .signature.....34 7 o

A. £. s. d. *Thc Trustees of Bp.

Andrews’s Charity,

17 Benef......1880 o o

His Grace the Duke of

St. Alban’s......3 3 o

Andrews, Sir Jos. Bart.

deceased, 13 Benef. 27 6 o

Andrews, James Pettit,

Esq. deceased, nine

Benefactions...., 18 18 Q

A Friend to the Marquis of Hertford (Viee-lTesident), by his Lordship, 4 Benef 115 o o A Lady, deceased, by

Lord Romney....5 3 o

A Lady unknown, - by

R. Robinson.....«; o o

A Lady, II. E.....10 10 o

A Lady, a well-wisher 10 o o Z A Lady

(326)

£ 5. d.

A Lady unknown, two

Benef. by E. Smith O 0

Ansell, Mr. James, qBenel r.8 8 0

Atwick, Mr. Wm. sen. 6 6 0

Akerman, Mr. deceased,

1 2 Benefactions .... 28 / 0

* Aubrey, Mory, Fsq. 21 O O

* Agulter, Paul, Esc}.

24. Benefactions .... 50 88

A. the Overplus of aTa-

vern- reckoning 0 12 9

A ]cw 1 1 0

* Adderley, Tho. FEq.

deceased, 28 Benef. 59 *9 0

* Allin, E/Esq. 13 Benef. 27 6 0

A.Z. 3 Benefactions, by

Mr. Nelme 60 0 0

Ashbourne, Laurence,

Es(l; 5 5 c

A Nobleman, C. C. 10 10 c

A Nobleman 5 5 0

A Lady, by the lion.

Captain Walsingham,

deceased 8 8 0

A Person unknown, by

W. W 20 0 0

A Person in the Country,

i>yj-v 5 5 0

A Person unknown, by

Miss Conyers 3 3 0

A Wager, concerning an

Fllection 3 6

A Wager between T. P.

and T. C..• 60 0 0

A Wager, by I. D. ... 5 5 0

A. T. by Messrs. Dorrien 12 12 0

Aston, II011.Mr. Justice,

deceased 5 5 0

Adam, Mr. Thomas .. 5 5 0

Adams, Mr. Cain, dec. 4 4 0

An Acknowledgement to

an Officer of the Navy

at Dover 5 5 0

A r, Mrs 20 0 0

A Lady, by Mr.Mineliin 5 5 0

A* C 11, Mrs. dec. 4 4 0

A Lady unknown, by J .T. 4 4 0

£. s. 11.

A. bytheRev.Mr.L’He-

rondoll, deceased .... 10 00

A Collection by Servants

in a Family..... 4 80

Ashton, Mrs. Elizabeth 330 Ameti, put into the Letter-box ........ 3 30

Astley, Mr. a Benefit at «•

his Amphitheatre ... 20 too

A. D........21 00

A. H. 3 Benefactions 120 o o A. C. St. Thomas’s, two

Benefactions.....80 00

Alderman, Deputy, and Common Council, of Earringdon Within 23 11 o A Lady, by the Rev. Dr.

Trotter, 4 Bencf. ... 21 00

A Lady, by the Rev. Anthony Natt, ii Belief. 46 18 o A Lady unknown, by

Mr. Crane...... 2 20

Arnold, Mr....... 2 20

Acland, Rev. John,

10Benefactions .... 23 13 o

A. FI. by the Treasurer 20 00

A. Fb by Mr. Nelme ico o o A Clergyman. — Four Benefactionsunderthis Signature .... 12 120

A young Clergyman ... 1 10

A Clergyman in Derby-shire, by Messrs. Wilkinson, of Chesterfield 330

A Forfeit....... 2 20

A Heart blessed with

Humanity....... 3 30

A young Lady unknown 30 00

* Angerstein, J. J. Esq.

14 Benefactions .... 29 20

A Lady, per ditto ... 2 20

A.FL S. for Relief of poor Debtors, per Biddulph

and Co.......10 00

A Lady, for Christ’s Sake 2 20

' x"x\Antrobus, Edm. Esq. 31 00

A Gentleman from India 36 00

A Ge n-

0~i

A Gentleman, per Treasurer ........ 2

A London Tradesman’s one Year’s Profits, by Messrs. BlandnndCo. 383 Adrian, A. Esquire, by Messrs. Dorrien and

Co......... 1

A. B. by Treasurer,

8 Benefactions .... 800 A. B. by Dorrien and Co. r0 A.B. byBiddulph, Cocks/

and Co....... ioo

A. B. by Ditto, ezBenef. 46 A.B. by Mr. Nelme.. 100 A.B by Secretary .... 100 A. B. put into the Better-box, 3 Benefactions 300 A. B. \6 Benefactions under this Signature, from 151. to 20 B each

per Secretary....290

ATravelicr, by Treasurer 1 o A Philanthropist, by Mr.

Dornford.......too

A Lady, by the Bishop of Peterborough, 3 Benefactions ....... 9

A Lady unknown, by the Rev. Mr. Filmer,

7 Benefactions....14

A Stranger....... 5

Aisley, Stephen, Plstj.

7 Benefactions....14

A. B. W. by Biddulph,

Cocks, and Co....60

A Lady, by H. Bank 2

A Roman Catholic, put into the Letter-box 1

Three Christmas Gifts 19 A New Year’s Gift ... 4

A Gift........ 2

A Birth Day Gift.... 5

A Christmas Offering 1

An Easter O tie ring .... 1

Adams, James, Esq. by Dorrien and Co. ... 2

•s ', d. 2 o

o o o o

o o 4 o o o o o

o O

10 o o o

o o

9 0

14 o

5 0

14 o

2 O

1 O J4 o

2 O

0 O

1 O

1 O

2 O

S. (I.

I

6

10

O o

o

2

Abdy, Mr. per Ransom

and Co....... o

Abbot, John Farr, Plsq.

deceased....... 5 5

Abbot, Charles, Esq.

M. P. 3 Benef....13 13

A Lady, by Thomas Edwards Freeman, Esc]. 20 Another small Acknowledgement of a great

many received....10

A Lady, by Mr. Newton 2 A. T. U. per Messrs.

Moares.......20 10 o

A Lady, and Persons unknown, 52 Benefactions, under these Signatures, amounting to 362 16 o Addison, G. Esq. per

Hoares.......50 o

A Friend, 3 Benef. .... 4 14 A Friend, by the Rev.

T. Thirlwall, 3 Benef. 30 00

Addington, M r s. pc r B i d -

dulph and Co..... 3 3

A Well-wisher...... 4 4

A. X. Y........21 o

* Aust, George, Esq.

4 Benefactions.... 6 60

Abertin, Peter, Esq. per Dorrien......... 5

* Askew, Adam, 4 Benef. 8

* Askew, Arden, Esq.

per Ditto, two Benefactions ..... 3

Aufrere, G. Esq. dec. 2

Aufrere, Mrs...... 2

Atkinson, Jasper, Esq.

perT reasurer, 4 Benef. 4 Atkinson, Tho. Esq. 5 Ambeck, Maria, 3Benef. 25 Allen, Thomas, Esq. per

Treasurer...... i

Adair, Dr. James EE

3 Benefactions.... 4

Adams, John, Esq. 3 Benefactions .......10

o

8

3

2

o

4 o o

o

6

o

o

o

o

o

o

o

o

o

o

o

I o

4 0

A. B.

Z 2

(3*8)

£ d-

A. B. the poor Woman’s

Mite........ o 70

A Widow’s Mite, by

E. R. 5 Belief.... 2120

A Mite........ j 10

A Donation, per Bid-

dulph, Cocks, and Co. 100 o o

A Sinner....... 00

A Sinner’s Offering .... j 00 A Lieutenant in the Navy 2 00

A Token of Gratitude from Part of the Company of his Majesty’s

Gun-brig Asp.... o 14 o

Atkinson, H. W. per

Treasurer ...... 2 20

* Auberton, Mr. sBenef. b 60

Ashburnham, Rt. Hon.

Lady Elizabeth, Mitigation of an Offence committed by Thomas Templeman.... j 50

A Lady’s Wager.... o 26

A Quaker (so called).. 50 00

A Lady, for sittings in

her Opera Box.... 6 60

Aribort. per Treasurer 10 00

Aminadab........20 00

B.

Buckinghamshire, Earl of

deceased, 4 Benef....S6 00 *Bristol, Earl of .... 20 00

Breadalbane, Earl of...10 10 o Bathurst, Earl, per Bid-

dulph and Co....... 50

Bulkley, Rt. Hon. Lord,

4 Benefactions.... 8 80

* Belgrave, Lord Vise. 20 00

Balgonie, Lord Viscount 2 20

Butler, Rev. Weeden, 2

Benefactions.... 4 40

Benson, Richard, Esq.

per Treasurer.... 6 60

' Bradney, Mrs. per Fuller and Co.....’.... 2 20

Bonham, Francis, Esq.

deceased .......100 o o

£. , . d.

* Beecher, Richard, Esq.

6 Benefactions....38 17 o

* Broad head, Theo. Hen.

Esc]. 26 Benef. .... 136 120 *Brassey, Nathaniel, Esq. 21 00

* Bradney, John, Esc],

16 Benefactions....58 16 o

Bradshaigh, Lady.... 1 10

Brere, Mrs....... 1 10

Birch, Rev. Mr.ofHands-

worth....... r 10

Bridgman, Mr...... 1 10

Beauchamp, Lawrence,

Esq. 2 Benef, .... 2 20

* Browne, Is. Hawkins,

Esq. 27 Benefactions 147 o o

* Bayntum, Will. Esq. 5 5 ©

* Biddulph, Cocks, and Ridge, Messrs. 16 Benefactions ...... j2 10 o

Beaufort, her Grace the

Duchess of.....*5 jo

Buckinghamshire, Countess of, 2 Benef. .... 10 10 o Bunbrtry, Sir Charles, Bt. 10 10 o Blackstone, Hon. Mr.

Justice, deceased, live

Benefactions....13 13 o

Bouverie, lion. Charlotte, 2 Benef. .... 4 40

Boscawen. Hon. Mrs.

6 Benefactions .... 26 16 o

Burgoyne, Lady F. per

Messrs. Hoares .... 1 1 o

Barnard, John, Esq. deceased, 4 Benef. ....21 00

Boldero, John, Esq. deceased, 6 Benef. ... 98 11 6

Buller, John, Esq....10 10 o

Barber, John, Esq. ... 2 20

Briggs, Mr. Samuel, six

Benefactions .... 12 120

Bacon, the Rev. E... 3 30

Barker, Thomas, Esq. of

Lyndon, Rutlandshire 5 50

Baiker, Thomas, Esq.

and Family...... 5 30

Boyle *

C 3

£ s. d.

Boyle, Miss 2 2 0

Boys, Lieut. Gov 1 T 0

* Bullock, Mr 0 0

B.Y .* -H 0 0

Bond, John, Esq. dec. 5 5 0

Boddinglon, Tho. Esq. 0 0

Burrell, M 3 3 0

Broke, Philip, Esq c j 5 0

Bond, Edward. Esq. live

Benef. per Secretary IO 10 0

Bacon, Rem Nicholas.. 5 5 0

Brown, Miss, deceased 2 n 0

Busby, Mr Henry, dec. 4 a 0

Bromley Mr. John .... 8 8 0

Bevan, Mr. Edward, de-

ceased, 4 Benef. At / 4 0

Bannister, Mrs. deceased 1 1 0

* Bosanquet, Henry,

Esq 21 0 0

•*Bulle.r, James, Esq.

M. P. 2 Benefactions 35 10 0

Barnett, Benjamin, Esq.

per Dorrien and Co. 5 5 0

Brewster, Mrs. Clapton r 1 0

* Brewster, M1*. Willia m,

t3 Benefactions 27 6 0

Bluett, Bucklaud Nut-

comb. Esq 0 2 0

Bassett, Francis, Esq.

3 Benefactions 20 10 0

Basset, Lady, per Sir R.o-

bert Herries and Co. 10 10 0

Bassett, Rev. John, five

Benefactions 10 10 0

Bentlmm, Rev. Thomas,

two Benefactions.... 4 4 0

Brewman, Mr. 'Thomas 4 4 0

Baynes, Rev. Mr. of

Stonham Aspnll 0 a /> 0 0

Bowles, Mr. part of a

Legacy of iool. per Annum, left by the will of Mr. Henry Al-nut, for the MarsliaEe.a 148 2 2

Borens, John, Esq.... 3 50

Barrow, Mr. by Mr.

Gough........ 2 90

9)

£• s-

Bonus, Mr....... 1 1 o

Bridge, Thomas, Esq. 3 50

- *Bkikeney, Edward,

Esq. Executor to the late Sir Robot Rich,

Bart, three Bencf. ... 60 00

Bouvevie, Hoa, .Mrs. dec. 2 o o '’-Burgess, Hugh, Esq. by Treasurer, 16 Benefactions ...... 3600 o o

•Bon 1 thee, .T osep! i , Esq.

jo Benetiictions...45 40

Batt, John Thomas, Esq.

perHoares..... 3 30

* Brereton, Charles Tre-

lawny, Esq. 13 Benef. 68 50

B. by the Rev. Dr. Gaskin ...... 5 50

Brown, James, Esq. ... 10 00

- Boone, Thomas, Esq.

11 Benefactions .... 36 15 o *Boone, Charles, Esq.

3 Benefactions....13 00

Burgess, Sir J. Bland,

by Secretary..... 10 ro o

Balshaw, Mr....... 2 20

Benevolo, by Messrs.

Hoa res....... 1 jo

Benevolus, 2 Belief. .... 2 20

Benevolence , ...... 2 00

Hiaril, Bercher, Esq. deceased, 6 B e n efa c t i 0 n s.

(See L cgacie.J....21 go

Balance from a Subscrip-. tion for a Burial, by

J. R........ o 60

Barham. Thomas Foster,

Esq. 3 Bcr.of..... 6 60

Berkeley. George Monk,

Esq. by Henry Grim-

stone, Esq........ 1 10

Bliss, Mr. Then ns, by

Mr. George Cstbelt 1 t o

Eowerbank, Rev. Ed. 2 20

Brunton, 'sirs. E. 8 Benef. 16 160

-Blades, Mr. John, ten

Benefactions.......21 00

B riant.

(33°)

£ S. d.

Briant, Renny, E?q. ... 2 20

Bath, lion. Lady, 6 Benefactions ...... 31 10 o

Betty, Mr. per Messrs.

Goldney....... 2 20

Brook, Rev. Shaw .... 10 00

Brickwood, John, Esq.

per Treasurer....10 10 o

Banks, Mrs. per Ditto 1 10

Brewer, Mrs. Mary, per James Forbes, Esq.two

Benefactions ..... 2 20

Boyle, Lady Jane.... 3 30

* Battye, J. Esq....25 00

* Bree, Martin, Esq. three

Benefactions ..... 6 60

B. P. by James Johnson,

Esq. for discontinuing

a Prosecution..... 2 10 o

Boldero, Mrs....... 1 10

Butler, the Rev. Mr.

Dorsetshire ...... 0106

£• s% d.

Barclay, David, Esq. two

Benefactions..... 10 00

Bellow, C. K. Esq. two

Benefactions..... 2 20

Biner, William, Esq. .. 2 20

Rird, Mr. Thomas.... 1 10

Brickwood, Nathaniel,

Esq. per Treasurer 2 20

Brickwood, Lawrence,

Esq. per do...... 5 5 0

Brodie, Alex. E^q. M. P.

per A. Hamilton, Esq. 5 00

Bowness, Major...... 5 5 0

Barnard, James, Esq. an Acknowledgement for

an Assault....... 0106

Rev. Charles Blackstone 1 10

Barrow, Mr. per Secretary ........ 1 10

Bathoniensis, per Treasurer ........10 00

Bibo ...... 10 00

Collections at sundry Churches, c9’c. viz.

£ d.

1772 Charlotte street and Bedford Chapels ...... 81 1 o

Charlotte Street Chapel ...... 31 9 o

3773 Saint Mary, Somerset ...... 8 3 o

Queen Street Chapel ...... 36 13 7

1774 St. Saviour’s and St. John’s......... 134 19 o

3775 The Rev. Mr. Hevries’s Meeting in the Old Jewry 38 3 6

St. Faul's, Covent Garden ...... 18 o o

St. Mary, Whitechapel ...... 21 7 o

Brompton Chapel ...... 28 13 o

St. George's, Hanover Square ...... 82 x 7 /j

3776 St. George’s, Southwark ...... 25 9 x

Greenwich Church ...... 83 3 o

Si. James’s, Piccadilly ...... 38 14 o

Hampstead Church ...... 72 16 6

Richmond Ditto ...... 102 3 9

1777 St. Bride’s, Meet Street ...... 19 1 4

Hackney Church ...... 63 13 3

Tavistock Chapel ...... 31 to o

St. George’s, Hanover Square ...... 39 7 9

Clapham Church ...... 47 7

Kingston Ditto ...... A1) 10 7

Edmonton

(331)

1778

Islington Ditto

Leyton Ditto

St. Giles’s in the Fields

779

South Audley Chapel

1780

1781

1782 17 8d

1787

St. Martin and St. Philip, Birmingham

Richmond Church

St. Saviour’s, Southwark

1794

1797

Cornwallis, Rev. Dr.

C.

the Most rehbishop

c

s.

d.

of Canterbury, r/rc. 30

Chester, the Right Rev. Lord Bishop of, per Dorricn and Co.... 2

o o

2 Benefactions.. Clive, Lady Edward

£• .s. </.

29 10 0

3 9 M- 0

51 10 3

82 2 2

73 12 0

24 8 0 O

22 18 6

21 1 0

n 10 8

14 5 7

56 12 5

48 7 9

47 1 0

21 0 0

40 0 0

88 4 6

23 *3 6

23 10 9

J4 12 8

J9 10 2

56 0 0

26 12 1

88 8 0

AO 1; 0

j6 6 4

S J9 9

53 13 7i

27 j<5 7

3i 1 S£

5 6 6

22 0 P

16 *3 io‘-

43 2

43 7 K-

8 7 6

9 jO 8

23 18 3 / 4 *

49 0 0

£• s. d.

r 20 0 0

2S, 21 0 0

• 2 2 0

2 2 0

e- ro 10 0

CarLer,

(33*)

£• s• «•

t barter, Mr. Henry, three

Benedictions .... 6 6 o

Coleman, George, Esq.

deceased, 3 Belief. 3 5 13' o Craven, Rev. John, four

Benefactions .... 11 1.1 o

Cripps, Mrs. at Bath 21 00

Crawley, Mr. 6 Belief. 12 120 Couesworth, Mrs. Ann 20 00

* Champ, Mr. cle.... 21 00

Conquest, Mr. B. Birmingham...... 2 20

Conyers, Mr. Rowland,

3 Benefactions .... 6 60

Clye. Mr. Noah, 9Benefactions ....... 18 18 o

Crewe, John, Esq of Bolesworth, Cheshire.

(See Legacies.) .... 5 5 0

Casyl Francis, Esq. two

Benefactions 4 4 0

Char. San 5 5 0

Cockayne, Rev. Dr., 2 2 0

Curtis, Mr. Alderman 10 10 0

Mrs. Mary .... 1 1 0

Caldwell, William, Esq.

per Fuller 5 5 0

Caldwell, Andrew, Esq.

per Secretary . 2 2 0

Cocks, Rev. Philip, de-

ceased, 3 Benefactions 9 9 0

C.C 5° 0 0

Clio, by Mr. Clark, three

Benefactions 6 6 0

Campbell, John, Esq. 5 5 0

Clutterbuck, Mrs.atBath 10 10 ©

Cotton, Charles 1 1 0

— Thomas 1 1 0

Cox, Mrs 1 1 0

Cox, Mrs. Elizabeth.. 2 2 0

Code, Mrs. Eleanor, two

Benefactions 4 4 0

C. K 21 0 0

* Charlcwood, Rev. C. B.

1 2 Benefactions 25 4 0

Conyers, Miss, per hi ess.

Hoarcs 2 2 0

£. s. (L

Charity, 3 Benef...... 3 3 o '

Cash by the retail Dealers in Salt........ 1 143

C.M. per Sec. 4 Belief. 101 10 o

* Chamness, Janies, Esq.

11 Benefactions.... 57 15 o Crainner, Mrs. iiBcnef. 23 20

* Cottrell, John, Esq.

11 Benefactions....23 20

Coltinan, William-Joseph, Esc]....... 1 10

^ Currie, William, Esq.

M. P. 7 Benef....72 10 a

C. R. and C.R. W. two

Benef. by Col. Rooke 20 00

Clementina, 9Belief. 9 90

Crowder, Mr. J. S Benef.

per Secretary.... 8 80

Corbett, R. Esq. per

Fullers........ 2 20

* Corbett, Peter, Esq. per

Ditto, 6 Belief....12 12, 0

Cornwall, John, jun.Esq. 3 50

Clarke, Mr. William, per Secretary, three Benefactions, ........ 3 30

Coxe, Daniel, Esq. three

Benefactions 3 n n 0 3

Costa, Mendez, da, Esq. 1 1 0

Hamd. Mendez

de, Esq. per Fullers 1 1 O

* Crofts, Mr. Daniel ... 2 2 O

Cotton, Sir Charles, Bart.

per Treasurer 2 2 O

Cock, Mr. Alexander 1 I O

Clive, Henry, Esq 1 J O

Creekc, Captain R. R. N. 1 I O

Colpoys, Adm. Sir John,

K. B. 3 Benef. 10 2 O

* Coney, Bicknell, Esq.

2 Benefactions 10 IO O

Crouch, Mrs. of Drury-

lane Theatre 10 O O

Card Money, by W... 1 I O

* Cumming, George, Esq.

2 Benef 4 4 0

Carlos 10 0 0

* Crawsha)9

(333)

£. s. d.

* Cra\vsliay, Richard,

Esq. Cyfarthfa, near

Cardiff....... 21 o o

C. W. and S. D. per Sec. 20 00

Chalmers, Mrs...... o 10 6

* Cadogan, Right Hon.

Earl, 3 Benet..... 6 60

* Clarke, William.Esq. 100 o o Cator, Thomas, Esq. 1 10

Cow per, Henry, Esq. by Mr. Roberts....... 1 1 o

' D.

£. s. d.

Dawes, Mr.Tlio.iqBenef. 30 jo o Dodwell, Miss, per Treas. 1 1 o

Dean, Mrs. Ann, of Bath,

four Benefactions ... 29 15 o

D. D. byMr.Nelme...200 o o Dorset, Mr. Beuj. dec. 2 20

Dn Cane, Peter, Esq. 3 50

* DuPrc Pore her, Jus.Esq.

live Benefactions .... 26 3 0 DuPre, Mrs. twoBenef. 10 jo o

Dawson, Mr...... 3 00

---- William, Esq.

two Benefactions ... 8 80

^ Devonshire, his Grace

the Duke of..... 10 10 o

Devonshire, her Grace

the Duchess of.... 10 10 o

Dunstanville, Lord de 10 o o D’Aeth, Lady, 2 Benef. 4 40

Dimsdale, Hon. Baron,

deceased, 22 Benef. 62 jo o Dean or Exeter, 2 Benef. 10 10 o Dennis, Sir Peter, dec. 3 3 0

Delme, John, Esq. dec. 36 16 o Darker, John, Esq. deceased, j 1 Benef....63 00

Deborah (a Lady) four

Benefactions....103 o o

Dodd, Rev. Dr. deceased,

two Benefactions.... 4 40

Dodd, Rev. Richard ... 1 10

* Dornford, Josiah, Esq.

21 Benefactions .... 59 18 o Dornford, Thomas, Esq.

four Benefactions ... 4 40

Dimsdale, Thomas, Esq.

seven Benefactions .. -4 3 0

D. E. Hon 2 2 0

Derby, Mrs Abi-ah .... 5 3 0

Dickenson, Charles, Esq. 2 2 0

Dechanne, Mr. Constant 2 2 0

Dolben, j.E. Esq. fifteen

Benefactions 36 D 0

* Darrell, Andrew, Esq. 0 2 0

* Edward, Esq.

13 Benefactions V 6 0

Davidson, James, Esq. JO 0 0

---- William, Esq.

Bath....... i j o

Desse, Sir William .... 2 20

Davis, Mr. Francis .... 2 20

Dixon, Mr. Richard, dec. 2 14 6

---- Dehancy, lEq. 430

Devaynes, William, Esq. 1 10

Dnkin, llev. Dr. 3 Benef. 660

D11 Bellamy, Mr.... 7 70

Dawson, Christoph. Esq. 7 70

Dobree, Samuel, Esq. 2 20

---- Peter, Esq.... 2 20

Duncan, Alexander, Esq.

six Benef. deceased. ... 12 120 Drummond, George, Esq.

deceased, two Benef. 10 10' o Dorrien, Magens, Esq. 3 30

Dower, Mr. Robert, per

Secretary....... 2 20

^ Drummond, John, Esq.

13 Benefactions....68 30

' *Drummond, A.B. Esq.

11 Benefactions....37 1^ o

Dickson. Mrs. 12 Benef. 33 4 o

Dyer, Mr. Robert.... 1 10

Draper, Daniel, Esq. ... 10 00

Douglass, Mrs. per Ransom and Co....... j 10

Dorville, John, Esq. ... 2 20

Durnford, James, Esq. 1 10

Drewe, Rev. Edward,

Broad Hem bury .... 1 ] o

Douglass, Lady Eliz. six

Benefactions ....26 it o

A a Denne,

(334)

£ 5. d.

Dennr, Cornelius, Esq.

three Benefactions.. 15 15 0

Drinkwater, Lieut.-Col. 2 n 0

Drouly, Col. for the late

Sir Robert Rich 10 IO 0

* Dennison, Win. Esq. 20 O 0

Down, Richard, Esq... 5 5 0

Diana, per Treasurer.. JO 0 0

£. s. d.

13°

5 °

E.

* F, ardle)r, Eight. Hon.

Lord, live Belief..

Eliot, Hon. Edward Jam.

deceased, four Benef. 24 14 o *E. J. Esq. St. Thomas’s, 19 Benef....760 o o Edmonstoii, Lady, deceased, 17 Benef....35 14 o Edmonston, Sir Archibald, Bart. 5 Benef. 10 100 Evelyn, Sidney, M. L. of Upton Grey, Hants,

deceased........ 6 60

Edwards, Mr. Joseph 2 2 o

* EUisto», Rev. Dr. sixteen Benefactions .... , 33 120 *Eylcs, John, Esq. seventeen Benef...... 35 15 0

* Eycr, Charles, Esq. deceased, 13 Benef. ... 31 10 o

Exchequer Jury...... 17 20

Ellis, Mr. Charles, dec. 50 o o E. N. four Benef. .... 144 c o Evans, Mr. two Belief. 4 40

.Elliott, John, Esq. two

Benefactions ...... 6 60

E. B. by the Rev. Anthony Xatt....... 3

E. B. rreston-hall, by the Rev. Mr. Crulnp .... 3 Evelyn, fames, E.->q. two

Be m fictions ..... 6

K. per Messrs. Homes, two Bt nei’actions .... 70 Vltv a.11, Ralph, Esq. per H. Hammond, Esq. six

21 00

5

10

Earle, WiHiam-Benson,

Esq. deceased..... 2

"Edrnonstone, Charles,

Esq. four Benef.... 8

Elliott, William-Elliott,

Esq. per Treasurer..

F.

Finch, Right Hon. Lady Charlotte, perTreas. Folkestone, Lord-Vise.

two Benef....... :o 10 o

Fuller, William, Esq.

26 Benefactions, dec. 54 12 o '‘Faden, Mr. William,

26 Benefactions....38 16 o

Fitzgerald, Lady Mary,

two Benefactions .... 10 10 o

F. R. S. deceased.... 52

Fairfax, Thomas, Esq.

of Tadeaster, 3 Benef.

The Stewards of the Grand Feast of free and accepted Masons,

1773, being the Balance of the Treasurer’s Accounts.... 4

FU-Ion. Mr.......20

Freeman, John, Esq. per Treasurer, two Benef. 7 *-Freeman, Tliomas-Edwards, Esq. for the Gaols of Gloucester, Worcester, and War-

-wiek........300

* Freeman, Thomas-Ed-wards. Esq. seven Benefactions for the ge-

13 3 0

4

o

7

o o

neral Purposes U 17 0

3 0 FeilwickjN. Esq 10 0 0

Fletcher, Walter, Esq.

11 0 two Benefactions.. 10 10 0

Foster, John, Esq. three

0 0 Benefactions 15 15 0

Franco, Raphael, Esq.

deceased 3 3 0

7 0 Fnnter.Mr. Charles, dec. 4 4 0

Four-

(335)

s.

Fourdrinier, Mr. Charles 440 F; returned Fart of the

Money paid him .... 3 50

* Fa rrer, James, Esq. four

Benefactions .....21 00

Free, Nathaniel, Esq. io 00

* Free, John, Esq. live

Benefactions......25 15 o

* Free, Peter, Elsq. ... 21 00

A Fine, by the Hands of

James Robson, Esq. 2 20

F.W. with warm Wishes towards the Society’s Success, 3 Better. ... 6 60

Follett, Rev. John, by Ashmore, Keeling, and

Co......... 2 20

Finch, Miss, per Treas. 1 10

* Forbes, James, Esq. nine

Benefactions.... 18 18 o

* Forbes, Charles, Esq.

two Benefactions .... 3 30

Fines from 32 Hackney-

Coachmen ...... 12 15 o

Ditto a Chairman, per

Mr. Thresher..... o 50

Ditto by G. W..... 1 00

Found in the Letter-box, various small Sums, 3-

mounting to .....54 174

Found at the Star, Richmond ........ 1 00

F. G. per Messrs. Gold-

neys........ 10 00

FeartijS. Esq. per Fuller 2 20

Fawcett, Rev. Thomas,

per Fuller ..... 2 20

* French, George, Esq.

live Benefactions .... 10 10 o

Foley, Richard, Esq. Haverfordwest, per Mr.

Welchman....... & 20

Foljambe, F. F. Esq.’... 2 20

Fine for assaulting a Person in St. James’s-street on the King’s

O

Birth-day....... 1 00

£. s. (I

Fatima, perTreasurer ...20 o o Flora, per Ditto....20 00

(1

Gloucester, her Royal Highness the Duchess

of, two Belief. ....70 00

* Grafton, his Grace the

Duke of, two Benef. 30 10 o Godolphin, the Right

Hon. the Earl of, dec. ioo o o Guildford, the Right Hon.

theEarlof/fec.qBenef. 94 10 o *Gwydir, Rt.Hon. Ld. 21 00

Griffin, Lady...... 2 20

Galloway, Lady E)o\v-

ager Frances, 5 Benef. 21 00

Grass well, Mr. 3 Benef. 10 10 o Gardiner, Wm. Esq. dec. 84 00

Gordon, Mr. William 2 20

G. O. for the Debtors in

Newgate....... $ 5 0

Godding, H. D...... o 10

Greville, Mrs. Hester, four Benefactions ... 11 11 o Gosling, Robert, Esq. 2 20

Giles, Daniel, Esq. ... 5 50

Grand Jury for the City and Liberty of Westminster ........ $ 30

Grand Jury of the'City

of London....... 3 01

Greville, Mr. 2 Benef. 6 60

Gardiner, Mrs...... 15 ij o

G. R. by Mr. Nolme ... 20 00

Golf, Mr. Jonathan, deceased, 8 Benef.... 8 80

Golf, Mr.Mary, deceased,

nine Benefactions ... 7 70

Greenwood, Wm. Esq. 4 4 o

Gooiding, Mr...... 2 20

* ‘G. W. /. by Mr.

Grasswell, 21 Benef. 385 4 6

G. No. 48, 34, and 68,

per Treasurer.... 17 17 o

Grignon, Mrs. 3 Belief. 2 20

Glover, Richard, Esq. 2 20

a 4 2 Gqddard,

(33«)

£ »• d.

Goddard, IMr. Stephen 2 20

Grant, Hon. Mr..... 1 10

Grimston, Henry, Esq.

j-l Benefactions .... 14 14 o Gustrill, Mrs. Jane, deceased, eight Benefactions, per Treas. 160 00

Gunstone, Henry, Esq. 1 10

Grindlay, Rea. Dr. six

Benefactions .... 12 11 o

Graham, Mr. John .... 1 10

* Gunning, Sir Robert,

Barf, four Benef. .... So 00 Godwin, George, -Esq. 10 00

* Gregg, Francis, Esq. six

Bene! actions....12 12 o

Greig, John, Esq. three

Benefactions .... 3 30

Greig, Lucy, three Benefactions ....... 3 30

Gambier, J. Esq....to 00

Gambia-, Vice-Admiral 10 00 Green, William, Esq. per

Secretary...... 1 10

"Galloway, James, Esq.

five Benefactions .... 10 to o*Goodman, Geo. Esq.

of Leeds, 5 Belief.... 10 10 o Glynn, Lady Carr, 2 Be-

nefactions ..... 4 40

Grant, Henry, Esq. ... 2 00

Gay, Nicholas, Esq.... 2 20

Gentlemen of the School

of Eloquence....1.0 160

Gratiana, two Benefactions, per Treasurer 20 00

H.

Hertford, the most Noble Marquis of, deceased,

1; Benefactions .... 3 to 00

11 a r d wi c k o, t h e R t. Hon. the Earl of, deceased.,

six Benefactions....80 100

Huntingdon, the Right J Ion. the Countess u-f, deceased........ 5 5°

£• s. d.

* Herries, Sir Robert,

and Co. 27 Belief. 92 13 o

* Merries, Robert, Esq.

three Benef...... 6 6 o

Hamilton, Sir Bobert,

deceased, 11 Belief. 23 20

Hamilton, Lady, twenty-

three Benef......48 60

* Iloare, Henry, Esq.and

Co.........23 20

* H 0 well, J. Zephaniah,

Esq.........50 00

Heigh way, Richard, Esq.

eight Benefactions 47 5 0

* Howard, Lord.....20 00

Howard, John, Esq. dec. 21 0 o

Henderson, John, Esq.

six Benefactions .... 12 120 Houlston, William, Esq.

per Secretary.... 1 10

Harman, John, Esq. 30 00

Harman, Mrs..... 10 00

Hill, Mr. Wiliiain, deceased, 7 Benef. .... 14 14 o Hull, Mr.Thomas, seven

Benefactions.... 14 14 o

Haynes, Mr. John, deceased, 18 Benef. ... 37 160

Homo........ 1 i o

Harene, Mrs...... 1 10

Hewet, Rev. Mr.... 1 10

Iiayes, Mrs Marianne, deceased, seven Benefactions. (SeeLegacies.) 8 80

Haughton, James, Esq. 10 to o Hawley, Henry, Esq. two

Benefactions.....to 10 o

Hockley, Miss ..... 5 50

Hawkins, Laac, Esq.deceased, 18 Benef... 180 00

H. M.........20 00

Hill, Dr. deceased.... 2 20

Hood, Mr. Lowen, two

Benefactions..... 4 40

Hankey, Rev. Mr..... 2 20

Hodgson, Peter, Esq. 5 50

Hawley, Dr....... 10 10 o

Hoi-

(337)

£• s. cl.

Holcombe, Rev.Mr. two

Bene:.'.Cions .... 4 40

Tin nc, Alex. Esq.... 2 20

* Hall, B'-chard, Esq. being act ummatedln-ttrest of a Donation from the Wib of Ed w.

Baxter, dec. 6 Belief. 430 0 0

H'gymon, Wm. Esq.

four Belief; .. Lions.. 8 8 0

IIi gilisoi , Edmend, Esq.

(Laeoted 2 2 0

Holt, Richard, Esq. dec. 5 5 0

Efigden, Mr O 2 0

Hatsell, Miss Bet. six

Benefactions 6 6 0

ILe. s, Mrs. Marg. dec. 2 2 0

Human ns 1 r 0

Hudson, Mr 0 10 6

Elayes, Air. Christopher

James, 2 Belief 4 4 0

Hooper Caotain 2 2 0

Heatheoie, Air Bhomas 2 2 0

Mis,; 2 2 0

Heyward, 1. Lomas, Esq.

two Benefactions .... 2 0 0

IE erne, Mr 1 1 0

He' ward, Mr. of We-

t boring ton 1 1 0

El 01 d e 11, M r. B i r m i; ) g 11 a m 10 10 0

Hughes, Rev. Lewis, de-

ceased, 11 Belief. ... 23 3 0

Hughes, Rev. Thomas 5 5 0

Eleberden, Dr. William 10 0 0

Hardcastle, Joseph, Esq. 10 TO 0

* I[ammersley, Tho. Esq 20 0 0

#*Muntcr, Robert, Esq. 5S 1 2 0

Hunter, Rob. jun. Esq.

three Belief 3 3 0

* Ehnme, Dr. Joseph, of

Halifax, 4 Benrf. .... 16 l6 0

Elvde, Mrs. 20 Benef. 82 J9 0

Mes.ws. Ilardcaslle and

Crosbie 10 0 0

Holder, Mrs. per Trcas.

! wo Ban factions .... 8 8 0

Holder, J. II. l'Eq S 5 0

£. s. d.

Hoare and Co........ 5 50

Elawkins, Mrs. by Lieti-tenaiit-Col. Trelaw-

ney ...... 2 2 o

EIav*r.'is. Mr. Jos. 2 Ben. 2 20

-x'Hamilton, Arch. Esq.

13 Benefactions .... 35 *4 0 Hearn len, Mr. D. P.

12^ Benefactions .... 11 96

Heaniden, Mrs. Sarah,

two Benefactions .... o 40 Hale, Lieut.-Gen. Bd.

decanted x 8 Belief. ... 17 17 o

Hale, Mrs. R...... 2 20

Hataoll, John, Esq. four

Benefactions.. ...M l7 e

Hopkins, Mr. William,

per Sec. 4 Belief .... 12 12 o Hampson, Mr.perTreas. 2 20

TIodgsou, Miss, toBenef. 21 00

He.ylin, Air. John.... 1 x o

Hodgkinson, Rev. H.

four Benefactions ... 4 40

El. pcrDorrien...... n 10

Hall lfa a, S a v ille, E s q. t wo

Benefactions .... 10 00

* BIarper, It. I. Esq. four

Benefactions ..... 7 70

Horten, Eusebius, Elsq. 330 -Horton, S. Esq. 6 Ben. 10 to o '* 11 a i i b urton, Da v i d, Eso.

three Benefactions ... 15 150 "^•Harris, Quarles, Esq.

three Benefactions 120 00

Hnggitt, l<ev. John, per Treasurer....... 1 xo

* Holland, Richard, Esq.

three Benefactions.. 6 60

Hcftkeih, 1-atly Harriet,

three Benefactions .., 6 60

Ham moil d /I'll oma s, Esq.

per Treasurer, dec. .. 1 10

H, S ...... 12 10 6

Hannan, Edward, Esq. 10 10 o

E

I, B, by Mr. Nelnie 100 00

Jordon,

(33&)

c 5. d.

Jordon, Mr 9 9 0

J ebb, Mrs 2 2 0

Johnson, Henry, Esq. 2 2 0

Jukes, Mr. Joseph .... 2 2 0

Ibbetson. Rev. Dr 2 2 0

I. G. by Rob. Child, Esq 20 0 0

I. P. three Benefactions 1 20 0 0

Jones, Sir William .... 5 5 0

I. B. a Balance received

of EC 4 0 1

Jacomb, Henry, Esq. dec. 6 6 0

Ives, William, Esq. nine

Benefactions 23 2 0

Ives, E. Esq. per Ditto 1 1 0

Cornel ins. Esq. live

Benefactions 7 7 0

I. G.’s Reward for find-

ing a Watch 1 1 0

I.G. 4 Benef. perTreas. 20 0 0

I. I. per Messrs. Hoares 5° 0 0

Jeffery, George, Esq. 5 5 0

3.S. Mrs. by the late Bp.

of Peterborough .... 0 .1 3 0

Joyce, Mrs. 4 Benef. .. 80 0 0

Jefterys and Jones, Mess nine Benefactions

I. P. Lincoln’s Inn, four

Benefactions..... i

J n Us u mSocietat is ab I. <!>. 2

Je»ncr, Rev Dr. 13 Ben. 13 Johnson, Joseph. Esq. by Dr. Hawes....... 2

J. X........ 100

Jacques, Mr.9Belief. 48 J. II. an old Country '

Clergyman......

James, .Mr. Joseph, jun.

- — HougliU n, Esq. Jackson, Mr of Bath...

J. D. for W. Cr ....13

Jenkins, Richard, Esq.

r (Bend act ions .... 1 ro *.Iohnson, Win. Esq. 30

* Y:.

18 18 O

o

o

o

o

o

o

Q O

5 °

5 0

b 2

James, Esq.

-5°

three. Benefactions Johnson, Godschall, Esq. 3 --Mill's. A.ortlake 2

Johnston, Mrs...... 2

---- Miss.....

Instead of a Dinner at the Crown and Anchor

J-J.........

Jones, Mrs. A. 2 Benef.

---- Air.......

* Jones, Mr. Charles, two

I. S. G. per Fuller and

Chatteris......

* Idle, George, Esq. four

Jury Fees for Causes in the Marshalsea Court

King, Right H011 Lord, deceased, 5 Benef. ...Kinsborough, Rt. Hon.

I.ord.......

* "* Kerry, Right Hon.

Earl of, 7 Benef. ...Kensall, Richard, Esq. Kilgour, Mr. Alex. dec. Knightly, Rev. Sir John, Bart. 6 Benef. *Kenipenf’elt, A. Esq.

Kelli am, Robert, lefactio

by Mr.

17 Benefactions....1 r,

Kneller, Mrs Grass well .

o o

3 0 2 o

lien of

Keate, Mrs......

Knigluley, Mrs. per Ja

Mnsgrave, Esq....

* Kirknian, John, Es<]. 73

2 2 0

2 2 0

0 10 6

s° 0 0

4 1 0

1 1 0

4 4 0

5 5 0

100 0 0

20 0 0

8 8 0

2 2 Q

0 \6 6

5o 10 0

10 0 0

140 0 0

3 3 0

4 4 0

56 11 0

3 So 0 0

' l5 0

1 1 0

1 3 1 3 0

1 0

. 14 14 0

. 2 2 0

. 1 1 0

• 75 0 0

Res-

(339)

£• s. d.

Kestevan, Mr James, two

Benefactions..... 2 20

* Kindersley, N. E. Esq.

two Benefactions ... 15 j o *Knatchbull, Wyndham, Esq.......21 00

L.

Leicester, Earl, per Bid-

dulph, Cocks, and Co. $ 50

Terrick, the Right Rev.

Dr. late Bishop of London, three Benef. ... 30 00

Lowth, the Right Rev.

Dr. Bishop of London, deceased, 2 Benef. ... 20 10 o LandafF, the Right Rev.

Bishop of...... 5 50

Lincoln, the Right Rev.

Bishop of...... 5 50

Lushington, Sir Stephen,

Bart, two Benefactions ....... 13 15 o

L.K. Hon. by Treasurer,

five Benefactions.... 3 30

L. W. Lady.......10 10 o

Lady H. \V....... 10 10 o

Lady M. W....... 10 10 o

Lady A. B....... 2 20

Lelieup, Peter, jun. Esq.

deceased......100 00

Leheup, Mrs. 2 Benef. 60 o o

---- S....... 2 20

---- Mrs. Jane .... 15 15 0

Lockart, Miss...... 2 20

Lowe, Mr. James.... 4 40

The Old Club at LeTel-

licurs .......22 10

Lazzaroni Club at the Thatched-Ilouse Tavern, by their President, T. G. Fothergill,

Esq........37 16 c

London Coffee-House 13 19 o

L. A. R.......20 00

Lowry and Newton,

Messrs

£• s. d.

Li ttlehales.J. Baker, Esq. 2 1 0

Law, Ewan, Esq. fifteen

Benefactions 47 5 0

Lock, Mr. James 2 2 0

L.W. Clericus, 12 Benef. 36 0

Lean, Mr. Alexander 8 8 0

Leigh, Mrs. 4 Benef. 8 8 0

Levviss, Miss, 3 Benef. 6 6 0

Lodge of Cousins, Fleet-

Street 5 9 6

Levy, Mr 5 5 0

Liddle, Miss, by T. F. .5 0 0

Londinensis 7 4 0

Lettsom, Dr. 10 Benef. 29 8 0

Leroux, j. Esq 1 1 0

From an old Lady, by the Hands of the Fa-

mily of the Bees .... 1 1 0

Le Fevre, Charles Shaw,

Esq. M. P. 3 Benef. 6 6 0

* Lock, William, Esq.

11 Benefactions .... 23 r\ 0

Luttrell, Francis Fownes,

Esq 2 2 0

Lownds, Thomas, Esq.

two Benefactions.. L5 5 0

Lowndes, Richard, Esq.

three Benefactions.. 15 0 0

Lownds, Milnes, Esq. 5 0 0

* Lind, F. Esq. 11 Benef. 55 *3 0

Lloyd, Mrs. per Mr. Wil-

lis 2 2 0

* Lane, Mr. Tho. seven

Benefactions 14 14 0

Longman, Mrs 1 1 0

Llaw, Matthew, Esq. per

Hoars 1 1 0

Langham, Sir William,

Bart. 3 Benefactions 20 0 0

Leicester, Ralph, Esq. 5 5 0

Lewis, Thomas, Esq. Luck hurst, Mr. J. twenty- 2 2 0

five Benefactions.. 2 10 0

Lillington, Mr 1 1 0

Lewis, James, Esq 2 0 0

Lington, Mr 1 1 0

Leigh, Rev. Thomas 5 < 0

990

(340)

Legacies received.

£. s, rf.

Tv.l(* v (; (.-v., 208 o o

Ml. D .'A 14:/ ...... ICO o O

Yir. a Marta Tomlinson ...... 0 0

John E, q ...... io° 0 0

A i.ad> ...... 5° o o

Mr. J')‘in Btsoham ...... 5° 0 0

Mr. K- K.-rt Cioe ...... 5° 0 0

Mv?.. Aii-; Knu'ne ...... 100 o o

Lady Cr-harire Noel ...... 10 0 0

William Congreve, Esq ...... uoo o o

Mrs. Alary Wylde, by Franca Bawdier, I>q.... 'oo o o

Executors of Aits. Elbaueth Gnmyns, by rhe Rev. Doctor

Markham, applied 3oMy to the Gaol at Whitechapel 100 o o

Executrix of Wiilini i Crewe, Esq. annual, during the Life

of Mrs. Foss, novo deceased ...... 24 16 o

Arrears due from Ditto ...... 5° 0 0

John Darker, Also ...... 5° 0 0

Airs. Cutts, by Mr. Scott ...... 57 o o

The Rev. Isaac Cooper., Eye, Suffolk......... 5° 0 0

Executors of John Barnard, Esq. ...... 300 o o

Executrixes of L. D. Nelme, Esq. late Secretary to this

Society ...... 10 0 0

Executors of Thomas Tolson, Esq ...... 200 o o

Executors of John Boldero, i sq... ......... 50 o o

Executors of James Harley, fsq ...... 200 o o

Executor of John Corbyn, tsq. six‘Benefactions ..... 52 7 o

Executors of Mr. Olivers ...... 100 o o

Executor of Charlewjod Lawton, Esq ...... 20 o o

Executor’s of Airs. Culling ...... 200 o o

The Administratrixesoi Lillie Aynscombe, Esq. deceased,

by his Direction, per Henry Slabbing, fsq.... 20 o o

Fxecutor of Mrs. Alariannc Haves ...... 20 o o

Executors of Mrs. Gastril ...... 200 o o

Executors of Lady Grant. A Legacy of 500/. with Interest ...... 561 11 4

Ditto, a Second Benefaction.

Executors of John Howard, Esq ...... 30 o o

Executors of William Pooley, Esq ...... 100 o o

Executor of John Baynard, Esq ...... roooo o o

Executors ot George Stainbridge, Lsq. being (lie Produce

of zoo I. three per Cent. Consols......... 1^ 7 6

Dividends due to Ditto ...... '26 13 6

Executors of John Sw eet, Esq ...... 30 o o

Elxccutors of Nathaniel George Poire, Esq....... 21 o o

Executrix of the late Mrs. Rebecca Lee, 300/. Stock four

per Cents. Value ...... 246 o o

Ex-

(34i)

£. s. d.

Executor of Charles Selwin, Esq ...... ico o o

Executors of Lady Grant, a second Benefaction, Produce

of 250/. Stock, three per Cents ...... 173 18 3

Executors of Bercher Baril, Esq ...... 100 o o

Executor of Edward Heylyn, Esq ...... ro 10 o

Executors of Thomas Lane, Esq. 3c /. Stamp Duty deducted ...... 47 o o

Executrix of Mrs. Knapton, 10/. and Stamp Duty, .... 10 3 2

Executors of Ralph Kirkham, Esq. deducting Stamp

Duty on 1000/ ...... 940 o o

Executors of Air. Charles Belliard......... 23 o o

Executors of Airs. Schank ...... 400 o o

Executors of William Shambrooke, Esq........300 o o

Executors of Wilson Fearson, Esq. deducting Stamp Duty 47 o o

Executors of William Fuller, Esq. produce of 200/.

three per Cent. Consols ...... in o o

Dividends on Ditto ...... 6 -o o

Executrix of John Peto Debeil, Esq......... 10 o o

Legacies in Expectancy; which, depending on Contingencies, cannot yet be ascertained.

Thomas Gardner, Esq. late of Hampstead, in the County of Middlesex.

Rev. Win. Scott, late of Ipswich, in the County of Suffolk.

William Scullard, Esq. late of St. Giles, Camberwell, in the County of Suny.

Archibald Stewart, Esq. late of Alilc-end Old Town,

St. Dunstan’s, Stepney, in the County of Middlesex.

John Shambrook, Esq. late of Croydon, in the County of Surrey.

Airs. Margaret Squires, bequeathing the Residue of her Estate and Effects.

AI.

£. s. d.

* AIiddleton, Sir Charles,

Bart. Vice-President,

13 Benefactions .... 72 90

* AIaynard, Lord....21 00

Alann, Sir Horatio, Bart. 3 30

Meadows, Sir Sidney,

7 Benefactions, dec. 330 o o Aides worth, Hon. Wal. 10 00

AI. W. a Lady, by Lord

Rcrjiney ......100 00.

£ s. d.

Marsham, Hon. Airs.

23 Benefactions 74 11 0

Marlin, James, Esq... 5 5 0

Alauger, Joshua, Esq.

8 Benefactions 16 16 0

Alajor, Henry, Esq. dec.

four Benefactions.... 8 8

Alicklewaite, J. E«q.... 10 0 0

Michie, John, Esq... 1 1 0

Manship, John, Esq. 1 1 0

Moffat, James, Esq. ... 1 1 0

B D -f*. Marriott,

(343)

£. s. d.

Marriott, William, Esq.

six Rene I.-lotions .... 31 10 o Marriott. Dr. <5 Benef. xi 11 o

Marrioi, Rev. Dr.... 5 00

Marriott, Mr.......10 10 o

Molesworth, John, Esq.

two Benefactions .... 7 70

* Mason, Rev. Mr. by

Mr. Horsfield....21 00

M. F. Miss, by Mr. Gilbert, five Benefactions 75 o o Milm r, Lady....... 2 20

Miller, Mr. William ... 2 20

Mitchell, James, Esq.

two Benefactions ... 4 40

Mathias, James, Fsq. 3 5 0

Mawhood, Mrs. 3 Belief. 10 10 o Marsor.. Mr.Thomas, flfec. 15 15 o

Marson, Mr. John.... 2 20

Mills, William, Esq. 2 20

Mills, William, jun. Esq. 2 20

Mattocks, Mrs. 2 Benef. 3 30

Markham, Rev. Dr. dec. 4 40 Mannkigham, Dr, four

Benefactions.... 12 12 o

Morland, William, Esq. 10 00

Miller, Lady, pe; Ti ea-

surer, 18 Bi.nef. .... 37 16 o Marrissall, \. Fsq. ... 20 00

Mayor, John, Esq. seven

Benefactions ....61 10 o

Mangles, Robert, Esq.

deceased, 14 Benef. 29 80

Mangles, Messrs.9Bencf 18 18 o

Mitchell, Gilbert, Esq.

five Benefactions .... 32 100 M'Culloch, Henry Fus-

tach Esq 5 Benef. 10 10 o Matcham, Mrs. 4 Benef. 8 80

Mmgrove, Mr John ... 6 60

M. S. A Jev Lady .... 2 20

Merchant Taylors Company ........ 3 30

Museris Solomon, Esq. 2 20

Marntt, John, Esq. seven Benefactions .... 14 14 o Mello, Arnold, Esq. .... 5 30

£• s- < *

Malkin, T. Esq. 3 Benef. 12 12 o Malkin, William, Esq.

five Benefactions .... 10 10 o

Mite, the, for Christ’s

Sake........ 2 20

Mite, the Widow’s, for

Christ’s Sake.... 1 10

Marwood, Mr. William 1 10

Mathew, Frederick, Esq.

seven Benefactions 14 14 q Middleton, Nathaniel,

Esq. two Benef. .... 5 30

M. B. Mrs. by the Rev.

Mr. Babbs, 2 Benef. 10 10 o Moore, Lady, 13 Benef. 37 60

Moreton, Rev. William 10 o o Marshall, Rev. Edward

four Benefactions ... 8 80

* Marsh, John, Esq. Chichester, nine Benef. 18 180 Mansby, Robert, Esq.

seven Benefactions 14 14 o

Martin, Ambrose, Esq.

per Sec. two Benef. 4 40

Macdonald, Felix, Esq. 3 30

M'Cieland, Mr...... 2 20

Morris, Captain, Coldstream Guards..... 3 30

Morgan, Mr....... 2 20

Methold, Henry, Esq.

two Benefactions .... 10 30

Musgrave, James, Esq.

.six Benefactions.... 12 12 o

Musgrave, Mrs. 4 Benef. 440

March, Mrs....... 2 20

M. N.........40 00

M. E. A........20 00

Myself and Friends .... 3 00

Manning, Mr. George,

of Exeter, 2 Benef. 2 20

* Majoribanks, S. Esq.

per Secretary, 6Benef. 12 12 o Meyer, Mr. H. aBenef. 10 10 o Meyer, James, Esq. 21 00

Malcolm, Mr. Alex. 070 Martin, Henry, Esq.

two Benefactions ... 4 40

Martin,

(343)

£. 5. d.

* Martin, Matthew, Esq. 220

* *Miller, Sir John Riggs,

Bart........21 00

* Mildmay, Sir Henry St.

John, Bart. M. P. per

Treasurer...... 5 5°

Mildmay, Lady..... 5 5 0

Milner, George, Esq. 3 30

Morvina, per Treasurer 20 00

Mole, per Ditto....10 00

N.

Northumberland, His Grace the Duke of.

deceased, 4 Benef. ior o o Northumberland, Her Grace the Dutchess of,

deceased.......70 00

Nares, Hon, Mr. Justice, deceased, nine Benefactions ....... 52 11 o

Nodes, Mr. four Benef. 8 80

Neild, Mr. William,

deceased, 4 Benef. ... 29 80

* Neild, James, Esq.

Treasurer, 27 Benef. 56 14 a Nelme, Mr. deceased, late Secretary to this Society, 12 Benef. 25 40

Norman, James, Esq. 10 00

Norman, George, Esq. 10 10 o

Nettleton, Robert, Esq.

deceased.......10 10 o

Nash, Edwards, and

Petrie....... 10 10 o

Neale, Mr. Edward ... 2 12 6

Nowell, Rev. William,

two Benefactions.... 7 20

Newbury, Mr. Fran. jun. 2 20

Nailer, Mr....... 2 20

Noah, Daniel, and Job,

eight Benefactions ... 22 70

Noah, Job, and Cornelius 220

N. C. P. M......26 50

Noblemen and Gentlemen of the Sunday’s Club at the Thatched

£• s>

House Tavern, by

Thomas Dundas, Esq. 52 10 o Keep, Mr. Cornelias ... 2 20

Newton, John, Esq....10 o 0 No. 7, 23, 24, by Mr.

Willis....... 13 13 0

No. 50, 60, 60 G, 66,

and 99, per Treasurer 34 3 0

Nixon, Nicholas, Esq.

12 Benefactions....12 12 o

Norris, Mrs.......2 20

Neale, Mr. perTreasurer 10 00

* Nairne, Edward, Esq.

seven Benefactions 14 14 0 Nixon, Thomas, Esq. deceased, per Treasu-

rer, two Benef. .... 4 4 0

Numps, per Ditto....25 00

Nemo........ 10 00

Nab, per Ditto....20 00

O.

O. P. L. Rev. Dr....14 14

Osborn, Master.... o 10

O. A. L. S. S. D....25 4 o

Ord, Mr.......10 00

Overton, Henry, Esq.

deceased, 13 Benef. 13 13 0 Overton, Mrs. dec. ., . 1 10

Oliver, Mrs. two Benefactions, per Treasurer 20 00

Oakes, Mr........10 00

O’Brien, Dennis, Esq. 2 20

Omaney, Edward, Esq. 5 50

Olive, Jeremiah, Esq.

two Benefactions ... 4 40

Olive, Miss....... 4 40

Original Security Bank 3 10 o Old Noll, (Letter Box) 10 00

P.

* His Royal Highness PrinceWm. Frederick 21 00

* Pusey, Hon. Philip, Vice-Presid. twenty-seven Benefactions 138 13 o Pusey, Lady Lucy, three

Benefactions..... 15 15 o

B b 2 Peterborough,

o vo

(344)

£ s• d-

Peterborough, the Right

Rev. Lord Bishop of, deceased, 4 Benef. ... it 11 o Parson, John, Esq. six

Benefactions ..... T2 12 o

* Preston, James, Esq.

27 Benefactions....56 14 o

Pantheon, per Messrs.

Scotney and Co....50 c o

Pickering, Dan by, Esq.

deceased ....... 8 80

Parker, Mr. Charles ... 4 40

Paul, Onesiphorus, Esq. 3 30

Parish, Mrs. five Belief. 6 60

Philanthropes, by Mr.

Nelme ........ 1 1 o

Paroissien, Mr. J.... 0106

Pellot, Mr. T...... 1 10

Peters, Mr. John Moore 1 1 o

* Plumer, Thomas, Esq. 21 00

The Provost of Eton ... 3 30

Pearce, W. Esq......12 120

P. C.*....... 5 50

P- C. Esq........ 5 5°

* Pepperell, Sir William,

Bart, eight Benef. ... 16 16 o Persons unknown, by the

Rev. J. Craven .... 8 80

Proprietors of Coven t Garden Theatre, by a

Benefit Play.... 102 13 o

Ditto, a second Benefit 81 ir 6 Proprietors of Drury-lane 36 14 o ProprietorofBlackstone’s

Commentaries.... 2 10 o

Piggoti, Gran ado, Esq. 2 20

Pnlteney, Hon. Mrs. six

Benefactions .....30 10 o

Pulteney, Sir James, Bart. 5 5 o

Parish, Mrs....... 7 70

Philips, Joseph, Esq.... 440

Pinchbeck, Mr. Christopher, deceased .... 8 80

Parker, Mr. Robert .... 3 30

Fitter, Mr. Thomas ... 2 20

P.A ...... 21 00

Pooley, William, Esq. 10 10 o

£• s-

Paddy, Francis, Esq, 10 10 o Pcrkcs, Mr. Nathaniel 2 20

Battle.Thomas, Esq. eleven Benefactions ... 23 20

Plumtree, John, Esq. deceased, by Treasurer, five Benefactions .... 26 50

Powell, Mr. David, by the late Wm. Scnllard,

Esq. four Benef....11 n o

Pottinger, Richard, Esq.

deceased, five Benef. 11 no

* Paxton, Archibald, Esq.

perSecretary, 13 Benef. 31 10 o

* Paxton, William, Esq.

per Ditto, 13 Benef. 31 10 o

Poppleton, Mr. per Do. 2 20

Prideaux, John, Esq. returned Part of the Money paid him....... 1 10

Philo Charitas...... 1 10

* Primatt, Lacey, Esq.

11 Benefactions....23 20

Perry, Captain...... 1 10

Prisoner’s Friend.... o 10 6

* Pepys, Sir Wm. Weller,

Bart, it Benefactions 36 14 o

* Park, James Allen, Esq./

nine Benefactions ... 14 14 o

(Page, Mr.) C. P.... 1 10

Part of a Surplus from a Subscription Assembly, by Miss P ---- 330

Pott, John, Esq. deceased,

eight Benefactions ... 40 30 Produce of a Pool begun for a?iother Charitable

Institution ..... 1 ro

Part of a Legacy by a

Lady ........ 5 30

Part of a Legacy left for charitable Purposes, per Dorricn and Co. 10 00

* Phillipps, T.March, Esq.

five Benefactions .... 14 14 o Phillipps, Mrs. March.. 3 30

* Parks, Rd. Esq, 6Benef. 31 10 o

* Pitt,

(345)

£. s. d.

* Pitt, Tho. Esq. 2 Benef. 440 *Pearson, Wilson, iisq.

two Benef....... 4 20

Pell, James, esq. deceased, three Bench 80 10 o *Platt, Thomas, Esq. 20 00

Pinnoek, James, Esq.

three Benefactions ... 6 60

* Pigou, Robert, Esq.

two Benefactions .... 52 20

* Polhill, Charles, Esq.

two Benefactions .... 4 40

Procter and Brownlow 5 00

* Piit, Wm. Morton, Esq.

M. P........ 2 20

R.

Romney, the Right Hon.

Lord, deceased, late President of this Society, 19 Benefactions 99 15 o*Romney, the Right Hon.

Earl of, Presid. twenty-six Benefactions ... hi 60 ^Radnor, the Right Hon.

Earl of, Vice-President, 29 Benef.... ij6 So Rutland, his Grace the

Duke of....... 1 1 o

Rich, Sir Robert, Bart.

deceased, two Benef. 200 o o Radnor, Countess of.. 5 50

* Rainier, Vice-Admiral, eight Benef....80 90

Rossiter, Richard, Esq. 1 1 o

R. Lady........ 5 50

Rice, Mr. John, dec. 6 60

Rawlinson, Mr. John, deceased, 10 Benef. 21 00

R. B. Mrs....... 15 00

Ruspini, Mr....... 8 80

Reinhokl, Mr...... 3 30

Raikes, Thomas, Esq.

eight Benefactions ... 54 00

R. M ...... 12 o

Randolph, Dr. Thomas 8 80

Rennald, Miss Margaret 3 30

£ s. d.

Richardson, Mr. Richard 4 40

Rivington, Mr. deceased,

nine Benef. per Sec. 9 90

Rich, Mrs....... 2 20

Roocrts, John, Esq...' 1 1 o

Rural......... 2 ao

Reynell, Mr. two Benef. 4 40

R. S. by Secretary....100 o o

Russell, Mr. f award,

Maiyc-hill...... 2 20

Rayner, Robert, £.->q.

three Benefactions ...i<J 15 o Raw. tone, Mr. Thomas 2 20

Rowe, Mrs.......10 10 o

Rney, Mr. 2 Benef.... 2 20

Robin.son, L. Esq 50 00

* Robinson, R. Esq. nine

Benefactions .... 18 18 o

* Ro\vroff, T. Esq. six

Benefactions .....28 50

Reeve, Josh. itsq. two

Benefactions .....12 12 o

* Ra\v\son, Samuel, Esq.

Halifax, 2 Benef. ... 10 10 o

Rebecca........ 5 00

Runquest, P. A. Esq. i i o

Redhead, Thomas, Esq. 10 00

Row, William, per Treas- 2 20

Raper, C. C. Esq per Do. 2 20

Rolle, Lord, per Trea-

surer ........ 10 10 o

Rhoda, per Treasurer 10 00

S.

Shipbrook, the lit. Hon.

Earl of, late Vice-President, deceased, nine Benef. by Mr. Nelme 47 50

Stamford, the lit. Hon.

Earl, 8 Belief....10J 00

* Stanhope, the Right

Hon. Earl.......21 00

Smythe. the Right Hon.

Lord Chief Baron, dec. 36 15 o

Smythe, Lady...... 13 30

Scarsdale, tin Rt. H011.

Lord, five Benef. .... 14 140

Spades,

(34-6)

Sondes, the Right Hon.

Lord.........io o o

Sondes, Lady....... 5 3 o

Suffield, Lord...... 2 20

* Smith, Sir John, Bart.

two Benefactions .... 3 50

Sykes, Rev Sir Martin,

Bart O. I), deceased,

17 Benefactions .... 170 00

1 r 1

Sanderson, Sir James,

and Co........ 2 20

Selwin, Charles, Esq.

dec. (See Legacies.) 21 00

Sinnllbronk, Dr. dec. ... 5 00

Stevens, Mr John, deceased., seven Benef. 14 14 o

Stuflit, Miss ...... 1 xo

Si: s, John, Esq 2Renef. 4 40

SpiHer, John, Esq.... 2 20

Stables, John, Esq. ... x 10 Strahan, William, Esq. 440 S'Ciaii, Mr Charles,

deceased, y Benef. 18 18 o Stenart, Mr, George, three

Benefactions ..... 3 30

Sm:th, Mr. John, twelve

Benefactions.....240 o o

Sai xay, Mr. Robert, dec. 8 80

Societ; of Gemlcmen,

George and Vulture Tnvr; n, by Mr. Kutt 21 00

Sundry Gentlemen, by

A B........31 00

Sundry Gentlemen from

Ipswich.by Mr.Nehnc 4 16 o

---- Simpson, Elsq.

by Mr. Sunday, dec. 3 5 0 Singleton, Mrs. deceased,

25 Bt net a 1 tions.26 50

The«fid 1 rursciav sClub,

at St. Alban s Tavern 17 17 0

Spc-'ker John, Esq. dec. 100 0 0

Sc) ufz, Francis, Esq.

three ilencr.icti .ns 8 8 0

Schut'. Mrs. H. fear

, B> nefactions 4 4 0

Sutton, Mr. Daniel... 2 2 0

jr. s. d.

Stnkeley, William, Esq. 2 20

Salway, Richard, Esq.

deceased.......21 00

Salway, Mrs. Jane Constance, six Benef. ... 6 60

Scavoir Vivre Club ....32100 Snelling, Mrs. Ann. thir-

teenBenefactions .... 27 60

Saltonstall, Mrs. 2Benef. 5 30

---- Miss, fourteen

Benefactions .....43 1 o

Samford, Mrs. ..... 10 00

Scawen, James, Esq. dec. 3 30

From Stapleton’s.... 2 20

Snowdon, Mr. James ... 2 20

Sunderland, John, Esq. 2 20

Scullard, William, Esq. deceased, 10 Benefactions. (See Legacies) 21 00

Says, Mrs. four Benef. 2 20

Smith, Mr. Nat. by J. W. 2 20

Sympathy ........ 2 20

Si twill, F. Esq. by Treas. 2 20

* Serra, Isaac, Esq. per

Ditto ........21 00

•*S t r o u d, W i 11 i a m, E s q.

and Lady, 9Benef. 191 10 o Strode, Wm. Esq. Bath 330 S. M. a Lady, per Bid-

dulph, Cocks, and Co. 20 00

S. R. per Fenny Post... 10 o o Smith, Mr. Thomas... 2 20

* Smith, Thomas, Esq.

three Benefactions 130 o

Smith, Edward, Esq. per

Treasurer....... 2 20

St. Michel, Le Chevalier de. Balance of a

Verdict........ 3I24

Stratton, Samuel, Esq. 1 10

Stratton, George, Esq.

deceased.......13 50

* Stanhopc, Charles, Esq.

; o Benefactions .... 48 160 Shaip, Mr. John, of Dover, two Benef. .... 2 20

Sharp, Mr. jun. 2 Benef. 2 20

Small

(347)

£. s. d.

Small Return for many

received.......10 oo

* Smart, Richard, Esq.

four Benefactions ... 8 Bo

Spirling, Mr.......10 100

* Spraugcr, John, Esq 20 o o Scrope, put into the Letter-box ........ i i o

* Smith, Jos. Esq....a I o o

Squire, Mr. William ... 2 20

---- Mrs. Elizabeth,

ofThrapston...... 2 20

Shipman, Mrs. 4 Benef. 8 Bo Scot, David, hisq. per

Treasurer....... 10 io o

Sidgraves, James, Esq. of Preston, two Bene *

factions ....... 13 00

•---Sullivan, Esq. ... 2 20

Shifi’ner, Mrs. 4 Benef 12 70

---- Mrs. T..... 3 00

* Secker, Rev. George,

five Benefactions .... 8 20

Smith, Mrs. C...... 1 10

Snatched from the Law-

yer’s Gripe....... 5 3 0

•*Stockwell, John, Esq.

two Benefactions .... 6 60

Society of Brilliants, two

Benefactions ......32 o o

Society of Eccentrics ... -o 10 o

Stafford, Lady....... 3 30

* Sweedland, Colonel 2 20

S. G. per Fuller and Co. 20 00

T.

Talbot, the Right Hon.

Earl, deceased, 11 Benefactions ...... 57 15 0

Tufton, the Right Hon.

Lady Charlotte, three

Benefactions.....230 o o

Temple, Hon. Mrs.three

Benefactions......21 00

Taylor, Sir Robert, deceased, late Vice-President, two Benef, 23 20

£• s. d.

^ Trevor, Right Hon.

John, four Benef. ... 20 15 o

Trevor, Hon. Mrs.... 3 3 o 1

Thornton, John, Esq. deceased, late Vice-1 ’resident, 2 t Benef. ... 1 ^6 3 o

* *Thoi 11 tor., Henry, Esq.

two B nciactions .... 70 00

* 'vTi j o n t o n, K o b e r t, E s q 21 00

* Thornt<>n, Win. Esq.

two Benefactions .... 4 40

Thornton, Mr.i. H....10 10 o

* Thornton, Sam. Esq.

eight Bern factions ... 77 o Tilson, the ^’ev. George 6 60

Tutt, Mr. Theophilus 10 10 o Thompson, Ron. Esq.

18 Benefai. lions....37 13 o

Thomas, Benj. Esq. dec. 21 00

Tracy, Mrs Anna Maria,

eight Benefactions ...28 70

Two Gemlernen...... 2 20

Three Ladies and one

Gentleman....... 4 40

Two Ladies from Man-enesier-square, eleven

Benefactions .....29 19 o

Two Ladies of Dorsetshire, per E. F. Lut-

trdl, Esq....... < < o

T. C*n ........ 5 30

P. P. Esq. seven Benef.

by Mi Nelme.....87 no

Tamez, James, Esq. of

Moscow, two Benef. 43 o o Tyton, Arthui, Esq. 6 60

Trecothick, Mr. Alderman, deceased.....10 10 6

Ten of the Exchequer

Jurors, by M. 1)... 3 30

Two Middlesex Juries 8 00

Trotiran, Rob. Esq. jun. 1 10

Terqulian, Peter, Esq.

Part of a Fine from a C us tom-house Officer, for an illegal Seizure 4 40

Tatc>Mr. Alexander ... 2 20

T. C,

(343)

T. C. Travis, Robert, Esq... Turner, Mr. John, dec. Mrs £. s. d. T5 U 0 5 5 0 440 3 3 0 21 00

T R

T. G. I. for I. Philips,

Newsrate 15 00

* Taylor, James, Esq.

two Benefactions .... 21 00

Taylor, , Esq. per

Hamniersleys 2 20

Theakston and Welch-

man, 1 3 Benefactions 34 12 0

* B relawny. Rev. Sir

Harry, five Benef. 10 10 0

Thompson, A ndrevv. Esq IO 00

* Thomson, John, . Esq. 20 O O

* Tyr whitt, the Rev.

Robert, six Benef. 80 O 0

T.X 100 0 0

Thellusson, Peter, Esq.

deceased, - 3 Benef... 3 too

Turton, , Esq... 2 2 0

T, Messrs, and Mrs. G.

per Sir R. Herries and

Co 2 2 0

Townsend, James, Esq. I I O

Trigge, Mrs. 3 Benef. L5 lS 0

Sir Thomas, K..B. 5 5°

Taylor, Captain John, of

Madras 5 5 0

Thomson, Seth, Esq... 1 10

Tomlinson, Captain N.

Royal Navy 1 1 0

The Naked Truth 1 1 0

V.

Vere, Lord 5 5°

* Vyvyan, Rev. Sir Ca-

rew, Bart, six Benef. 20 10 0

Vansittart, Plon. Mrs.

seven Benefactions, per

Treasurer 14 14 0

^ Vansittart, Geo. Esq.

M. P. five Benef. ... io io o ^Vernon, J.G Esq. four

Benefactions..... 8 8 o

£- s- d-

Vincent, Lady St. four

Benefactions .... 8 8 o

Vincent, Francis, Esq.

deceased, eight Belief. 16 16 o Vcre, James, Esq. two

Benefactions .... 5 5 0

Udney, Robert, Esq. ... 5 5 ° Unsworth, Mr. James,

tu\ Benefactions .... 4 40

Vasaels, Mr .....- 7 3 o

Unknown, by Air.Nelme 103 10 o Unknown, by T. G. 100 00 Unknown, by Messrs.

Iloare and Co....io 00

Unknown, by Mr. Sisson 2 20

Unknown, by Mr. Wilson ........ 1 1 o

Unknown, by Dr Markham, dec....... 3 30

Unknown, byP.Perchard 3 30

Unknown, by the Rev.

John Craven ..... 1 10

Unknown, by Treasurer 10 00

Unknown, by C. Van

Mildert, Esq..... 2 20

Unknown, by Dr. Harwood ........ 5 30

Unknown, by Air. R.

Griffith .*..... 1 i o

Unknown, 22 Benefactions, under this Sig-

nature, amounting to 216 87

Unknown, in a Penny-post Letter, sent to the Treasurer at Chelsea ioooo o o

Vaillant, Air. 2 Belief. 2 20

Viner, William, Esq.

Gloucester....... 2 20

Votita Tabula, 5I. 5s. and for the Advertisement, 3s. 6d....... 3 10 6

Vere, ' Lucadou, and Co.

10 Benefactions....21 00

Van Alildert, Mr. C. deceased, 3 Bencf..... 3 30

Vibilia, per Treasurer 20 00 I Ycnoni, per Ditto .... 3 00

W. Wil-

w.

(349)

£. s. d.

* Willoughby de Broke,

Lord, 27 Bencf. .... 270 15 0

Walpole, Hon. H....20 00

Waldo, Sir Timothy, deceased, two Benef. ... 26 5 0

Wilder, Edward, Esq. deceased, late Vice-President, ic Beuef. 59 17 °

Winchester, the Right

Rev. the Bishop of, dec. 10 10 o Walsingham, Dowager

Lady, three Benef. 5 3 °

^ Windsor, Lady.....10 10 0

Waldegrave, Lady Laura 21 00

Willes, Hon. Mr. Justice, deceased.....5 5 0

W. W. a Lady, by Mr.

Nelme.......100 00

* W. W. Esq. 4 Benef.

by Jam. Mathias, Esq. 200 o o *Wyville, C. Esq. Executor to Sir Marmaduke Wyville......50 00

* Watson, Samuel, Esq.

four Benefactions ... 42 00

Wright, Mr. Henry, deceased, six Benef. ... 12 12 o

* Wilson, Wm. Esq. two

Benefactions.....30 00

W. B. Esq. deceased,

7 Benef. by Mr. Nelme 240 o o Wilder, Mrs. deceased 5 50

"Webster, Rev. Anthony 1 1 o

Windham, Mr. .... 1 10

W. G. trom the Dog 1 10

Wcer, Daniel, Esq. ... 1 1 o

Whitchurch, James, Esq.

deceased, 5 Benef....26 5 o

* Watson, Mr. William,

10 Benefactions....76 60

* Wilberforce, William,

Esq. 14 Benef....73 10 o

Willis, Rev. Sherlock .. 3 50

Williamson, Mr. Tho.

deceased, 2 Benef. ... 4 40

Whiston, John, Esq. dec. 3 3 O

£. s. d.

Waddington, Messrs, of

Nottingham..... 2 20

Wright, Martin, Esq. 5 5 0

Wilford, Mr. deceased 3 3 0

Walter, Mr.Role....jo 00

W. W........43 12 o

Wombwell, G. Esq. ... 7 7 0 Williams, Mr. Emanuel 440 Willis, Mr. James, deceased, 8 Benef. .... 16 16 o Westminster Charity ... 50 00

White, Mrs....... 2 20

* Walker, Isaac, Esq. six

Benefactions ....3 J. 10 o

W. H. two Benefactions,

by the Treasurer .... 100 00

Wells, Mr. George .... 2 20

Wrighten, Mrs. 3 Benef. 660

W. D. - 21 00

* WoolfF, Geo. Esq. six-

teenBenefactions.... 33 12 o

West, Jaques, Esq.... 2 20

Waddington, Benjamin,

Esq. two Benef....15 3 0

Ward, James, Esq. dec. by Mr. Grass well, three

Benefactions ..... 6 60

Ward, John, Esq. Executor of Ditto ..... 2 20

* Ditto, 10 Benefactions 21 00

Wilkes, Miss, seven Be-

faetions ...... 9 60

Ward, St. Andrew, Esq.

three Benefactions ... 3 3 0

•*Walter, John, Esq. eleven Benefactions .... 23 20

Walter, Mr. John.... 2 20

* Wedgwood and Byerly,

Messrs. 12 Benef. ... 63 00

Wingfield, Miss, per

Treasurer....... 3 30

Wegg, Mrs. per Hoares 1 10

Wansey, William, Esq. 5 5 0

W. H. of Newcastle, by

Castle, Powell, and Co. 50 00 Wiggiu, John, Esq. nine

Benefactions uer See. 9 90

(350)

Williams, Mr. James, two

Wood, Richard, Esq.

Hollin-hall, Yorkshire Willis, Mr. Hermitage-, bridge, per Treas.... W. H. dec.• to Benef. Wells, Mr. Jonah Smith, eight Benefactions*Walker, Mr. Charles,

Wallace, Mr. six Belief. *Woods, Edmund, Esq.

nine Benefactions...^Whitfield, John, Esq.

Wrangham, Rev. Fran. Webb, Miss, Gloucester Wilbraham, Randle, Esq Williams, Rev. W. oJ Waterbeach, per Trea-

Farringdon

of

Without Ward, Mr. Charles

a Prosecution

Wainwright, Mr. 3 Ben

---- — Mr. Wm

three Benefactions.. Wilson, Mrs. Mary.. "Ware, James, E^q... Waight, William, Esq

per Hoares....

* Watts, D. P. Esq... Warren, Augustus, Esq Waddington, Be min. Esq.....

s. d.

2 2 0

5 5 0

2 2 0

4 25 0 0

8 8.0

12 12 0

6 5 0

J7 17 0

21 0 0

2 2 0

2 2 0

• 5 f 5 0

3 t 1 3 0

1 1 0

• 5 > r 0 0

• 5 0 0

0 O 3 0

• 3 3 0

. 21 0 0

• 3 3 0

• 5 5 0

. 21 0 0

[• 1 1 0

0 0

Charles Watkins Williams, Esq. 5 *\Vansey, I. Esq. perScc. 2

X.

£. s. d.

• X 00 IOO

X. X. Z. ...

X. X. per Treasurer X. A. per Biddulph and

Co........100

Ximenes, Mr...... 1

X.Y.........co

X. X.X.X. a Bank-note,

per Penny-post ....10

"Y Y. 1. *... 1.... 1 oo

Y.

Yarmouth, Right Hon. Earl of (now Marquis of H e r tfor d), V i ce- President, six Benef....116 York, the Most Rev.

Archbishop of, 2 Ben. 20 York, Hon. Mr. 2 Benef. 20 Young, Hon. Dowager

Lady, 2 Benef....40

Young, Rev. Dr. Prebend of Westminster,

deceased ...... 2

Yeats, Mrs. (E. T. Y.) 5

Y. Z. per Mess. Hoares 50 *Yonge, Rev. Duke, four

Benefactions .... 8

Yonge, Rev. James, per

Hoare....... 3

Y. Y. Y........20

Z.

* Zenobio, Count.... 25 Zobell, II. H..... 1

5 ° 2 o

o o o o

1 o o o

o o o o

5 0

10 o 10 o

o o

2 O

5 0

o o 8 o

3 o o o

* Annual Benefactors may at any Time recommend Objects.

(351)

LIST

OF

HONORARY GOVERNORS.

Rev. Weeden Butler.

Sir William Oglander, Bart.

Right Hon. Sir Richard Heron, Bart.

Right Rev. Richard, Lord Bishop of Worcester.

Right Rev. Beilby, Lord Bishop of London.

Rev. Dr. Glasse.

Rev. Dr. Trotter.

Rev. Dr. Owen.

Rev. Dr. Laughton.

Rev. Dr. Burnaby.

Rev. Dr. Wynn.

Rev. Colin Milne.

Rev. ___ Field

Rev. John Wakefield.

Rev. J. C. Hubbard.

Rev. Mr. Peach.

Rev. Basil Wood.

Rev. Mr. Urwick.

Rev. Mr. Worthington.

Rev. Mr. Taylor.

Rev. Philip Crump.

Rev. John Venn.

The Hon. Henry Hobart.

T. Stallard Penoyre, Esq.

Jarvis Holland, Esq.

Mr. Alderman Skinner.

Mr. Alderman Curtis.

Mr. Alderman Cadell.

Mr. Jacomb.

James Hardie, Esq.

Andrew Lougnan, Esq.

Benjamin Way, Esq.

Thomas Platt, Esq.

Morgan Rice, Esq.

William Francis, Esq.

James Cooper, Esq.

Henry Stebbing, Esq.

Benjamin Hays, Esq.

Edward Leeds, Esq.

Joseph Leeds, Esq.

John Kensington, Esq.

J. P. Kensington, Esq.

George Marsh, Esq.

R. P. Baker, Esq.

David Sweet, Esq,

James Baril, Esq.

Lewis C. Dauberz, Esq.

Webb Marratt, Esq.

Thomas Lane, Esq.

(352)

Henry Poyntz Lane, Esq.

Thomas Malkin, Esq.

Mr. Hook.

Mr. Astley.

Joseph Lomas, Esq.

Mr. William Flower.

Mr. John Walford.

Thomas-Christopher Gardner, Esq.

William Kirkham, Esq.

Thomas Henshaw, Esq.

Richard Podmore, Esq.

Rev. Thomas Williamson.

Christopher Heneker, Esq.

John Mitchell, Esq.

Gilbert Jones, Esq.

Mr. Jasper Taylor.

Mr. Samuel Taylor,

George Field, Esq.

Abraham Field, Esq.

(353)

A SUMMARY VIEW OF THE MONEY ANNUALLY EXPENDED

BY THE

SOCIETY FOR THE DISCHARGE AND RELIEF

OF

PERSONS IMPRISONED for SMALL DEBTS,

From the Institution in 1772., to the 31st of March, 1802.

PRESIDENT.

The Right Hon. Earl of Romney.

VICE-PRESIDENTS.

The Right Hon. Earl Radnor.

The Most Noble Marquis of PIertford. The Hon. Philip Pusey.

Sir Charles Middleton, Bart.

JAMES NEILD, Esq . Treasurer.

R. Grasswell, Secretary.

1772 No. of Debtors Expended.

to discharged ami relieved. D d.

1774 ... ..1772 for the Sum of 4622 I

1775 - 996 .1724 1 Ii

1776 - 673 ... 1842 J3 3

1777 - 877 . ...1729 *9 7

1778 ... 779 ...1764 0 xi

1779 ... .. 8ll . ... 1611 *5 3

1780 - 628 . ... 1288 *7 1

1781 - 321 . ... 828 *5 9

1782 - 389 - 935 3 9

1783... 547 , .. 1121 12 0

1784... 535 ... 996 12 3

D D J7S.5

N0- of Debtors Expended,

discharged and relieved. im jm

1785 ...... 463 for the Sum of 904 9 1

1786 ...... 339 7*5 8 9

1787 ..... 343 719 9 *0

1788 ..... 710.......1566 4 2^-

1789 ..... 612.......1926 3 3 *

1790 ...... 798.......23°3 9 3

1791 ..... 666 .......1777 o 6

1792 ..... 460.......1297 14 7

1793 ..... 568.......1870 1 5

1794 ..... 540 ..... 1844. 14 9 T

1795 ..... 434.......1438 6 1

1796 ..... 481.......t 7 56 o 5

1797 ..... 490.......1606 15 o

1798 ..... 645.......2001 13 6

1799 ..... 578.......155314 5

1800 ..... 648........2106 16 10

1801 ..... 885 .......2870 4 4

1802 .... 1125 ........2607 11 1

w, 7063 Persons immediately

Who had 11399 Wives > J

and 3aS7i Children j benefited tor 49302/.

At an Annual General Court held the 7th of April, 1802, this Account was examined, agreed to, and signed by the President, Vice-President, and Members present.

Sir H. St. J.Mildmay, Earl. M. William Wiibcrfor.'c, Esq. INI. "W Moitoii T'iu, Esq. M.F. James Buller, Esq. _\i.P. ColoncI SvecMland.

Thomas Smith, Esq.

G. A. Kfinpenkit, Esq. James Allen Park, Esq.

T. E. Freeman, Esq.

5. J. G. Vernon. Esq.

J uh. He)mm Esq. RoSt-t P:qi.Esq. Joint Mn.ee, rove. Esq. Matti w Mai tin. Esq. Een| .min Barnett. Esq. Mr. Wei. lunar.

Mr. Charles Walker.

(355)

The average for the Debts of the before mentioned 19063 Debtors is 2l. 11s. 5½d. each; and for every Individual 15J. 6{-d.

These averages include every incidental expenditure attending the management and distributions of the charity.

It is probable, that the public benevolence has been dispensed to double the number of real objects, because the families of many creditors, being themselves in very necessitous circumstances, were also essentially benefited by the composition which they accepted instead of the debts due to them.

The Society never pay the whole debt• yet, to prevent future litigation, the creditors are required to give receipts in full for debt and costs.

From the great number of debtors discharged, compared with the small sums paid for each, it is manifest, that those poor manufacturers, seamen,

and servants, who have been the peculiar objects of the Society’s attention, are in the humblest rank of society; their debts were too small and too few to entitle them to the benefits derived from any of the acts hitherto calculated to relieve insolvent debtors; the Society have therefore generally compounded their debts, and paid their fees, after a writ of execution had issued.

(356)

The time of imprisonment may be months, or even years, before such objects can have relief from insolvent acts of parliament; it follows, therefore, that so long a confinement from their families and employments would be attended with consequences very fatal to those families, injurious to their employers, and particularly burthensome to their several parishes; who, whilst the husband is in prison, must relieve, and often maintain, the unhappy wife and offspring.

In some prisons, the distressed debtor is obliged to associate with felons, the depravity of whose morals, in every view, but too frequently influences those dispositions of the debtors with whom they converse; and who, until such destructive, fascinating connections, were not abandoned to vice, though perhaps imprudent.

To such debtors, the Society have ever shewn a fraternal regard, by rescuing them as soon as possible from an imprisonment infectious both to body and mind; thus preserving their families from becoming vagrants, or chargeable to the parish, and

restoring to manufactures, to agriculture and trade,

many laborious hands; who, with regard to their exertions in society, are ultimately the nerves, the strength, and riches of a nation; inasmuch, as their labour efficiently, though almost imperceptibly, contributes to the welfare of every individual in the superior orders of life.

(357)

Influenced by these clear principles, founded not only upon sound policy and true philanthropy, but, above all, upon the benevolent principles of genuine Christianity, the Society hope, by the bounty of the publick, to be enabled to persevere in relieving those debtors who may be found worthy, distressed, and friendless: Men, whose earnings, even when in employment, can often afford but a bare subsistence; but who, unemployed, must either contract debts, or fly with despondency to illicit means, as the only resource from starving.

It is a very material wish of the Society for Debtors, to diffuse the public liberality, as far as to extend to all the country gaols, where a prisoner is frequently confined at a distance of iB or 2.0 miles from his place of abode; the creditor, for want of importunity, forgets him; and the miserable being himself can receive no temporary relief from his family or his friends.

The MODE OF APPLICATION is by printed petition, to be had of the respective keepers, gratis, which the petitioner is directed to send, post-paid, to Craven-street; full information for filling up the-blanks is therein contained in the marginal notes.

To obtain benefit from this charity, each petitioner is obliged to name two reputable housekeepers, as vouchers for his integrity, sobriety, and industry; to whom the Society constantly refer their inquiries, and by this means preclude almost the possibility of imposition.

(358)

No debtor can be relieved a second time, unless it be evidently made appear that his confinement arises not from his own fault.

It is a fixed rule of the Society, never to pay more than a composition for any debts, wherein the lawyers’ bills are never included.

Plaintiffs must always be losers by prosecution for debt, though more or less so, according to their circumstances. This, the Society ever take into consideration; and it is a principal opjecr of their attention, to demonstrate to the lower class of people the exceeding folly of being so stimuUred by their passions, as to go to law with fellow-creatures, poor and miserable as themselves!

(359)

CIVIL IMPRISONMENT.

The following excellent observations were communicated to me by Joseph Burchell, Esq. one of the present worthy Deputy Sheriffs for the County of Middlesex, and who has taken unwearied pains on the subject.

The evils of an indiscriminate system must, in very many cases, bear hard. The extension of the Law of Arrests to simple contract-debts (although as a general rule wise and just) was an innovation on the antient law of the land, and for the security of creditors in a commercial country, is universally admitted to be indispensably necessary, yet, principally affecting the inferior class, the most helpless and numerous, by a continuance of imprisonment, for want of bail, consequent on practice, different from the course originally pursued, stands in need of legislative correction.

The true question is, can the evils be diminished without lessening the security of creditors ? if it can, necessity requires the interference of the Legislature; and, if a diminution of those evils would tend to augment such security, Justice seems to require a law not inconsistent with humanity.

The Law of Arrest may remain general for the protection of creditors, that every one may enjoy its

ON CIVIL IMPRISONMENT.

advantages; but when it is seen to fail of its expected or intended effect, as it will in all cases of poverty (and which may be the most numerous), the Law should interpose in favour of the honest, though unfortunate, by limiting the quantum of imprisonment^ under certain restrictions.

Therefore, for general security, let ap imprisoned debtor be considered as a party in delicto, suffering a punishment occasioned by his own misconduct; but let provisions be made to check the severity of the general rule, so as to temper the Law to purposes of humanity and substantial justice.

Let the Law of Arrest be open and free to every class of creditors, when the debt is of a certain amount *, and when the object of the Law, so far as respects coercion in payment, evidently fails, let the Law (allowing an attack on personal liberty for the particular purpose) by its own operation, rescue the debtor from imprisonment, by provisions, not counteracting, but acting, as exceptions to the general rule.

Let the person of the debtor be discharged, on evidence of insolvency, within a limited time, and the future property remain liable; and let these exceptions operate only in favour of the honest and unfortunate; and for this end, the creditor should trake out a case offraud, or of gross misconduct, to authorize a continuance of the imprisonment in the discretion of the Court, or of some tribunal to take

*Suppose not less than 30/.

ON CIVIL IMPRISONMENT. 361

cognizance of the charge; and, if necessary, to be aided by a jury*.

Thus, while the Law of Arrest is allowed without limitation, for the security of creditors, as a mean for enforcing payment, when it fails in that object, it shall, in the event of a continuance beyond the time limited by the general rule, be deemed a jpunishment for misconduct j and thus will Humanity be reconciled to Justice, the Innocent will in the end be separated from the Fraudulent, not by chance or caprice, but by the sure operation and effect of the Law.

---

* Suppose Three Commissioners.

The following Stanza, from our celebrated SPENSER, is too striking, not to claim a record in this place and is inserted, for the noble sentiment which it is calculated to impress on every humane and Christian heart. Speaking of the holy Beads-men in the House of Mercy, he says,

“THE fourth appointed by his office was

Poor Prisoners to relieve with gracious aid.

And Captives to redeem with price of brass.

From Turks and Sarazins, which them had staid;

And though they faulty were, yet weir he weigh'd

That God to us forgiveth every hour,

Much more than that, why they in Bands were laid.”

Fairy Queen, B. I. Cant. X. Stan. 40,

(362)

Extract from an Epistle to Lord North, on Imprisonment for Debt.

WHERE Science languishes, and Merit mourns;

Arms, Arts, and Talents, suffer each by turns;

Immur’d for years, — or, what is worse, till Fame

With poison’d breath pollutes the honest name, —

The hapless Debtor is compell’d to share

His weight of anguish, and his load of care:

Distress’d, deserted, torpid with surprize.

To friend and foe the hapless man applies;

He seeks relief; but seeks, alas! in vain;

None heed his plaints, or mitigate his Pain.

Depriv’d of Fame, in expectation crost,

His heart desponding, and his fortunes lost;

By Want o’erwhelm’d as once by Friends ensnar’d,

His Hopes abortive, and his health impair’d!

(359)

Every Annual Benefactor of two guineas is eligible to be on the Committee. — The sum of twenty guineas constitutes a Life-Governor.

Persons disposed to contribute to the support of this Charity, may see the Books of the Society's Transactions, and receive any further information, by enquiring of the Secretary, at No. 7, Craven-Street, Strand.

Benefactions are received by

James Neild, Esq. Treasurer, Cheyne-Walk, Chelsea.

Messrs. Herries, Farquhar, and Co. St. James’s-Street.

Messrs. Hoares, Fleet-Street.

Messrs. Fuller and Chatteris, Lombard-Street.

Messrs. Biddulph, Cocks, and Ridge, Charing-Cross.

Messrs. Dorrien and Co. Finch-Lane, Cornhill.

Messrs. Hammersleys, Pall-Mall.

Messrs. Vere, Lucadou, and Co. Lombard-Street.

And at the Secretary’s, No. 7, Craven-Street, Strand,

Nichols and Son, Printers,

Red Lion Passage, Fleet Street,

