The C A S E of the Parijh of Wappin, in relation, to Sir John Parfons, humbly firefented to the Honourable Houfe of Commons.

THEY were made Parochial by Aft of Parliament, An. <> &6 Gulielmi & Maria, in which Aft the Bounds of their Parifh are exprefly mentioned, within which Bounds is the now Dwelling-Houfe of Sir John Parfons.

The faid Bounds are the very fame which they had when an Ham* let, before the laid Aft; fo that Sir John Parfons is an Inhabitant of the laid Parifh, both by the laid Aft and by antient Right, fince the Ground on which his Houle ftands has paid to the Poor of Wappin, and other Dues time out of mind, as they can clearly prove by many Witnefles.

Notwithftanding which Sir John Parfons is pleas’d to refufe to pay the Parifh-Affeflments, pretending he belongs to the Tower-Liberty.

To which your Petitioners Reply;

A Place called Well-Clofe, fituate partly in the Parilh of White Chappel, partly in the Parifh of Stepney, and partly in the now Parifh of St.John of Wappin ( where Sir John Parfons now lives ) lying above half a Mile from the Tower of London, being lately built; the Inhabitants (for Ends not very juftifiable) did about the latter end of the Reign of the Late King James endeavour to set up a Liberty (as they call’d that Place) like to White Friars, the Mint, or Savoy; and pretended by virtue of a Patent they belong’d to the Tower, tho that Pretence was never made or heard of before; fince which they have refus’d to pay Parifh-Duties, and affaulted and abus’d the Officers that came to colleft them, be-fides many other riotous and unlawful Praftices.

For which Some of them have been profecuted and fin’d at the King’s-Bench: 'and fince that Others have declar’d that if Sir John Parfons (who is the cftiefeft Perfon in the faid pretended Liberty) did pay Parifh-Rates, they would no longer refufe; but he abfolutely denying, has thereby encouraged* all'to Refufe.

Your Petitioner^ have been informed by the Learned in the Law, that the faid Patent (if any) is illegal, and fo void, and the fame has been fo in-timated to be, by the prefcnt Lord Chief JufticeHolt. And your Petitioners have frequently offered to try the Validity of it by Law, but the fame has been refufed by the Inhabitants of the pretended Liberty.

But if the'faiJ Patent were good,yet it does not pretend to take away the Rightsbf the feVeral Parifhes to which Well-Clofe belongs; and were it never fb Good, yet your Petitioners hope this Honourable Houfe will efteem Antient Right, renewed and confirmed by AN ACT OF PARLIAMENT, to bemuch ftronger than any Patent.

Since therefore your Petitioners are one of the pooreft Parifhes in all the Suburbs of London, paying (although but a fmall Parijh) above 800 I. per Annum to the Poor: Andfince Sir John Parfons w almojl the only Perfon of Eft ate and Subftance in all their Parijh, they therefore humbly pray that the Privilege of this Houfe may not exempt him from paying his Parochial Dues, but that he may wave his Privilege.

