MEMOIRS

OF THE

Mint and Queen's-Bench

OR,

A true Account of the Government, Politics, Customs, Humours, and other Surprizing Curiosities of those Inchanted Provinces Never publish'd before.

WITH A

CHARACTER

OF THE

MARSHALL

In Several

Letters to a Person of QUALITY.

Also a Poem to the Marshall by Mr. Tate, Poet Laureate to Her MAJESTY, occasion'd by a General PETITION of the Gentlemen on the Place, to my Lord Chief Justice.

Facilis Descensus Averni,

Sed revocare Gradum, superasque evadere ad Auras,

Hoc Opus; his Labor est. Virgil.

Enter'd and paid the Duty at the Stamp-Office according to the Act of Parliament.

London: Printed by J. Smith, in Nevil's-Alley in Fetter-Lane, for the Author and sold by John Morphew near Stationers Hall, 1713.

Where also may be had A Satyr on Old Maids, Price 3 d.

To the truly Worthy

William Broughton, Esq;

MARSHALL

OF THE

Queen's-Bench

SIR,

I TAKE not the Freedom of affixing your Name to these Trifles, from an Imagination that they are worthy the Perusal of a Person of your sound Sense, and solid Judgment, but as an Instance, to convince those who are generaly prejudic'd against all Persons who have the Command of Prisoners, that your mild Government, and engaging Conversation have such Charms, as may exert a Ludicrous Fancy, even under the Misfortune of Confinement. I need not inform the World how well you are Descended, what an Eminent Merchant you have been, how many Thousands Master of, 'till by Storms, Tempests, and other unavoidable Accidents, you lost immense Sums in a short Time; nor with what Rays

The Dedication.

of Honour and Probity your Character always Shin'd: To these, none who knew you formerly are Strangers: What I shall briefly insist upon, is your most excellent Management of that Port you have so long Possest. Nor is it a little Satisfaction to me, that your Merits transcend the reach of Flattery, and by Consequence vindicate me from all suspition of that Crime, since it is universally acknowledged, that your Conduct in Point of Prudence, Generosity, Compassion, &c. not only much surpasses all that ever was discover'd in your Predecessors. but 'tis also to be fear'd, will never be Imitated by those who shall succeed you, by Reason few who are truly Ingenuous, will risk the Blemish of coming short of so Bright a Pattern of Wisdom and Goodness. Tho' your Power is very extensive in its own Nature, yet you render it Otherwise to your self, in strictly Limiting it by the Rules of Honour and Equity. Your Demands for the Liberty of the Rules are very Easie, if we consider the great Value of it; and ‘tis but Reason you shou'd have Something for so great a Benefit, on account of the Hazard you run of Troubles and Expences in Law-Suits, notwithstanding the Securities given you. So far are you from Insulting any under your Power, that you treat all Gentlemen, with the same Civility and Respect, as cou'd be shewn 'em in their most Flourishing Circumstances; and so wide from Conversing with any to their Expence, that you are continually Entertaining several at your own Table; Nay, often have advanc'd Money to your own Prisoners, under pressing Exigencies, and even after you have been Abus'd by others for the same Generosity. You have forgiven your own Fees and Chamber-Rent to many, to make their Discharge more easie; and are always ready to assist such as apply themselves to you, to bring their Affairs to an happy Conclusion; seeming more pleas'd to loose Customers for Chamber-Rent, &c. when to their Ease and Comfort, than Others are of Gaining 'em; Nay, so extreme Compassonate are you to the Unfortunate, that you have frequently advis'd 'em, when they have proffer'd Gold for the Liberty of the Rules, first to offer it to their Creditors, to try if it might not Compound for their Discharge: Hence it is, that whereas former Marshalls, (from a Consciousness of their Barbarous Usuage) have not dar'd to come Home without a Guard, all the Gentlemen now are ready to venture their Lives in your Defence. Shou'd any Reflect that this Lenity towards the Debtor, proceeds from a meer Easiness of Nature, and at the same time void of Equity to the Creditor; Tis Answer'd, that

The Dedication.

your wise Management has tended more to the Benefit of the Creditor by far, than that of any of your Predecessors; except the Rifling a Debtor to his very Skin, can be thought a proper Method to Inable and Encourage him to become Solvent; and whereas former Marshalls readily quitted Securities for Greater Sums, not regarding whether the Debtor run away next Day, you take care, (where you cannot depend on their Principles) of ether Substantial Security; and certainly while you prevent Knaves, none but those of a Barbarous Nature, will condemn your Indulgence to Honest Gentlemen. But as the Brightest Virtues are oftnest oppos'd by Calumny, so your Merit must have been less to be absolutely free from it. Yet upon examining into all Reflections, which appear to have any shadow of Ground for 'em, I find 'em wholly to arise, either from such who have abus'd their Liberty, and thereby have exacted the more Severity from you, in your own Defence; or from Prevarications of your Under Officers, which (on notice given) you immediately Rectify, or else from Party-Misrepresentations: An Instance of the first happen'd some time since, in a Person who attempted to break out of the Bench, yet even to Him, you remitted great part of the Rigour in your Power to impose, and after the most Ingrateful Returns for your Generosity towards him; And I cannot in Honour decline the detecting an Aspersion cast on you in Relation to the last: Which was, that upon Choice for Parliament Men, you shou'd threaten those under your Power with close Confinement, if they Voted not for Mr. Halsey, which not only to my Knowledge was false in every particular, but I also heard you mention Sir George Matthews with much Respect, with which (in Justice to your fair Management) I acquainted him. To conclude, Sir, a Character might be much inlarg'd upon; When you found the Severity of the Times, begun to reduce Unfortunate Gentlemen so far, that without much strait'ning 'em, you cou'd not exact so much from 'em, as the support of your Post requir'd; rather than offer at a Thing (tho' in Justice you might have done it) so repugnant to your Sweet and Compassionate Temper, you fought to Resign it; yet like a tender Father, who provides for his Children after his Decease, you propos'd another Gentleman to supply your Room, whom first you oblig'd to follow exactly those Measures your self had taken, with all those at present in the Place. As an Irrefragable Argument, that all the Above carries an Air with it of the (strictest Truth, (and of which no Age affords a Precedent) on

The Dedication.

first Notice that you intended to Resign, a General Petition from the Gentlemen of the Place, was deliver'd to my Lord Chief Justice Parker, Intimating the high Satisfaction they have enjoy'd from the Favourable Management of your Station, and Hopes of your Continuation; frequent Complaints have been made by Gentlemen here against your Predecessors, but never 'till now has been offer'd such Demonstration of their Respect and Esteem. Thus Sir, in all your Transactions you have approv'd your Self, so Just, Generous, Curteous, Kind and Charitable, that you have appear'd in a special manner to be appointed by Providence for this Post, in Compassion to the Sufferings of the Unfortunate. As (amongst many others) has been Experienc'd by,

Sir,

Your most Oblig'd,

Humble Servant,

M. SMITH.

TO

William Broughton, Esq;

MARSHALL

OF THE

Queen's-Bench.

Occasion'd by a PETITION of the Gentlemen of the Place, to the Right Honble the Lord Chief Justice.

WHEN Ovid was to Cruel Exile sent;

With Him the Roman Muse to Pontus went;

But much surpriz'd to find ( when thither come )

Scythia less Savage than her Native Rome,

So Mine, allarm'd with dreadful Fears before,

Imagin'd Southwark was a Scythian Shore.

But to the Gen'rous MARSHALS's Presence brought,

We soon recanted that mistaken Thought;

The Muse with his obliging Looks was pleas'd,

But when she heard him speak ( with Rapture seiz'd)

She bless'd the Charming Tongue that cou'd dispense,

In Courtly Language, Oracles of sense;

Then whisper'd in mine Ear --

[ To William Broughton, Esq; ]

Take Courage Bard, once more our Joys are crown'd,

We have a second Patron here, a second Dorset found.

The First to Thee, Great Britain's Lawrel gave,

But THIS Releasment from a Living Grave,

When for Church-Service to Confinement run,

And Wretchedly, yet Gloriously undone.

O therefore to your silent Cell retire.

To sing him thanks, then break your Luckless Lyre.

No Forcd Excuse, for this Address we plead,

No Pow'rful Friend engage to Intercede;

This Priv'ledge does of Right to Us belong,

when, Signal Merit mounts above the Throng,

Poets must pay the Tribute of their Song.

When Duty Challenges this Just Respect,

Tis Forfeit of our Charter to neglect.

On such Endowments how cou'd She enlarge,

Endowments worthy of a Nobler Charge;

A Genius for sublimer Station born,

Desert that might Great Britain's State adorn.

But such is Angel's condescending Love,

For Mortal's Aid, they quit the Bow'rs Above,

[ To William Broughton, Esq; ]

Then shun the wealthy Seats, where Grandeur dwell,

 For the poor Guardianship of Cottages and Cells.

Your Candour, Sir, this Sally must excuse,

Of an Oblig'd and much Inamour'd Muse,

Who now (transported,) sees above Her Banks

Your Southwark swell, and thus resounds her Thanks.

All who before my Rustic Seat despis'd,

Confess Me now Reform'd and Civilizd;

AUGUSTA boasts her Wealth and stately Tow'rs,

My Burrough Triumphs that a BROUGHTON's Ours:

For Honesty we were Renown'd before,

The Nat'ral Product of our Southern Shore,

But now Improv'd to Sense and Manners too.

Refin'd as e'er in Covent-Garden grew;

Our Thames can now what Tyber ne'er cou'd boast

Polite Inhabitants on either Coast.

As in a Province by a Vice-Roy Sway'd,

A Gentle Ruler is by all Obey'd,

Oppress'd by former Tyrants 'tis with Fear,

Those Subjects must of a Successor hear;

[ To William Broughton, Esq; ]

And some Superior Potentate Address,

Renown'd for Gen'rous Pity to Distress;

Your frighten'd Clients so submit their Cause,

To the chief Guardian of Great Britain's Laws;

Humbly Imploring YOU may still retain

Your Government — or if those Hopes are vain,

(As * LOVE is apt to think its Fears are True)

Their Second Wish is for Another YOU.

* Res est solliciti plena Timoris Amor. Ovid.

N. Tate, Poet-Laureat to Her Majesty.

To Mr. SMITH.

Luxuriant Fancy! Nothing can Controul,

Or Daunt the Vig'rous Sallies of your Soul;

In vain your Body was a while Confin'd,

The Globe can set no Limits to your Mind:

Few have such stanch Philosophy Confest,

To Laugh at Injuries, and make Restraint a Jest.

Such Bright Converse as yours may change our Laws,

Or Cruel Creditors, will drop their Cause;

Nay, some for That, Insolvency may Feign,

And count their Loss of Liberty, their Gain.

The Mint (as is in Ancient-Records told)

Was once the Office, for Impressing Gold,

But now the Tower must to that submit,

For Coining a much Nobler Metal, Wit.

Since you're with Honour now discharg'd, hast o'er.

And Sprightly Wit to'ts Native Clime restore;

Or Covent Garden will be soon Forestall'd,

And Southwark the Beau Monde, hereafter Call'd.

Rob. Hall.

MEMOIRS

OF THE

Mint and Queen's-Bench, &c.

LETTER I.

SIR,

Nothing can be a more agreeable Task, than what you have engag'd me in, viz. to give you an Account of the Affairs of this World, (known to that part of Europe you dwell in, by the Name of the Queen's-Bench) and which I shall prove in a following Letter, to be a distinct World from yours. But least you shou'd think my Arrival hither, as Romantic as his was, who invented a Machine to mount him into the World in the Moon, I'll give you as rational an Account of my Proceeding, as the Nature of the thing will bear. It was not from any Report I had receiv'd of the Beauty, Magnificence, or Wealth of the Place, or of the Learning or Politeness of the Inhabitants; that I was tempted to this Viage, nor really so much as a fixt Intention, I had at that instant for Travelling; but at the Instigation of some Friends, who were (it seems) more sollicitous for the Enlargement of my Understanding, than they found me inclin'd to, I was (in a manner) Spirited hither; for a Commissioner for the Peopling these Territories, putting on Humane Shape, whisper'd a few hard Words in mine Ear, in a surprizing Dialect, and at the same time produc'd a Parchment Scrol, which in Magical Notes contain'd a Charm too strong, for all my Vertue to oppose; the Force whereof immediately put my reluctant Vehicle into a progressive Motion. Our first Stage was to his own Seat, where, besides all other Civilities, He

[ 10 ]

did me the Honour of placing his own Guards upon me, a Favour I cou'd willingly have excus'd, but that his Curtesy press'd it upon me. Liquor flow'd in abundance, not only to me, but amongst all his Attendance also, and (indeed) he conferr'd the Honour upon me of Treating them all; but I found his principal Kindness consisted, in endeavouring to Lighten me all he cou'd, for the greater ease in my Passage; the End of Which was (after I had discharg'd his House, and my self of all I had about me) to bring me to an inchanted Castle, call'd ( as I have since learn'd,) the Marshalsea; and there, He gave me to understand, his Commission ended. The various Spectacles in this Place were amazing, in one Place you hear a Fiddle, in another a Groan; here a Piper, there a Penitent; in another place a fat Baud, and after her a Skelleton, at the Head of fifty walking Diseases, tho I rarely met a fighting Face, yet there's scarce a Man, that is not a thousand strong, and what is strange, he feeds all these, while he starves himself. Within you hear the Chinking of Irons, and Vollies of Oaths, while they are fetter'd from throwing ought else, at one another's Heads. The most wretched here, Fare the best, and eat out of the Basket, while those on the other side, are ready to eat them up. After a while I had made Remarks on the great Variety this Scene contains. Attendants were order'd to wait upon me to a Judge, to Sign my Pass-port to these Realms, of which I after became an Inhabitant. I was first convey'd to a Structure in one of the Avenues, belonging to 'em, call'd (in the vulgar Term) Bird-Cage-Alley, and was not a little surpriz'd at the wonderful Transformations all suffer there; for they enter Woodcocks, continue Owls, and go out Canary-Birds; but (contrary to the manner in your World) the longer they're Coop'd, the Leaner they grow. But 'twere Ingrateful to pass over the Care took of us there; for least we shou'd run into Dangers, by rambling abroad in the Night-time, in a strange Country, our Doors are fast Lock'd and Bolted upon us; and since many, when their Heads are disturb'd with new Adventures, are apt to walk in their Sleep, and mistaking the Doors, to go out at the Windows, those there, are set thick, with Iron Bars, to prevent such Mischiefs. None but Persons of Condition, have the Privilege of this Palace, who come with Letters of Recommendation to the Prince, and the Price of their Liberty, which when purchas'd, they have the freedom of ranging throughout the Empire; but if they presume beyond its Limits, a parcel of Furies, in the Shape of Escape-Warrants, lie in wait, to hurry them to next Goal, from whence there is no Redemption, 'till clear'd of all they're charg'd with; which Trespass was carefully avoided by, Sir,

Yours, &c.

[ 11 ]

LETTER II.

SIR,

I Undertook in my last to prove this to be another World, distinct from yours, which I doubt not easily to demonstrate, since our Politics, Morals, Conversation, Dress, and every thing differs from yours. Liberty and Property, so valu'd by you, we look upon as Obstacles to true Happiness, for we think no Man ought to be trusted with the first, by reason it proves oftner, Instrumental to his Distruction, than to his Edification; and the last, being but Burthensome, every one quits it, before he approaches our Shoars. To do as we wou'd be done by, we have found by dear Experience, when among you, to be a meer Chymerical, Impracticable Notion, therefore loose no time, by inculcating it here. Conversation is esteem'd by you, in Proportion to the many Thousands Men Possess, but by us, by the Thousands they're less than nothing; therefore a Man that breaks for an Hundred Thousand Pounds, scorns to keep Company with one, who breaks for an Hundred. A Demand of Debt, which sowrs People of your World, sees 'em all a Laughing here, for they look on the Demandant as a Merry Andrew come to divert 'em; but if a Debtor Promises, he is suspected of Treason to the Constitucion, or sent to a Mad-House: Yet these Things happen not, but when a Dun arrives, unacquainted with our Rules of Arithmetic; for most here are willing to Pay, even to the last Numerical Pound, all we differ in is, you reckon Twenty Shillings to the Pound, and we but Two and Six-pence, and the Proverb you allow of, justifies us herein, That alll who go to Rome, must do as Rome does, with you the Creditor is Caress'd, with us the Debtor, and the first only liable to Punishment, if he transgresses the Decorum of the Place; which is, to be thrown into the black River Lethe, on our Western Borders, 'till he forgets all former Passages of his Life, and is thence render'd more receptive of our Mode of Speech, Good Cloaths so much esteem'd there, are scandalous here, by giving a Jealousie of conveying away the Wealth of the Nation. To pull out a Watch is taken for an Affront to the Company, as design'd to set Limits to good Conversation; and are so rarely seen, that upon producing one lately, several were ready to give upon Oath, that it was a Living Creature: But one after arriving with a Silver Hilted Sword, all concluded it to be a flaming Meteor, whose appearance must needs be on some Portentuous Account; this made many endeavour to recollect their Prayers, which they had forgotten these twenty Years. Some here will talk of Golden Snuff-Boxes, Diamond Rings, &c. they were formerly Masters of, but so obscurely, that their Images appear almost worn out of their Memories. With you the Father keeps Possession, and Maintains the Son, with us the Son is often put into Possession

[ 12 ]

and Maintains the Father. There the Husband Travels, and the Wife keeps at Home, Here the Husband keeps at Home, and the Wife goes Abroad. We have a Mint, as well as You, but Yours Coins Money, Ours only Melts it down. You walk about to get a Stomach to your Dinner, we do the same, to get a Dinner to our Stomachs. An Execution is Hanging with You, but here it aVes a Man, so that many an one hath liv'd after it, to see all his Sons Hang'd before Him, thus every Thing Is transacted in direct reverse to what it is in your World. I am,

Sir, &c.

LETTER III

SIR,

IN your Answer to my last, you appear a little impatient to be inform'd under what Denomination, this World may pass; I had satisfy'd your Curiosity herein before, had not my Ignorance thereof till now prevented me. The Truth is, no People under the Species of Humankind, are so little anxious for improving their Knowledge, as those of this Country; their enquiry rarely reaching further, than to satisfy themselves, how to Dine, and how to spend the Day after: And there is certainly a kind of Felicity in this Temper, since discovery more increases a Thirst after Knowledge, than gives Satisfaction to it: However a Dispute on that very Subject, happening two Days since, very luckily for your Information, I shall give you the Particulars of it. Several of the Learned meeting together, a few uncommon Cups, fir'd their Ambition for making some Discoveries, beyond what they are usually inclin'd to, when perticularly, the Question you are sollicitous about was started; but such Debates not being very frequent, they were mannag'd with a little Confusion at first, 'till at length they agreed to choose a Committee and Chair-man by Balloting, which being done, a young Pedant (sent hither by an Infidel of an Hostess) addressing himself to a Chair-man, said: In my Opinion this must be that Infernal Region, under the absolute Jurisdiction of Pluto, of which the Poets have given so large an Account, from the Analogy it bears, to the Relation they have given of that Place, and of the Sufferings of the Persons Confin'd in it. First, Because all pass to it over the Fatal River Stix (by you call'd the Thames) and so very few of them return again to the World from whence they came. Then on the Western side rouls the black River Lethe, whose Stench and Stagnation are of so expunging a Quality, that when any Bailiffs, or ill-manner'd Creditors, are thrown into it, all former Images of Barbarity, presently vanish from their Memories,

[ 13 ]

and they rise up again as tame Monsters, as Heart can wish, All are also hurry'd hither by Furies, in the Shapes of Serjeants, Bailiffs, Tip-staves, &c. There's Cerberus also (under the Name of Turn-Key) who must be Brib'd with a Silver Sop, or no Mercy is to be expected; and tho' he has not three Heads, he may have as much Mischief in one, as the other in all three. Those on the Gentlemen's side, endure the Torment of Tantalus, by seeing the common side, Chop up all the Victuals in the Basket, which they in vain Gape for. The Punishment of the Bellides, is here to be met with in every Corner, inflicted on those, who let all their Friends bestow on them, pass thro' 'em, as thro' a Sieve, still leaving 'em in statu quo. Great Numbers suffer the Plague of Sisiphus, who are daily coming to a Conclusion with their Creditors, but still the Stone rouls back with additional Force, against their declining strength to raise it. Many Languish also under the Misery of Prometheus, while Famine (that Voracious Vulture) not only Gorges it self on their Livers, but also on their Lights, Lungs, and other Vital Parts: With all other Tortures which the Fiends their Creditors, can impose upon 'em. The Power of the Monarch likewise over the Liberty of his Subjects, is absolute beyond any President in your World, and Pluto's extends not to Life it self. To this a Poet reply'd, I can by no means accord with that Gentleman in his Opinion of this World; it appears very absur'd to fancy it Hell, when we meet not one Usurer in it, and so very few Lawyers; Nay the most Villainous of Mankind, Bailiffs, very rarely touch on our Shoar. I rather take it to be Elysium; since it seems a soft Retirement from the Fatigues of Life. No Noises of Ravage, Plunder, Sacrilidge, nor so much as the Rumour of Wars reach our Ears. No Extortioner shews his Teeth here, to grind the Face of the Poor. No harsh Dictates of the Law affect us: But each with a Tranquil and Serene Breast, leads his Beauteous, and Seraphic Nimph, to shady Groves, and Purling Streams. ——— At this a Sow'r Gentleman started up, and Cry'd, Hold, hold, Mr. Poet, thus 'tis always with you, when you have got into your Flights, and your Fiddle Faddles; to mistake, Nasty Drabs in St. George's Fields, for Seraphic Nimphs, and the stinking Ditch by the Bowling Green, for Purling Streams; I tell you flatly, and am Positive in't,'tis neither Heav'n nor Hell; not the first, because Mint Rags, will hardly pass for Robes of Glory; nor the last, by reason the Devil can't endure a Poet, he so out-does him at his own Trade of Lying; therefore it can be nothing else but directly Purgatory, and I'll dye in the Faith of it; for it not only Purges a Man's Purse. but also his Heart, Blood and Guts, e'er he has been here a Twelve Month. There is Peter Paunch, he brought with him last Year, four hundred Pounds of Flesh, Averdupoise Weight, and now you may draw him thro'a Gold Ring; Nay, I am told, when we have been here Sev'n Years, they make Skittle Pins of our Bones. A grave Philosophic Gentleman oppos'd to this; Your Arguments will not hold, to prove it Purgatory, for our Purses are well Purg'd before we come hither, and generally have cast their last Calves, and as for an Abstemious

[ 14 ]

Diet, I think it so far from being an obstacle to true Happiness, that 'tis often a Promoter of it, since Health both of Body and Mind are preserv'd thereby; and by what has been alternately Discuss'd before, it can neither be Heav'n nor Hell, therefore in my poor Judgment, it may not be improper to Style it by some new Name; what if we call it the Phantastic World, since so full of whimsical Circumstances, running Counter in all the Transitions in it, to what we formerly receiv'd for the Dictates of Reason: After all had a while revolv'd on the Notion, and Retir'd within themselves, for the Opinion of their Informing Faculties, they unanimously agreed, that this Epithet was most Significant and Comprehensive. This is all the present account cante given by, Sir,

Yours, &c.

LETTER IV.

SIR,

SINCE you have so kindly receiv'd, what my Inclination prepar'd for your Entertainment, I shall with the more alacrity proceed in the Task I have undertaken. 'Tis held for a general Maxim, That all ought to defend the Reputation of the Government which Protects 'em, and the Character of their Fellow Subjects, as tending to promote their own, I being not only Naturaliz'd here, but also preferr'd to the Dignity of a Bencher, shou'd be wanting in my Duty, did I not discharge it, perticularly in this Point. Our Government is Absolute and Dispotic, beyond that of France, or the Grand Signior; for our Monarch can restrain the Liberty of his Subjects at Pleasure; without giving other Reason for it, than that it is his Pleasure so to do: a Power frequently exerted by his Predecessors, when ever a Fit of the Spleen came over them, or a Difficiency in their Exchequer provok'd 'em to it. As such Government is the worst in the World, when a Tyrant sits at the Helm, so it is the best, when a Wise and mild Prince fills the Throne, as at present happens; for He is so far from insulting the Liberty of his Subjects, tha[t] (his just Tribute paid, a Trifle comparative to the immunities obtain'd for it) He often generously entertains 'em, and in such a curteous manner, that it softens all their Sufferings. We are under no perticular Laws, which shew we come nearer to the State of Innocence: and I confess I was never so much mistaken in any thing as in the Opinion I conceiv'd of the People here, before I liv'd among 'em; I imagin'd them to be a parcel of Profligate, Lewd Rakes, who by Riotous Living, became Insolvent, and so came hither to defraud their Creditors: whereas I find now, 'tis Malice, Revenge, Impatience, or Circumvention,

[ 15 ]

brought 'em all hither, and not a Man of 'em but cou'd have paid Forty or Fifty Shillings per Pound, had they fair Dealing, or a little time allow'd 'em: This is the Voice of all when they arrive; Tis true, they generally speak it to an unbelieving Audience, but want of Faith in the Hearer, ought not to reflect on the Character of the Relater. Vice Reigns not here Comparatively to what it does in your World; if a Man, gets Drunk one Day, he usually does Pennance for it, by fasting three Days after; If one finds an Appetite to a Wench, too strong for his Reason to controal, he however endeavours to Mortify it, by taking up with such a dirty, ill-favour'd Drab, as may give him a Loathing to the same Sport, a long time after. Nor need we a Statute to limit Gaming to Ten Pounds, for our Bowling seldom exceeds a Sice, our Back Gammon, a Mug of Ale, and our Cards, a Pipe of Tobacco. Perhaps you'll put on a sarcastical Fleer, and say all these Negative Virtues arise from want of Money, and not of Inclination; but since every thing has two Handles, 'Tis no news that People (thro' the depravety of Humane Nature,) shou'd take all by the worst. Pimps, Bullies, Bauds, Punks, &c. are never Naturaliz'd here, but halt at the Marshalsea, and other Receptacles for such Vermine on your side; not being able to defray the Charge of their Pass-port hither: Perhaps some may shelter in the Mint, but that (tho' on our Borders) is a separate Common wealth (of which I may give some further account in a following Letter) and as we own no Alliance to it, so we are not accountable for their Crimes. Misers, Usurers, and Extortioners, those barbarous Villains, who are Nourish'd by the Tears of Widows, and Orphans, and Swarm so among you, are perfect Strangers here: Nor do this Ancient Records of our Kingdom, take notice of above one of those Infamous Wretches, that ever was brought hither; and that was by Mistake, at a Miser's Feast; where he was taken for his Twin-Brother, of an Opposite Inclination; but after he had been shewn about some time for a Monster, our Land Spew'd him up, least he shou'd Debauch the Inhabitants thereof. On the Contrary, it is well known, that this World is Peopled, with the most Noble, Bountiful, and Generous Spirits of yours; who having arriv'd to that Celebrated Pitch of Philosophy, The Contempt of Money, dispers'd it frankly Abroad: And that 'tis on their Munificence, those remaining with You, have built their Fortunes: Nay of so Excellent a Quality is our Climate, that they who bring over with 'em, any Remains of Pride and Ambition, have 'em soon purg'd away by it. As for Religion, there is little Noise of it here, and 'tis generally observ'd, there is most of it, where there is the least Noise of it; however Gold is worship'd here, as well as by you, but with a sublimer Notion of that Deity, for we believe it Invisible, and by Consequence, Spiritual, while you adore it under a gross Corporeal Form; but in other Articles we agree with you, except in your Creed, for our People have been To often deceiv'd in your World, that they bring very little Faith over with 'em: Tho' I my self have retain'd so much, as to believe your Friendship will be perpetual towards, Sir,

Yours, &c.

[ 16 ]

LETTER V.

SIR,

I Receiv'd the favour of your last in the Evening, just after I had made Remarks, on the several Profession of my Fellow Subjects, which happens very a propos, to the Contents of your Letter, since they seem levell'd at the same Object: Therefore I shall now communicate all that has as yet fallen under my Observation of that kind. We have an incredible Number of Captains here, perhaps enough to Head all the Armies in Europe; for if any Man can produce witness, thatt he has stedfastly for half an hour look'd on a brown Market, without shaking, or wrapt up in Buff, has made a Figure in the Train-bands, it gives him his Choice of a Troop of Horse, or Company of Foot; Also if one can give Evidence, that he has cross'd the Herring Pond, and smelt to a Bowl of Punch, he next way is dub'd Captain of a Man of War; These Hero's are so jealous for maintaining their Honour, that they'll rather fast nine Days, than Mortgage the cold Iron by their sides for a Dinner: They talk frequently of sending Pieces of Paper, but their Loyalty to their Prince so wisely Cuirbs their Fury, that their Challenges seldom proceed to Thrusts, because they have a Notion that if a Man is kill'd under Execution, it may prove Detrimental to his Government: Certainly such Conduct, Joyn'd with so much Courage wou'd render 'em Invincible on a Just Occasion. However they shine clearly out in other Qualifications of a Soldier, viz. Brandy, Tobacco, and a Drab in St. George's Fields. Another great part of the Inhabitants are rank'd in the Classis of Gentlemen; what tho' a Man was got on a Bulk, took in by the Parish, and after put out by 'em to a Thimble-maker; the very Track of such Mechanical Operations is raz'd out of their Memories; They walk about at their ease, put on wise Looks to talk on State Affairs: extreamly satisfy'd, when they hear Titles and Garters are dispos'd of to their Likings; wonderful sollicitous for an Honourable Peace; anxious under Apprehensions of an Inglorious one; and when they can Muster up a Sice, loose it with an Air at the Bowling Green, and next Day Dine on three half-penny worth of Beef, and Porrage into the Bargain. We have also abundance of Merchants, for if a Man has adventur'd a pair of Silk-Stockings to Spain, and had in Return a Pound of Snuff, It sufficiently Intitles him to that Denomination, and to the enlarging upon the Subject, with how many Thousands he has lost by Storms, Wrecks, &c. and twice as much taken by the French. You shall often hear of Losses sustain'd by some in one Year, which amount to fifty times more than they and all their Ancestors were worth, ever since their Names first came in with the Saxons. But what is unaccountable, most of 'em have lost more since they came in, than in all their Lives before; for it has been observ'd, that a Person, who at his entrance, has given a Modest account of Five Thousand Pounds, in a few Years, has rais'd it to Fifty; not that these are very pernicious Lies, because no Body is deceiv'd by 'em. These

[ 17 ]

Gentlemen when Abroad are generally stairing at Weathercocks, to inform the Ignorant, when we may expect Mails. Their Conversation consists chiefly in Speculations on Degrees of Latitude, runing thro' all the Points of the Compass. Prognosticating the Effects of the South-Sea Trade, Temperature of Climates, measuring Distances, &c. which they do for refreshing their Memories, other wise some have been here so long, they wou'd forget what Occupation they follow'd, Shop-keepers come over in Flights, like Wood Cocks in Winter, the wiser sort (like broken Bones well Set) Compound with their Creditors, and go out Richer than they came in: The rest consume the little Substance they have left, at Skittles, after adjourn to the Bench, and at last sleep with their Fore-fathers. As for Lawyers, they have generally Knavery enough, to keep 'em on your side the Water, if a Qualm happens to come over 'em, and they begin to grow Honest, we have 'em presently, but so very poor, that their first step is to the Bench and Basket. Poets we have here also, but they drink so little Wine, and are so rarely seen to Eat, that 'tis Imagin'd, they have found out means for obtaining Nectar and Ambrosia, the Repast of the Gods, and chiefly subsist thereon: By declining such gross Nourishments they were formerly familiar with, their Bodies are become meer Airy Vehicles, more favouring thereby the strong Energy of their Souls; on which account we are in Expectation of abundance of Sublime; when I am made happy by some Specimens of it, they shall be faithfully communicated to you by, Sir,

Yours, &c.

LETTER VI.

SIR,

Since you arc pleas'd to define some account of the Modes, and Airs, which the People of this World discover in their Conversation, I shall endeavour to answer your Expectation herein. They are really much the same, as in the Courts of your European Princes, and in some Cases the Points of Civility are carry'd a little beyond what is to be met with there; which in time may render 'em Presidents, worthy Immitation; for they are a very PROMISING People, as even the severest of their Creditors will acknowledge. Here are some who have the Prince's Ear, who are extreem Courteous and Obliging; ready to imbrace all Opportunities to serve you, and will proceed (Just as at your Courts) in Proportion to Pay;

if you forget that, they forget you, as thinking it not good Manners, to act Counter to yours; but Duns shew a thousand times more good Breeding than with you, there they are surly, knit their Brows and Threaten here they mildly Intreat, and not beyond what may consist with your conveniency. Our Benchers have the like Immunities in Term time, as your Members of Parliament have during their Sessions, but with this Distinction

[ 18 ]

to their Advantage, these walk strictly by Rule, even when they ate indulg'd with the greatest Liberty, while those act so exorbitantly then, that they are often brought hither after, to learn a better Decorum. Entertainments on Visits also are extream Courtly, a Tale of a new Adventure supplies the Room of a Bottle of Wine, and so your humble Servant. They have such an Aversion to a Foppish Air in Dress, that they seldom Disguise their Wigs with Powder, nor are extream sollicitous for the Preservation of their Teeth, having not much occasion for them; however they who have clean Linnen, wear it, and they who have nor, with a great deal of Philosophy despise it. We are frequently invited to Dinner at good Tables, but they are better Bred, than to offer it Gratis, least it shou'd be taken as an Affront to our Misfortunes. The better sort of Marry'd People, lead their Lives much like your Quality, speak to one another Civilly, Love one another indifferently, and for avoiding Curtain-Lectures, the Thames often parts their Beds. The unmarry'd keep as they are, from an Observation, that many are brought hither by their Wives, but few are carry'd back by 'em. The Children are very happy, for owing nothing to their Parents, but their Being, they are very rarely ruin'd by Indulgence, and as seldom tempted at one and twenty to that wicked Option, Pray Father please to dye. Pride, State, and Ambition, are perfect Strangers here, and to continue them so, our Inhabitants before their Arrival, wisely rid themselves of all Fuel may feed those noxious Flames. Flattery never disguises our Conversation, because never Rewarded, nor is Friendship commenc'd on Mercenary Ends, since all depended on it, is a Good Morrow, for which Reasons, Obligations never grow a Burden , as yours must of necessity become to me, except I can find an opportunity, by some piece of Service to evince how much I am, Sir,

Yours, &c.

LETTER VII.

SIR,

I Shou'd give you a very imperfect account of these Territories, did I not acquaint you, that they contain two Species of Government, one is Absolute Monarchy, and of which I have been a Subject; the other Democracy, and extends its Jurisdiction throughout that part of the Country known by the Name of the Mint, which Government is exercis'd by a Triunvirate, call'd Stewards; who sit to dispatch Affairs of State, at three Principal Offices, which are at so many Entrances into their Dominions. Each of these is attended by six Representatives of the People, who bear the Character of Beadles, with their Subaltern Officers, under the Appellation of Spirits; these execute the Commands of their Rulers. The People of this Government, are known by the Denomination of Shelterers; while we are dignify'd by the Title of Benchers. There happen'd at at a Coffee House here last Week, to be a mixt Company of Benchers and Shelterers

[ 19 ]

among whom a Dispute arose, which were to be accounted most Honourable. The first Alledg'd, that their Government bring Monarchical, It must be allow'd the most Glorious Species of Dominion, and that from the most Illustrious Presidents: That one Supreme Being rul'd in Heav'n; One Sun Govern'd the Day, one Moon the Night; The Beasts acknowledg'd the Lion's Supremacy; the Birds, the Eagles, &c. The Shelterers added, and one Devil Rules in Hell, doubless the Damn'd much value their Happiness upon it: But allowing the Monarch's proper Station to be Glorious, the Subjects suffer Slavery, Comparatively to the Immunites enjoy'd by a Free-People. Upon that said a Natural Person (who had Superceeded his Actions which render'd him a Prisoner, but continued a Shelterer for fear of more) Let us decline Arguments on Government in General, and stike to the Merits of the Causes, which brought us all hither, and allow the Preference to that Party, which can plead most Honour in their proper Circumstances. On that (said the Benchers[)], we come hither in a Legal way, having Honourably surrender'd to our Bail; You come in Defiance of the Legislative Power, where you liv'd; and Maintain your Selves here by Force and Violence, like the Banditti and Wild Arabs. Said the other, if you value your Selves so much upon being Prisomrs, 'tis what we all might have been with Ease, had we been so Charm'd with that Condition of Life, as to have Sacrific'd our Entire Liberty to it, You might, indeed, (said the Others) have been Prisoners, and Dependants on the Basket, but few of you are able to purchase Chamber-Rent and the Rules, or have so much Reputation left, as to procure Security for the last: We stay Abroad as long as we can, in hopes of proving Solvent to our Creditors, you come only with Design to Defraud 'em. But you must Grant (Answer'd the Shelterers) that all our Proceedings are Mannag'd by the strictest Rules of Honour after our Arrival to this Place, which may Attone for former Slips; when a Bailiff, his follower, or Setter, are but suspected to be such, a Jury Sits on him for Probation, before Execution. We neither Protest a Person who has refus'd to Surrender to his Bail, nor a Bankrupt, who has not submitted to Conditions impos'd by Law; nor yet a Rascal, who has newly taken up Goods, on purpose to Cheat Honest Men; this all the World say of us, the World (argu'd the Benchers) do say this of you, but not in Respect to your Reputation, but rather by way of Sarcasm, that such a Villain, not even Shelterers Will Protect. Admitting (said the Shelterers) your Honour outshines ours; yet our Liberty exceeds yours; one Day in Sev'n being our own, where we please; and many Wisemen, have Sacrific'd their Honour to the Enjoyment of their Liberty. Many Knaves have (reply'd the other), but our Liberty every Day is more extensive than yours: In Term time under Protection of a Ticket, we can Rove where we please with Impunity; and every Morning can go to Prayers at St. George's Church, into which you dare not thrust your Noses. As often as you do thrust your Nose, (said the other) and we believe a Privation of that Liberty, wou'd as little Affect you, as us. — Upon this the Mob in the Street, Cry'd out, a

[ 20 ]

Bailiff, a Bailiff, a Bailiff; away [scowr'd?] the Shelterers to fill up the Cry, and assist the execution, and le[f]t the Benchers the Glory of the Field. As Contests often arise here on these Matters, so when any other Arguments are offer'd Pro or Con; the[y?] shall faithfully be convey'd to you by, Sir,

Yours, & c.

LETTER VIII.

SIR,

I Have hither'o declin'd giving any Account of the Fair Sex, because the Task is almost as difficult, as [i]t wou'd be otherwise agreeable; since 'tis almost impossible to write any thing New on that Subject; but upon Re-cogitation, that some Qualifications shine more eminently in 'em here, than in those among you, I'll acquaint you with what has as yet come to my knowledge on that Head. The common sort appear, not only People of another World, but also to be Form'd out of other Matter, than those with you are; or rather out of a Complication of Ingredients; their Hydes of Wenscoat, their Hearts of Marble, and their Tongues of Bell-Metal: But, indeed, the Female Mob every where, are a kind of Antidotes, against all Inclinations to the Sex. But there are another sort, viz. Citizen's young Wives, who redeem the Reputation, the other loose; these used to be communicative of their Blessings, while among you, or all our Poets and Ballad-singers are Romancers: But now their Opportunities give 'em greater Indulgence, from their Husband's Restraint, than they had on that side, from an Excuse to a Morning-Lecture, or a Visit to a Country Cousen. They have often occasion also, to visit young Lawyers at their Chambers, who are generally better bred, and of a more merciful Disposition, than to deny Succour to Ladies in Distress; nor is th[e] Husband much wrong'd hereby, since he may have sufficient left for himself: Besides how can he expect Relief in his Wants, when he refuses to others, an Over plus he has no occasion for. They have often frequent Opportunities for Assignations at Shanks's Gardens, with our young Benchers, who are seldom brought hither, for being Bankrupt'd in their Stock of Assurance; it wou'd be very ungenerous to decline their Favours to such, as risk the Terrours of Escape-Warrants for their Sakes, some ancient Residents likewise are here, who have young Daughters which have too much Filial Duty, to see their aged Parents want, when they can relieve 'em, and by such agreeable Means. But what we most abound in, are Zantippe's; even enough to give occasion for the Founding a College of philosophers; and such (as upon a just use made of their Lectures) might out-shine Socrates himself. If he arriv'd to such a prodigious Fortitude of 'Mind, exemplified in the Virtue of Patience, under the Batteries of a Clack, he cou'd withdraw from at pleasure, what sublimity had he reach'd, had his Ears been chain'd to it, as it happens here. Besides, the Zantippe's here, have much the advantage of Fuel to feed their Flames over what his had, by eternally ringing out, Are these the Effects of your Vows of everlasting Love, when you court d ne [?] to bring me to a Prison at last! This the Consequence of your Matrimonial Vow, of endowing me with all your Worldly Goods, to run out on Drinking and Whoring all the Fortune I brought you! Tho' the poor Man may be conscious that all his Misfortunes happen by unavoidable Accidents and Disappoimnients, or perhaps wholly occasion'd by her Vanity and Extravagance, he must not oppose one Word to her Juniper-Lecture, for then away she is fled to her Friends, to inform 'em, he has not only ruin'd her, but to make her more miserable, is constantly abusing of her, so gains a double share of Compassion, leaving him to starve. If Socrates improv'd his Philosophy in so high a Degree, by Zantippe's Tongue, who was a Dove to these, to what a pitch of virtue may out Philosophers aspire on Opportunities, so superior to his. But no more of these, least I have a Peal of 'em in mine Ears, which may disable me for a second Audience. We have also Ladies of the Lake here, but they are all fire and Brimstone, and in a Fortnights time, wou‘d reduce the Fat Inn-keeper of Chelmsford (lately arriv'd) to a Skelleton; These usully ply in St. George's-Fields; and what Passengers they

[ 21 ]

meet, will scarce be able to pass that way again, a few days after. These have a sort of Government among 'em, and own a sturdy Queen for their Royal Sovereign; one, who when she meets with any Interlopers, beats 'em 'till they stink as bad as her self, which is in the same Degree with the black Ditch she Borders upon; the bare imagination whereof, has given me such a Surfeit, that I hope it will plead a Pardon for this abrupt Conclusion of,

Sir, Your, &c.

LETTER IX

SIR,

Your Reflection is very just, that my Narrative will remain unperfect, 'till I give you some Account of our structures, and how inhabited; which I shall therefore take this Opportunity to represent to you. Our Edfices for the most part, hold rather Proportion, with those of the ancient Stoicks, than of the Epicurians; and their Antiquity confutes that vulgar Error, that our Forefathers much exceeded us in Height, since a Middle-siz'd Man now, will near touch the Ceilings; However, were they Lofty, they wou'd hold with the Models of your Modern Palaces, viz. one Pair of Stairs and a Cock-loft. The Inside-Walls retain their Original Whiteness, except where they are disguis'd, with smoak, sooty Serges, or the Story of Nebuchadnezzar; and tho' the Rooms are not scented with rich Gums, yet they smell full as strong as if they were. The Landlady of the first I enter'd, I wou'd have sworn to have been a Witch, by her Wayward Look, and her Brats, her Familiars, by their Frightful Aspects, and was just upon enquiring of her, after the Destiny af an old Aunt of mine, who hath long grown too Good for this World; but that I soon found her Knowledge extended no further, than to let a Price upon her Lodgings, which was more for one Month, than all the Furniture of her Fabrick was worth, with her own Accoutrements thrown into the Bargain. However, this is a kind of a Mock-London, for we have our Lombardstreet as well as you; but no Bankers in it, Lolling in their gilt Coaches, maintain'd by Extortion; no Lending of Money at 40 per Cent, Discount to young Merchants for defraying Customs, with a Pledge of Well-stock'd Warehouses for Security besides. No supplying the Extravagances of young Heirs, to the Distruction of their Families, with the like Discounts, besides Interest and a good Mortgage. No entring on Possession of Estates, immediately upon Forfeiture, except a round Sum of Continuation Money be instantly paid: So far are our Lombardians from coveting such heaps of Gold by Oppression, that few of 'em remember what Colour that Metal is of; but on the contrary, one shall be contented with the modest Profit he can raise from a Wheelbarrow of Turnips; another, instead of having his shop glittering with polish'd plate and jewels, to the hurting the Eyes of Passengers, shall think it sufficiciently Furnish'd with a parcel of Mouse-Trap, Savealls and Nutcrackers, while their Wives instead of shining with Diamonds, Tissues, and Brocades, humbly content themselves with Stalls of Gingerbread, Apples, and Cabbages; or with the Heeling of old Hose. Nor do they, like yours, require large Rooms with stately Furniture, for fear of being stifled in too strait Compass, but frugally crowd a Family in a Room, where their steam supplies the want of Coals, to keep 'em warm. One Tribe fills the Celler, where they Lye, Eat and Drink, and perform all the other Offices of Nature; whose Vapours all ascend, at the opening the Mouth of their Cave in the Morning, to the Offence of none but queazie Stomachs. The Rooms higher are stock'd with so many Families of Shelterers, who are little Sollicitcus for the Barrocading their Apartments, since their happy Circumstances put 'em out of danger of being plunder'd. We have also our Exchange-Alley, but it is not made a Decoy like yours, to Trepan all the fat Geese of the Nation: We have none of that cursed Brood of Brokers in it, who put their Tricks on honest Gentlemen, whose Honourable Principles leave no Room for Suspicion. Tempting others from a certain Dependance, to their Ruin, in hopes of being Aldermen on the suddain: They who Inhabit

[ 22 ]

this Place, are so far from such pernicious Practices, That Bank-Stock, East-India, African, South-Sea, Army Debentures, &c. are direct Arabic to' em; if one can Bilk another, in the Swop of an old Wastcoat, in a Reck'ning at Skittles, the palming a Die, or neat Conveyance of a Card at All-Fours, tis all the Cunning they pretend to. Here's a Cheapside likewise, but no Female Shop-keeper behind the Counter, trick'd up like Maremaids above, and all Fish below. No Airy Sempstresses disposing of their Heads to the Bells[?], and their Tails to the Beaux: No Indian Houses to manage Intriegues between a Rakish Spendthrift, and an old Aldermans young Wife, no sparkish Linnen-Drapers themselves at a Horse-Race, their Wives at the Playhouse, and both their Fortunes left at the Mercy of a yousng Prig of a Prentice, who all the while is playing at Bo-peep with the Chamber-Maid. No such Exorbitances as these Reign in this place; but a Topping Shop-keeper shall condescend to the Disposal of old Rags, which appear Animated, while they are born about by Numbers of Living Supporters: Another to the Clouting a stubborn pair of Shoes; a third to the Correcting a pair of ancient Breeches, which have out-liv'd all their Original Materials; while their Wives are so far from the vanity of Dress, that a strong blast of Wind wou'd leave 'em stark Naked; and much after this manner 'tis in all Streets Synonymous with yours. Tho' these Matters may appear course to those of an Elegant Tast; yet they of a more solid judgment will confess, that People in such humble Employments, may be more truly Honourable, than such whose Greatness owes its Foundation, and Protection to Knavery; But I must not pretend to Moralize to a Person, who has a Genius infinitely Brighter for such Speculations than,

Sir, Yours, &c.

LETTER X.

SIR,

Since I apprehend by your last, that you design to expose my LETTERS to the Publick, I intreat the Favour at your Hands of adding the following Caution, viz. That tho' I seem'd to expose to Redicule, Officers of the Army, Gentlemen, Merchants, Poets, &c. I intended none of the Reflections on any, who are really such, It being well known, that we have divers here, under all those Denominations, who are as well-Descended, as full Gentlemen, of as bright Parts, and as much Honour, as any in the Kingdom, who have been brought hither by unavoidable Misfortunes; and who thro' a consciousness of their own just Principles, enjoy (even under Restraint) a more real Tranquility, and Serenity of Mind, than their Cruel prosecutors; No, all the Sarcasms are alone levell'd at such, whose Folly and Vanity is so great, that even Afflictions cannot retrench them; such as affect Attributes in the lowest Ebb of Fortune, to which they were strangers in their most flourishing Circumstances; As such they are the Jest of Men of Sense here, so I hope a just Description of 'em may give you some Diversion, for tho' this Place be to Persons of your Quality a Terra Incognita; yet I have not done like Geographers, who fill up their Maps of such Places with figures of their own Invention, some Beautiful Creatures, and some Monsters, but all of 'em such as those Countries never saw nor knew, no Sir, I can assure you the Rarities mentioned in these Memoirs are all Realities, and what Hisce Ovidis vidi. I am, Sir,

Your most Obedient Servant, &c.

ERRATA

Page 10, line 3. for Attendance, read Attendants, Page 14, line 18, for Perticularly, read Particularly.

FINIS.

