Poor ROBIN'S

Intelligence Reviv'd ;

OR, A

NARRATIVE

Of the late Dreadful

BATTELS

BETWEEN

The Potent Prince de l'OR,

And the Grand Duke of

PENURIA, alias RAGLAND;

Giving an Account

Of their respective Forces, Allies, Numbers of Men

Kill'd and taken Prisoners, &c.

Together with the

Articles of Peace

at last Concluded between them.

With Allowance.

LONDON : Printed for L. C. 1678.

[2]

A NARRATIVE

Of the late Dreadful BATTELS.

---

IN this Age of more than Athenian Curiosity, when prating of Affairs of State and publick Occurrences, is become so much the Mode, that people can scarce meet together at Church, without inquiring what News abroad, I thought it might be a grateful discovery to publish the Trans- actions between these two mighty Empires; in whose Traverses

of War, the vulgar Reader, I am confident, is asmuch concerned,

as in some others that have cost him many adish of Tatling-

Broth, and ounce of Sot-weeds and therefore cannot with any

colour of Reason grudge the expence of his other odd Twopence

for suchimportant Intelligence.

The Prince del', may justly be accounted one of the most

redoubted Potentates on earth. His Hereditary Dominions

were anciently the East andWest Indies, but oflate he hath at-

tempted an Universal Monarchy in Christendome : 'tis be that

CreatesCardinals at Rome, be that dubs Knights atMalta;nay,

'tis be admits even Senators at Venice, and Brethren into the.

pretended Societyof Jesus. Most Kingdomes and States court

hisAlliance, and the Popehimself is more than suspected to be

his Pensioner. His Subjects, though not exceedingNumerous ,

are very powerful, Haughty, Ambitious, desirous of Glory, and

notable Politicians ; hardly drawn to venture intodangers, but

when once engaged, full of a thousand Intrigues and Strata-

gemes topreferve their Interests : and whatthey obtain, you

maybe surethey will keep, which (let me tell you) is one of

the best points of arightvaliant Souldier.

Would you know who are oppose se puissantand formidable

aMonarch ? 'Tis that warlike Tamberlain, Pendicolo

Duke of Ragland, Son of the Invincible Empress Necefity,

famous through the Worldfor his Courage, and Ability to en-

dure

[3]

dure the fatigues of Want andHardship : His people far exceed

the other in Multitudes, but are rude, unarmed, and without

Discipline ; yet ingenious, (for Clit is properly a Native of

this Country, but thrives best int'other) full of Inventions

naturally quarrelsome, repining, audacious and greedy to engage

the Adverfary : for none are so apt for Stirs and Commotions ,

as those that have nothing to lose.

The Dominions of these two Grandees lye intermixt, rather

than bordering ; and have continual need of Commerce with, and

Supplies from each other : and yet it hasbeen observed, That in

allAges there have been Irreconcileable Fewds, heart-burnings, and

secretAnimosities between them. SeveralTreaties andLeagues

ofPeace they have had, which all proved (as is usual in such

cafes) only convenient.Ambuscades for better opportunities of

War : For it is a Dotage equal to the belief of Charms, to imagine, That a few weakWords can blunt the edge of a keenm

Sword, or binde the powerful beyond their Interest, anymore

than a twinedthread could setter Sampson.

But of late sturdier Differences have arose, andComplaints

grown more thickand loud on either fide, sothat both Parties

resolved for open War, as the only Salve for open wrong.

Poverty (for thatHeralds finde to be the mostantientTitle of

our Duke of Ragland) having inhisTrain so many Poets, and

small Philosophers, could not want aManifesto of hisGrievances

drawn up after the best Fashion ; setting forth,

That whereas by antient Fundamental Laws, the Favourites of

Riches were obliged to protect and relieve his gaffing and tattered

Offspring their breasts were now swelled with Pride and Covetous

ness, proportionably as their Coffers with Treasures: So that those

Cubs of Fortune (blinde as their Dam) not only withdrew such

accustomed Auxiliaries, but likewise had committed many Outrages

onhis Subjects and Confederates, having lately murdered one of bis

ancient and most dear Allies, called Hospitality, by driving a

Coach full of Ladies and fix horses over him ; and destroyed ano-

ther named Charity, by banishing him from their Gates into the

wide world, where he was frozen to death, or, as some say, eaten up

byA2

234

by a Kennel of Hounds. Besides all this, theybadstudiedso many

Stratagems, of Usury, Extortion, Procuration, Continuation,

Racking ofRents, Monopolizing and Ingrossing Commodities,

pinching Labourers of their Wages, beating downthe prices of

Manufactures, snapping ofForfeitures, and screwing up an ad-

vantage from poor Tradesmens necessities, as bad cut all the

Nerves of Industry, and left the poor Souls oncly a Choice worse

than Hobson's, viz. Famine, Gallows, orWhipping-polt ; take

which they have most fancyfor.

Onthe other fide, Riches ( or the Prince De l'D, if

you please, all's one in the Original) was not behind-hand in a

Declaration : For those that have Money shall never want

mercenary Advocates amongst the Book-men to justific the worst

of their Actions.

He fet forth at large the Insolence of these RaggedComplain-

ants " That they were the Pest of Society, the Scandal of

Government, the Vermine that confum'd the Body Politick ;

" that abandoningthemselves to Lazineß and Beggery, they liv'd

" upon the Spoils of Industry, and abusedCharity : And there-

" fore, without diminution to his ownGlory, he could no longer

" bearwith such mischievous and sawcyRaggamuffins, who were

"tobe extirpated with as much diligence as ourAncestors used

in the destruction of Wolves and Foxes.

Things beingat this pass, you may cafily imagine a Rupture

must ensue. But because great Actions require confiderable

Allies, each Party in the first place entred into renewed

Leagues of Confederacy with their respective Friends..

The

Asistants of Poverty

were

,

.Discontent, Aperson of afullenCountenance and MelancholyCom-

plexion, that always walks with his Hat over his Eys, and hisArms across,

muttering like a Witch saying her Pater nofter backwards. He complains to

longofwant, when he wantsnothing but to know what hewould have

that at last (and deservedly) he comes towantindeed.

2. Despair, A near Kinsman of the former, and sworn Brother to Poverty,

AmeerAtheist as to Religion, and aTyrant worse than Procruftes ; hated

bythe common people for his Cruelty, because if he got any one into his

clutches, hepresently hangedhim up.

3. Sloth, and Carelesness, Two Princes that are Cousen-Germans, but

hothsotroubled with the Gout, That they concern themselves little with

State.

1

[5 ]

State-masters : for they reckon the Summer too hot, and the Winter tor

cold to make any Expedition in ; and lovenothing so much as agoodfire ,

and a Feather-bed : Their Arms are three Graboppers Cantant, and aDor-

mousesomniant ; with this Motto ; Let the world flide. They are likewise

nearly related to Boverty, andvery rarely out of his Company.

4. Repining, The only person that whet.ed on the Duke andhis Sub-

jects to these Wars; for hecould by no means abide the Prince de l'Da's

people; anditfrettedhim more to see any of them thrive, than if him-

Telfhadfallen into thegreatest calamiry.

5 Don Projectors, Duke of the Brain-pan Windwills; One that had

the sameMortalGrudge against Riches, as a cast-offLover that rails at his

Mistress becausehecannot catch her : He had Courted De l', with a

thousandDevifes, as Perpetual Motions, the Longitude, Philosophers whet-stone,

Art of makingGlass malleable, andBlanching of Blackanoors, &c. But not

beingable to obtain so much as a place below stairs in his Court, after a

tedious attendance, was glad to lift himselfunder the Adversaries Standard,

andserve Poverty, as aVolunteer for term of life.

6.

Signior

Gulletto

Marquess

of Bowzington

;

he had formerly been a Favorite of Prince

de

l'Dr

,

but

having swallowed

his

Patrimony

,

oneday

when he was drunk after too plentiful a

Dinner

,

he happened

to spew in his

Soveraigns face

;

whereupon

he

was

banisht

for seven years

into

the

Defarts

of

Lobspoundia

,

and

then turned everlasting Renegado to the Duke of Ragland .

Lastly, Duke Humphrey, Earl of Hungary, an Excellent Souldier thathad

overthrown moreArmies than Cefar, and never failed of speeding at a

Siege; for he there behaves himself with such Resolution, that no stone-

wall (of what height or strengthfoever) is able to hold out against hima

As for de l'Di, you need not doubt but he was well Befreinded

his principal Allies were ,

1. Covetousnels, a wretched old meager chapp'd fellow, whose Eyes

were funk (like aCandle in the socket) two inches into his Head, yet cont

tinually Rouling withan impiousLonging toget into his Clutches everys

thinghe looktupon, (exceptHeaven, and thathe never card for.) Hewas

properly asubject to poverty, being more indebted to hisBelly, than his

Head was worth, and lived altogether as wretchedly as the meanest of

Mendicofo's Vassals: Nor could he be much in favor with de l'Dt, since he

hadkepthim close Prisoner, not permitting him to feethe Sun (though his

own Father that begot him) for many years together ; yet in this Exigency

against the common Enemy his Affiance was embraced.

C

2. Parcimony, Anafty Batchelor of Fourscore, that wears hisCleachs,

as longas the Israelites in theirpassage toCanaan, and will rather change his;

Religion twenty times, thanhisDoublet once; he seems to beWespasians

Heir, for he makes his Pifs-potpay him Contribution ; keeps the parings

of his Nails to make Horn-sparrables, and fellstheClippings of hisBeard

to

stuff Tennis Balls with

... Π

3. Violence, an Antient Courtier, andchief Minister to Abab, when he

seiz'd Naboths Vineyard : He knows no Lawbut his Wall, porReligionbuthis

235

[6]

his Interest:Menworship him as Indians do the Divel, for fear rather

than love ; forhis power canbaffle Justice at pleasure, and was the first

that made the Proverb Canonical, Might overcomes Right.

4. Deceit, one that looks a little a squint, but of sodeep a reach, that

he sometimes fetches over Covetuousness in spight ofall his caution ; he

is thought to be the By-blow of aLawyer, beget on aTown-Jilt, and bred

up in the Kings-Bench-Rules ; yetTradesmen intirely love him, and he

has more followers than Nailor, Muggleton, or that Belweather of Faction

Smedtymnuus himself : you may know him bya perpetual fleer in his face ;

aFrenchHeart, and aDutchHead ; or aQuakers outside, and a Jesuitical

Lining. :

5. Uhury, An old Hee-bawd, the first that taught Money tocommit Incest,

for the Letchery ofTen in the hundred. He seems agreat House-keeper ; for

there are thousands in the City live upon him ; and yetthere is no more

Conscience in him than in Tavern Fagets. He is aperson of Quality and Of-

fice, being the Divels Tole-taker on Earth ; and whenhedies, lies magni-

ficentlyEntombed with his Ancestors in the brightest Vault ofHell.

Cum multis aliis .

Affairs being thus far rippened for War, the Drums beat up for Volunteers

oneach fide; and 'tis incredible to think what vast Numbers from all

Quarters flocktin, to the Standard of Poverty.

The first that offered themselves were a Troop of Indigent Scholars in

threadbare Black, that had just Learning enough to beg their Bread in se-

veral Languages ; they made such haft to fuccour their old Acquaintance

the Duke ofRagland, that manyof them had scarce time to putonany shooesontheir feet: Their Weapon was the fift of Logick wichwhich, and the

Two-edged Sword of Distinction, and some small-shot of Pedantry, they

havedoneChristendome as much mischief, as ever it sustainedfrom Goths

and Vandals.

,These were followed by a Regiment of Journeymen-Tailors eachtwenty

thousand strong, Cleathednot, asAdam, inFig Leaves, but more service-

able Cabbadge : Their outside wasvery gay with Lace and Ribbons, though

both their Pockets andBellies wanted Ammunition ; and they would be sure to have Rufled-cuffs, though no Shirts. In a word, they were people

of an Invincible Stomack, and offered to serve Poverty, with their Lives

andFortunes, for an halfpenny brown George aday and Cucumbers.

Nota few, Itinerate Worthies of the Gentle Craft, having Mortgaged St.

HughsBones for Liquor to make them valiant, entered the service, swearing theywould every Mothers Son outdo the Exploits of Hewson andSt.

Crispin. With them joined a multitude of Weavers, running as swift as

their Shuttle, and with as good will as if they had gone against the Common Enemy. aldar 2017 1941001

ATroop of younger Brothers, offered themselves to be of the Duke of De

nuria's Lifeguard : for though they had nothing to loose, yet they thought

they might gain a Knighthood, which wo shipfulBait might draw over some

richWiddows of the Prince de l'Di's Party to nibble at it.

To attendthem, came in a Company ofold Serving-men ; which weremade

[7]

made Canonneers, becausethey hadfuch experience in Charging and Dif-

charging the Great LeathernBombard.

Inthe Rear, seaven thousandBankrupts presented their service ; butwere

entertain'd with some diffidence, because anumber of Poverty's Army

exclaimed against them, as the rankest Villains in aCommon-wealth ,

havingundonethem, their Wives and Children, and holding a secret Cor-

respondence with the Enemy ; however, at length they were received, and

hadtheordering of all Fire works, Mines, and Countermines, as being the

rarest Artists for damnable and speedyBlowing up in any Assault. {

But notwithstanding these and many other Volunteers, the Camp of

Riches was much better furnisht and provided. And now Ads ofHoftility

began on either fide.

First there issued out of the Army of the Prince del'Da, underthe Com-

mand of Count Ignoramus Knaveskull, three Battalions of Petti-foggers ,

who falling amongst the Enemy, put the poor Bumkins into great confufi-

on, utterly ruining a confiderable Party, and taking many Prison :

which they more easily effected, because they fought with white Powder, and

forced the fillyRaskals always to pay them Contribution towards ther own

undoing.

Togive some diversion to these mischievous Assailants, Poverty fent

forth a Forlorn-Hope of Knights of the Post, Trepans, Forgers of Deeds, and

Suborners of Evidence ; together with an Ambuscade of Prior Mortgages, An-

tient Intails, Concealed Statutes, and Darmant Judgments, flankt with a re-

serve ofvexatious Paupers ; who did notable service against the Enemy, and

fomuch incommoded them, that they knew not which way toturn, and

wereglad to quit several advantagious Posts theyhad formerly obtained.

Somefew days after, happened afierce Rencounter between a Legion of

Ale-drapers, Brokers, and Tally-men, on the one part ; and a Squadron of

Town- Bullies, whetstone-Park-Ladies, Oyster-women, Boxe-Lace-makers, Kitchin-

stuff- merchants, Broom-Jobbers, and other united Troops of Kent-street, Sharps-

Alley, Turmil-street, St. Gilfes, whitechappel, wapping, and Matton- Lane

whereinthe former being re-inforcedby a Detachment of Bum-Bailies, and

Marshals-men, after several br'sk Assaults, routed the latter : However, the

Bullies secured their Retreat into Alsatia. The whetstoneers came to an ho-

norable Composition : but the rest were so miserably pillaged, that they

had scarce a tatter left to cover them .

In the mean time Riches published an Ordinance, strialy Commanding

all Lords of Mannors, Landlordsieminent Merchants (especially Incorporated)

wealthy Farmers, Graziers, and Money-boarders, That they should immediate-

ly, and from time to time inhance the price of Corn and Provisions, en-

gross all gainful Commerce andCommodities, inclose all Commons, turn

outoldTenants, or renew their Leases not without excessive Fines ; break

upHouse-keeping, and retire in Hackney-Coaches to the City, whilst theis

Tenants and Dependants starv'd in the Countrey ; pull down allAlms-

houses and Hospitals, or (which is as bad)divert their Revenues quite con

trary to the Founders Intent ; and in general, not to hold the least Corref-

pondence with the subjects of poverty, but force them, out of pure wantand

236

1

[8]

and necessity to return to their obedience ; or rather, utterly rout them out from off the face of the earth .

To countermine these Stratagems, Poverty dispatches a Company of needy Gallants

tnto

the Enemies Territories, who did wonderful execution : For in less than

one Months

ime

,

by the help of false Dice and

falser Mistresses

,

Horse

-

racings

,

Cock

-

fightings

,

Sure-

tiships,

and

continual

Debauches

,

two

Thousand Country - Squires, Aldermens Sons, andother Cullies of eminent note, heretofore in the Prince de L'or's Court ,

were brought in Prisoners to their Garrison of Beggars - bush

.

Besides

,

he hired a parcel of

Hackney- Clerks, and Small Conveyancers, who getting secretly into the Enemies Magazine, by leaving

out

,

or

razing Ses

Heirs

,

In

perpetuum

,

Warrant

&

Defend

'

Quit

-

claim

,

Solvendums,

Habendums

,

Tenendums

,

and

such other

Quilletical

Proviso's

,

rendered their Ammunition unserviceable . Thereby betraying

fair

Estates

,

as fast as heretofore Towns surrendred to French Pistols

.

The War being maintained thus obstinately, a sad Accident hapned in the Camp of Riches: For a terrible new Disease, worse than the Griping of the Guts, called The gnawing of the Conscience, got amongst them, which seized them with violent Vomitings to cast up their ill gotten Wealth .

The

Usurers

,

as

they

were one Night keeping Guard over their beloved Bags, were frighted out of their senses by the Ghosts of certain Widows and Orphans; and the Brokers ran up and

down

raving

-

mad

,crying

,

The Devil! The Devil!

On the other side the Troops of Poverty were reduced to extraordinary hardships. Their Souls were desperate, and their Bodies confirmed; weary of their Lives, and yet compelled to live for further Miseries : So that both States being almost ruined by these Contentions ,

began now to wish for Peace . Whereupon Chanity and Industry ( the first revived by the help of an unknown Rosie - crucian Doctor, and the latter recall'd from Banishment) undertook to be Mediators between them ,by whose good offices, inshorttime, a firm League was concluded on these Articles;

Power.

1. That from and after the One and thirtieth day of September next happening, all Hostilities shall cease ; and thence forward the Rich shall not inany place or kinde insult over nor oppress the Poor ; but

employ

, cherish

,

and relieve them, to the best of their 2. That the Poor shall abandon their oldLeague withPride and Laziness,

and

joyning in withContent and Diligence, shall no longer envy, nor repine at a new

and

firm

Alliance

the

Rich

.

3. That Poverty's Subjects should be ever in a readineß ( as the Switzers are for pay ) to fight for Money, ifshe craved their aid; and that that Money in requital, should help them, whensoever theystoodin need.

4.

And

lastly

,For

a

a

firm

firm

Foundation

of

future

Amity

,

since

they

were twoNations

fo

mighty

,

fo

nearly allied

by

Blood

,

so

dispersed into all the parts

of

the

world

,

and

yet

fo

mingled

together

,

that

it

was

impossible to

fever

the

them

:

By mutual Consent a Laro was madez ThatFortune should uld be longer Blinde ; but that all the Do & ors and Surgeans should by their Elixars

and

Skill

help her

to

ber

Eyes

, that

she

may

bence forwards

fee those

,

upon

whom

The

bestowes

ber

Blessings

.

Because

hitherto

Fools

have been by her served with Wealth, which they knew n bow to use ; andWife- men sent away ( like Beggars from a Mifersgate )

with

empty

Wallets

.

110

not

٤٠ A

These Articles being mutually Signed and Ratified, the Armies broke up, Trade was set at Liberty; the Rich men began to Feast one another, ( as they were wont to do ) and the Poor were kept poor still : Some had too much, some too little, and none enough: and so it will be to the End of the Chapter.

FINIS.

