A

True Description

OF THE

MINT

Giving an Account of its first becoming a Place of Refuge for Debtors; the Extents of its Antient and Modern Limits, the Manners, Ways, and Customs of the Inhabitants: with their Character, Nature and Temper.

AS ALSO

Their LAWS and METHOD of Punishing a BAILIFF and his Follower, or Setter, with the OATH they cause him to take: And several other things, relating to the MINT in General.

Quid non, mortalia pectora cogis Auri sacra fames. Virg.

LONDON Printed, and Sold by A. Baldwin in Warwick Lane, and T. Harrison, at the West-end of the Royal Exchange, Cornhill 1710.

TO THE

Gentry of the MINT,

Howsoever Distinguish'd, whether

BENCHERS or SHELTERERS.

Gentlemen,

I Do not doubt but I shall have many a bitter Curse for my Definition of the Mint, but 'tis below me to take notice of those Curs, who can only Grin and not Bite. I follow the Golden Rule of rendering to every Man what is his Due. I Appeal to You, who are the properest Judges, for the Truth of the following Relation: And if I am a little Severe on the Mob, (those Shrubs, that Live under you tall Cedars) I hope I make Amends in wiping off the Odium which is so universally cast upon the people of the Mint. By declaring everything at large (tho in few Words) I am Confident I have brought over a great many to Favour you, who being Prejudiced before (esteeming this Place much worse than the fryars, in obstructing

the Execution of Justice) are sensible of their Error, in setting every thing in a clear Light.

The antient Romans Conquer'd much, and lost it again; but You, like a careful, provident, industrious Heir, keep entire not only what was left you, but have increas'd your Patrimony, remembring the Words of the Poet,

Non minor est virtus quam quaerere parta tueri.

May your Power, your Priviledges, and your Liberties never be diminished, but increased rather than lessen'd: For, as a late Judge said, they that are Confin'd there (meaning the Mint) suffer Misery enough: So may the Higher Power say to you, as Venus did to AEneas,

Perge modo et qua te ducit via dirige gressus.

This is the sincere Desire, and shall be back'd, upon Occasion, by the small Interest of,

Gentlemen, Your Humble Servant;

A True Description of the

Mint and Minters.

THERE are few People, I believe, so very Ignorant, but know that a Mint is a place appointed for Coining, or making the Lawful Money of the Realm; and 'tis from hence, that the Subject of the following Treatise does originally derive its Name. I shall not trouble my Reader with its Chronology, let it be sufficient to assure him, that it is of greater Antiquity than the Fryars, or any other Place that usurp'd a Priviledge; and we may reasonably conclude, that it is preferable and superior to them, not only from its retaining its Customs, when those others are abolish'd and destroy'd, but for many other Reasons, which shall be made appear in their proper place.

O Mint! Thou kind and hospitable Hostess, who readily dost stretch forth thy Arms to embrace those that will fly unto thee, who refuseth not to Shelter all that will come under thy Wing! May you always be thus favourable. Thou, who art the Defender of the Fatherless, Supporter of the Widow, and Succourer of the poor insolvent Debtor; who being Protected by thee, can safely take his Rest, secure from the devouring Jaws of the insatiable Creditor: May your good Intentions prosper, your Power be continued, and may you ever remain without Corruption or Dissention.

Tho' some People repine at this place of Refuge,

( 6 )

and endeavour all they can to Destroy those that are in it; yet after all, 'tis but a kind of Purgatory, or Middle-state, a Medium between close Confinement, and absolute Liberty. And if our Freedom be an estimable Jewel, a Purchase we would not part with, it must certainly be a great Mortification to any Man, that is depriv'd of it six Days in seven, who being penn'd up in such narrow Compass, dares not stir beyond its Precincts, without running the greatest Risque imaginable.

Had they to whom we are Indebted, any Compassion, were they endu'd with the least Grain of Charity, they could not but think this Place a sufficient Punishment for those they Compel to remain here: But such is the Malice, such the Avarice of some Men, that tho' they are sensible that the Person they Arrest has not wherewith to Pay them, nay, can scarce get Bread to eat, yet will they call him Head-long into a Goal; and thereby not only render him utterly incapable of ever giving them what is their Due, but the poor Prisoner must Perish in a short time, and leave his Bones to Satisfy their greedy Minds.

I am Confident, there is no Debtor would willingly abide here, could he Live safely in another Place; for the anxious Thoughts of being in continual Jeopardy if he stirs abroad, and his being Confin'd to the various Humours of the confused Multitude, the medly of people that is in the Mint, is enough to Distract him For 'tis here, as in Charon's Boat, you must throw off your Pride, be prepar'd for long-Suffering, and cloath yourself with Humility and Patience (of which you had need have a large Stock) and retain nothing but Money to Defray the Charges of your Residence; for no longer Pipe, no longer Dance.

I cannot Treat so Distinctly (as I do design) of the Liberties, Privilidges, Laws, and Customs of this Place;

( 7 )

nor the Manners, (which are very few) Nature, and Temper of the People, without making a Distinction of the Inhabitants, or Body Politick; which is a Compound of Three, or to speak more intelligibly, is divided into Three Ranks, or Classes, the Benchers, Shelterers, and the Minters.

And as there is a small Dispute, who it was that first brought up, and who it is that does at present maintain and uphold the Priviledges of the Mint; I shall endeavour to end the Difference, and set these matters in a clear Light: In order to which, I must begin with the first Branch of my Division, namely, the Benchers.

I. Of the BENCHERS.

These are a mixture of all Degrees of Mankind, who are either Arrested, and so Confin'd by a Queen's-Bench-Writ, or else they remove themselves hither from Other Prisons (the Fleet excepted) by Virtue of an Habeas Corpus. The Rules or Liberties of the Queen's-Bench were in former Days very small; they reach'd out from a little below the Prison to St. George's Church, including one side of it; but in process of time, the Mint was annex'd thereto, which extended as far as the present Sign of the Two Fighting Cocks Westward, and was border‘d on the South with the Ditch which divides it from St. George's Fields; and at the North-side it had a Gate at the hither-end of White-Cross-street. These were the Antient Boundaries of the Mint.

Now, to undeceive the Reader, who may think perhaps, that every Prisoner has the Liberty of the Rules of the Bench, I must acquaint him, that this Favour is granted only to such as can Purchase it, and give

( 8 )

Security for their not running away; tho' rather than fail, their own Bond, with a handsome Gratuity, will serve; the Nature of performing it is thus. You either get some Friend who is acquainted with the Marshal, or else you go to him yourself, and make your Conditions upon as easy Terms as you can; but you must consider, that nothing is to be done rashly, therefore a Bottle or two is a good Preparative. Neither must you Repine if you do not accomplish your Design the first time; for as he cannot tell how many Actions you have charg'd against you, and how Weighty they may be, what Character you bear, and whether your Security be substantial, so a Second or Third Meeting, you know, is very proper, for the refreshing and supporting Nature. But supposing you do bring things to bear, and obtain your Desire, yet there's Half Crown a Week for Chamber-Rent, tho' you never go near it, which must be punctually paid upon Demand, or you suffer for it severely.

Tho' some People may think 'tis very easy for those Who have the Priviledge of the Rules, to make their Escape, which is not impossible, yet is there much more Difficulty in it than at first imagin'd. For the Marshal has at least Threescore Spies, some of whom are Gentlemen, and are glad to curry Favour upon any account. These Emissaries are dispers'd into most Companies, they insinuate themselves into your Acquaintance, make private Enquiry what Hours you keep, how, or after what rate you Live, whether you have plenty of Money, and such like; and then, according to their information, they make their Report to the Marshal, so that you cannot turn any way but you have an Eye over you. But should a Prisoner escape, it would not break the Marshal's Heart, for he seldom continues longer than Three Years successively, and then exchanges

( 9 )

with the Warden of the Fleet, and are generally each others Prisoner.

I hope the Reader will pardon the Digression I am going to make, since it may be partly beneficial, not only to the Benchers, but to those whose Misfortune it may prove to be Prisoners: And first as concerning the latter; I would advise every Person that designs to turn himself over to the Queen's-Bench, to get a Friend to treat with Marshal, before he has brought his Habeas Corpus,by which means he will save considerably; for if he proffers any thing reasonably, the Marshal will be glad to accept of it, esteeming it a piece of Prudence, to play at Games rather than stand out. For, thinks he, shou'd I refuse this Offer, he will apply himself to the Warden of the Fleet, who will be glad to receive it. But if you remove your self without Compounding, then you lye wholly at his Discretion; who, if you be Fat, will have as much Mercy on you, as a Hawk has of his Prey; and before you get from under his Roof, you must expect to share the same Fate with a Sheep that comes from under a Hedge, lose a Fleece or two, and be glad you come off so well.

A Second Advice to the Benchers in general is this, Let no Man know your Concerns; make no Body acquainted with your Circumstances, neither be familiar with too many; and if you have occasion to go to to London, or elsewhere, either do it privately and singly, or go in Company with but one or two and let 'em be Persons whom you know have gone out pretty often. For if the Marshal finds you out, he immediately Calls you in, pretending you might be taken upon an Escape-Warrant, and when you are a Second Time in close Confinement, you must expect to Pay a much rounder Sum to get out, than you did for your first Enlargement.

( 10 )

II. Of the SHELTERERS, and the present Limits of the MINT.

Having Treated of the Benchers as succinctly as possible, the Shelterers follow next: And here is a Composition enough to poison the Devil; Here is Tag-rag and Bob-tail all sorts of Trades, Professions, and Religions, from the Circumcised Jew, down to the Pharisaical Christian, who, in the main, is as great a Reprobate, as any Infidel, Jew, or Heathen! Not but there are some good, honest Men, though their number is small. It may be enquir'd, how these People got footing in this place: Why truly, I design to reveal that Mystery; therefore to answer the Question the Querist must know that the Number at first was very thin; that they took Shelter under the Bencher's Wings, these were their Protectors, and they had their Invitation from them. If we give Credit to the Report of some malicious People, we shall find that this Kindness of theirs, was rather a Principle of Self-Satisfaction, than an Act of Charity to Relieve those they took under their Umbrage, as is concluded from hence. Revenge is what we are very prone too, and so depraved is Man's Nature, that instead of forgiving an Injury, he endeavours all he can to return it. Now the Bailiffs, those Caterpillars of the Nation, being the Occasion of the Benchers losing their Liberty, they invited some of their Neighbours who were about to forsake their Habitations, for fear of an Arrest, to come and Live among them; these they suppos'd would prove a Bait, a Train to get the aforemention'd Vermin within their Clutches; and then fearless of any Punishment, they cou'd inflict what Punishment on 'em they thought fit.

There were but few Houses in the Mint in those Day s, so that when any of these Riots happen'd, either

( 11 )

---

the Constables came in to seek the Offenders, or else the Sheriff rais'd the Posse and so the Shakerers \yery forc'd to fly till the Hurlpfarlj was oyer. The Nymher of those that had fled hither, increasing Daily, the Owners of the Ground thought they could nc\t by oqt their Money to better Advantage, than in Building, and truly their Gains were so considerable, that they set their Houses at any Rent, so greedy \yere the People of coming into them. It mull be confess'd, the Buchers Were the first that brought up the Priviledges of the Mint, but'tisas certain, tlWt the Shelterers do at present maintain them, and have very fnuch enlarg'd their Liberties; they have taken White^Ocfs-jlxeet of the North-fide, and bear such absolute Sway over St. Geor-gK-fitMs, nay even to Cupid's Gardens, that they will not suffer any Person to be Arrested within tUofe Lights; Nay, should a Bailiff come within Smell of those places, if they by hold on him, he is as severely Handled, as if he had come in the middle of the Mint.. Now to give cyery one his Due, let us fpcak sincerely our Opinion, and then fee if the Shelter ers have not repaid the Benchers their Civility; for auy one of them can traverse the places limited, walk to Moor^Shanks, and Drink, or play at Bowls as securely, as accompanied with an Hundred, not being in the lead Danger of being taken by an Escape-Warrant: Whereas formerly they dare not go over the Ditch on the Soath-fide, that being the ^r Stint, and they now enjoy unmolested the Benefit of the green Fields, and walk uncontrolPd-Let any impartial Man judge, which of these two forts of Men are mod; beholden to each other; truly, in my Opinion the Ubeltertrs have not only paid their Obligation to the Benchers with interest upon laterest^ but upon a Balfance of the whole, I think they brought the Benchers indebted to them. Sure that Man that had but an Hundred Found given him,is more to be Commended.

---

( 12 )

if by his industry, he increases it to a Thousand, than he, who by his Toil has made himself Master of Twenty Pounds, and will not strive to augment it, but idly Lavish it away.

Notwithstanding the Shelterers have been very great Sufferers, have been Fin'd and Impriion'd for preferring and defending their Rights; yet some of the Benchers have prov'd so Ingrateful, that they have not only refus'd to Contribute toward the Support and Relief of these poor Wretches, but have prevented others from sending their Charity, upbraiding and exclaiming against these miserable Creatures,

---

tho* they arc fer-viceable at the same time, that were it not for them, they would be Stifled, and not have a Mouthful off rest Air, Nay, so Jeslous arc these poor Souls of having the r Privileges inf ring'd, that they often Expel some '.} their own Fraternity upon Suspicion , and if any Proof can be brought againltthem, they (bow 'em no 'Compassion, thinking no Treatment too Vile for their Treachery. And as there a re Three principal Avenues or Entries ro the Msnty so have they Three Clubs, or M'etzngs, to Try and Decide whatever shall happen in their Division. But, of them hereafter.

III. Of the MINTERS.

'she Miners arc those who have been Prifor.ers formerly, and reside there still; or eife they are House-heepers, who dwell there, and go abroad at their Plead -fore. Of the latter, Sammy Greaves, a good-huenour'd) hcarijf '.W', who fears not to lhow his Face before a ' ord Mayor, God bless him: but he has a Wife, and

i. a---, so I'll say no more of her. Neither must

J pals by that facetious, jolly old Fellow, Daddy Caw* yer; for not to mention him, would be to do his Virtues Wrong. He is upwards of Seventy Years of Age, and

( 13 )

)f a strong, hail Constitution; to preserve which, he Hicks to the old Rule of going to Bed with the Lark, and rtftag agaimvith the fame: . He is a Glover and Leather-Hreeches-maker by Trade; he can earn Ten Shillings every Morning, before Ten,other Persons are out of their Beds; his Yoke is as strong as one of Five, and I must own, his judgment is not Despicable. Dear Daddy, My your Health continue in its prijline state; may you Live long and happy; and before you make jour Exit, may you leave a Race behind you, endear'd with jour: own Qualities to ketpup your Name. And for you, Sam. Greaves, fail not, a-s j»u fba.ll answer the contrary at your peril, to drary year right found Beer for my Daddy Cow-per; Cowper! the best of Customertj the Life and Soul of ail Company; the Wonder of atl that fee thee, and the Pride and Glory of Old Age ! Thou reviielt the drooping Spirits of the A/fuled thy Mirth banishes Sorrow; Melan-tholly takes Wing at thy approach; and thy very Countenance makes us Chearful. O tliou Miracle of Men never to be forgotten

IV. OJ the INHABITANTS.

The Multitude of the bshab tints is so great,'tis impossible to Treat distinctly of every particular Person; ior Jo many Men,so many Minds: And if such variety of H umours in this Sex, what mull: there be among the Females, who makeup Four Parts in Nine, at least ? For the generality of km, they are willing to entertain all that will come to them; very Courteous and'Objf* > ging as long as your Money lad; respect you whiltfta* Stranger, (that it, for the frit time they feeyoii) for-^fter-wards 'tis Hail Fellow, well met; and they are as well>' Skill'd in the Art of Flattery, as if they had been bred ip Courtiers: None can play the Hypocrite better ban they; for, What is it they will not do to gain any

thing

( 14 )

by you ? They'll Bawd for you, be either Pimp or Pounder; Wheedlejio«, Back-bite your Neighbour,an^ Fawn ypon^o* like your Soviet; Speak all the good things imaginable before your Face, and for a Mug oj Afe^ traduce you behind your Back. In fhQFt, they art thorough-pac'd in every Degree, and so well vers'd in any Point of VeUny, that nothing comes amifsto them. Thu is their Character in Epitome; their Effigies ini Miniature. But the Reader must understand, that all the Ink alium s do not Answer this Description, I meap only those who are the Scum and Dregs of the rest, who notwithstanding bear equal Sway with them^ai beir.g the major-part; and they are very distinguishable, therefore the ,easier to be avoided. A Man may meet with some good Company among the 5 Sorts be-fore-raention'd, who arc affable, good-natur'd, well? bred, but you must not he taken up to much with them, as not tofuffer the meaner Sort, or more illiterate, to Speak to you, as you tender your Peace and Quiet-nets during your Abode among them.

V. Of their Waji and, Customs.

When any Man becomes a Sheltered he either takes a Houfiy or Lodging; and truly the former is mast eat fily obtain'd, and much more commodious and satisfa-Gory than the latter; tho' 'tis at present a very diffi* cult matter to get either, the Afi»f is so crowded; however, I shall defer ibe the nature of them both.

To begin with the First, If your Landlord Lets you aHouse, you must not be furpriz'd if he asks (nay, hq will have,) twice as much as if you were in another place; you must not complain of being at a Rack-Rent^ if you have a mind to continue; 'twill avail nothing for there's no Remedy. Besides, you must not expeq to enter without paying a Finet more or less, and some

( 15 )

times a Qu&ter's-Rent before-hand, so exorbitant are they in their Demands* Moreover, you (hill be oblig'd to repair the Rouse in due deafen; and tho* you lay out never so much upon it, mike What Improvements you think fit; nay, tho1 you render it three times as Convenient as when you came into it, yet you have but your Labour and Expencesfor your Pains; not one Penny will be allow'd for what you have done, no not so much as Thanks for in But what you will judge most Severe is, that you shall have it but from one QuartePs-cnd to another; and if you fail to Pay the Rent the Day on which it becomes Due, eXpett your Goods to be Seiz'd upon the next; nay, after all, fliou'd another bid more than you, tho'70a are in Possession, you mud Pay what the other raises you to, or turn out. Now, if they that take Houses bear so great a Burden, then judge how hard it mnft light upon those who are Lodgers these are the gFeateil Sufferers; they muff make up the Lojfts of the former; and I can AiTufe the Reader, that ChaMbet^Rent is much Cheaper about ith t Court, ( comparatively) or, the middle of the Oty, than it is id this place. Neither can you get a Lodging here for less time thin a Fortnight, and frequently you must take it Monthly; but Bargain for what Time you will^you must expect to Pay before-hand, and have, but few or no Gonveniehcies allow'd you. It (ignifies but little whether you have a Name or no, for they take Care you shall not run in their Debt; and lhou'd you ask 'em to Trust you, they'll Cry, TV/, or far as we can throtv you: Ton are here toDay Md gone to Morrow. A'0, no, bring rend) Money, or leave d Pledge and welcotne; but without either of them, tie do not dtjite jour Company. This is the Treatment they (how you in your Necessity; and tho* you have spent never 10 much Money, 'tis all one,700 are Despis'd, and no Notice taken of you. There are some who when they

know

( 16 )

you have Many will often triift you, (OldNick give them tlianks for their Kindnels)in Expectation of youi Custom; and if you accept this offer, they will always esteem you under an obligation to them, and you shall hearof it upon occasion: And you may esteem it a Miracle to be Thirty Shillings in their Debt. There lately happened aninstance of what I have said; viz.

A certain Lady who keeps House in the Mint, Ow'd a Butcher Twenty Shillings, and her Rents not coming in so punBuil.As expected, /he could not pay the greajy Rogue according to Promise , upon which he refus'd to give her any further Credit, by which means the Jack flood fiid for Ten Pays. Now, the Lady was drove to her last shift, in order to conceal this Misfortune front her Neighbours, anl\ keep up her Reputation among them, flje began to considerj! and at last thought tt more advtfttible to leave her fine Scad as a Hostagefor the Twenly Shillings, a Shoulder of Mut« ton, and a Bushel of Coals, till they, or an Equivalent, should he return'd. Thus poor Jack was employ'd fora Jinall time; and the Smoke demonstrated, that the House rvts not always without Eire; and the Lady thought herself very (ecure pom her Neighbours knowing what Hardships fin was reduc'd to: Rut, alas ! how joon are we deceiv'd in

our Expectations ! the Sciit'was not in the Butcher'* possession Half an Hour, hut he expos'd it to ai-lhe Comers and Goers, as a Raree-show. So the Story took Windy but the Lady regarded it not. I

I believe a Man may venture to conclude, without being censured for to Judge rashly, that these^peoplej will icarce get nearer Heaven than they areAprefend except what Advances they may make at Tiburn, Kjm stone, or some fuel. Place; for not to take cognizance at their Actions, 'tis visible they have as little Faith as ci*) ther Turk or jbw, and without that, 'tis impossible to tleach the Mansions above, 1

VI. Of their Nature And Temper.

Haviqg Fpoke very much in a few Words, concerning t\& inhabitants, the Reader may chink there can be but little more said that relates to them; I shall there* fore briefly Speak of their Nature and Temper.

They are a fort of Animals made up of all the ill (Qualities incident to Mankind; They are subject te> every iU Disposition of Mind, and adjli&ed to all manner of Vice. 1 Tis not safe to put any Confidence in them; fortho* they dare not be known to be Treacherous, yet* fora fmafl Reward, they will clandefiinely Betray you. They are Infotent, Saucy, and Impertinent, verifying the Old Proverb, Proud and Beggarly; they are highly Opinionated of themselves; very Vindictive, and care not what base Means they pursue, to obtain their Ends: Scolding and Brawling are their Two Favourites; and there is no People Under the Sun so Litidtous. They are idle, toofe, and JUthful, and naturally inclin'd to Filth and Nastiness: They will Fast one Day to get Drunk

the next, and let their Bach go uncover'd to make pels of their Throats. Money and they, are not very intimately acquainted; and when they are Mafiers of it$ think every Minute an Hour, till they get to an Ale-House to Spend it.

This is the True Description of that many-Headed Monster, the Mob of the Mint: Nor is their Tempet any ways disproportionable, but congruous, and tollable to their Nature. They are Dogged, Peevish, and Morose, and Surly to the lait Degree; if at any time they receive a Favour,chey fail not to Revile and Spurn at the Given Their Countenances are Sour, and you may perceive their Conditions in their Faces; they never Forget, or Forgive an Injury, but will watch an Oppor~ iuhtty to return it 5 for Revenge is their dear Darling;

C Friend-

( 18 )

FrievJffjip they profess, but will not practice; and it goes against their Grain to own an Obligation. As for the Women, they are Proud, Talkative, (a Quality inherent to the Sex)Sell-conceited and Lafciviops, pron to all manner of Lew chiefs; and they have the mof convenient Opportunity to accpmpltfh their Design} that can be. 1‘or, fmcc their Husbands cannot go a< broad,t/icy Sollicit and manage their Bufinefs for them; and under the Notion of Compounding their Debts x ere* ate new Ones where they can get Credit: They It)

open their Hvsbands i'.afe to their Lawyer; and ff thejf lye out a Night or two f no matter with wliomjha Faulj mull he lound with them, for the Husband, good ivlan, knows that Money cannot be had so readily at the firli: time of asking: Besides what Pettifogger oi yhtermy, will do his work without a Fee ? What hopeful progeny rr.uab such wicked-Parents produce! Nay to give them their due, they take as little care a* bout the Education of their Children, as any People whatever. They are very alhduousin planting a mortal Avcrlion to Bmn-B.iilijjs in the Minds of their ifoung Ones; for, as other People terrify their Children with the tremendous Names of Bugaboo, and Kaw-Head and Bloody Hours, lo they use theirs with the hideous Word BsUlJFF; and they have such natural Antipathy tc tilde curfcd Infects, that when they have them within their bower, they make them Sensible of their Abhorrence to them, by the double Punishment they inflifl upon them, as flail be Ihown in the following Head.

( 19 )

VII. Of their Clubs and Meetings, and the manner of Punishing a BAILIFF.

There are Three principal Ways, by which you come into the Mint; and at or near every one of these Entries,there is a Club, or Meeting of the Shelterers: One in Mint-street, a Second in White-Cross-street, and a Third near the Two Fighting Cocks. They assemble together at least Twice a Week; neither does one intrude upon, or meddle with what happens within the Precincts of another, but every Body takes Cognizance of what Offence is committed within the Limits of his own Ward. The principal Design of keeping thcle Clubs was, not only to Punish the Bailiffs, bur lor another good End, by which it will appear (as I promis'd before) that the Mint was always Superior and Preferable to the Frjars, or other places of Priviledge , For they refuse not to suffer a Warrant to be Serv'd within their Jurisdiction, provided it is not defigo'd to Trepan tome Person that is in there for Debt; neither will they Protett thafe who have a Comission of IS.ir.krapt out against them, but will suffer them, or their Effects, to be carried away by a Cop/^/^without Molestation. And farther, to manifest they have no Unifier Delign in keeping up thlir Priviledges, will appear by their allowing tny Vagabond who comes within the Description of the Mi, to be sent for a Soldier. Nor will they Harbour my Person who has run away from his Bail, but deliver him up to those who malic their Application rothe Hubs. Hence it is visible, that their main Intent is to Defend those from a Prison, who have not Sufficient o Pay their Creditors, who arc so very voracious, as to lave the Skin off their Bones, by endeavouring to cast cm into a worse place than their Graves. For fere all and Anxieties of Mind 2nd Body do cease ;

C 2 but

( ).

tut ip a God, they incrcaTc Daily, IbmelifllCS to the Ruin both of Soul and Body.

*Tisto be Observed, Tint in every Qlab there is a S:c7xr.itwho upon any Tryal fits a rfudge or Prrpdtnt, attended by Six Beadle t with their long Staves headed with Silver. Nor is any Perfor. taken upon Sttfpicion, whether Bailiff, Sttttr, or Fc-7 ~er, Condemn'd without Prr.of; so Just a re they in their Proceedings.

When they lay hold of a Person, the Club is instantly Fummon'd, and the Party Accus'd, dcflr'd to Strip f.om Head to Toc, and turn out the infidcof his Pockety producing his Papers, cv. If he refuse so to do, the BfiJUt perform it for him; and they arc very care, fu! that lie loses nothing, for whatever Money, or thing of Value js about him, is return'd to him. If after a riilgent, and narrow Scrutiny, they find no Warrants, tt'n't, or Alisons about him, here ( as in all Courts cf Judicature,) he is ash'd, IV.h, andn b.it he it, the Placeej hit Abode, See. As soon as he has Satisfied them here, in, they Depute fomc Trully Fellow, who goes neat the place where the Trifoner dirc&sthem; and being 3 crafty, cunning Rogue, brings the matter about, bj enquiring if fuclt a Pei Ion whr> is a Sheriffs Officer.doa not Live thereabout *, nndccaflsr.ottillhe is fully Satisfy'd, whether he be Baltf. Setter, or poffomr- if either of the Two latter, he is never favour'd in his Execution *, and the Reason they alledge is, That the Bahjf only dees his Duty, and has Authority for it; but the FrSeurtr and Setter h*vc not, therefore often meet with double Punishment.

But to return; The MclVcr.gcr having got what In*! teliigcr.ee he can, comes hick, and makes his Report1 accordingly; and if the Pc .-firm be no: as they suspect him, then lie is discharg'd; tho' there is Treachery often in t!f. - ay.the MciTcnger's being Brib'd re jaalc a fell- " r' .: but Woe unto him if he he

( 15 )

[cover'd: But if the Prisoner be found to be. a Bailiff, Setter, of Bailiff's follower, then is hefos'd as mention'd in the following Relation of one Alexander--a Copper-

smith.

This Alexander had brought over fool, of Goods with him into the Mint, and so joyned among the shelter ers lor a Twelve-Month; during which time, he came acquainted with every Body in the Place, and at la It Compounded his Debts, and got out. Now, what does this Ungrateful, this Treacherous Mungrel do, but turns Hum-Batliffj ( tho' it proved an ill Turn for him,) and not only takes Efaape-War rants and Writs, again!! the Benchers and Shelterers, but skulks up and down about the Edges of the Mint, watching like a salt are for his Prey, and lying perdue to Snap up the first that should Bolt out .* But it chanc'd, he was taken, and as a just Reward for his Ingratitude, punish'd in the following manner.

Being brought before the Present oj the Club, he was search'd, and jeven Warrants WActions found about him, which were to apprehend Persons in the Mint; he was Condemned, Sentemid, and deliver'd into the Hands of the Executioners, or Spirits, which are the Readies, Jo called from the frightful Habits they put on to disguise them; they've a Rug or Blanket made in Shape of a Morning-Gown, or rather like a Seaman's Watch-Coat, which reaches down to their Toes, and their Faces and Heads are covered over with a Piece of the fame, with Holes cut in it for their Eyes, Mouth, and Nose, by which it resembles a Mask or Pifard,

But thus habited, the Prisoner was committed to themt accompanied with Four or Five 'Ihoufaxd People at leaf, which rose in a Minute; the Spirits earned him to every Pump in the Mint, at each of which he w,ts very well wash'd, ithe Apprentices and Boys mads ad :ady to receive him, and had the Pumps filed with Water ag unf he cam: Two

( »,) '

if the Spirits Went before, to clear the Way, Two behind to keep off the Mob, and the other two ftcured and kelc^h'm under every Pump. But, this was but a Prologue ,01 a Beginning of his Sufferings. This fart of the Ceremony being over, he was couducled to the Ditch-fide, ant tent Li-

mits of the Mint, and there, Nolens-Volens, whether he rvou'd or no, was duck'd over Head and Ears, thrice in that filthy Place; nor did they suffer him to pull off hit Cloaths. This done, they c aitfed him to cleanse his Face, and adminiflred the following Oath which they obliged him to take.

I Alexander ----- ----- do confess my self a Rogue by my pro,

jefjion, and dofolemuly Swear bef ore G — D that J have greatly injured her Majesty'sgood and Liege People,ani that from the Bottom of ny Heart, him sorry for the fame. Moreover I doproteff, that I never will Arrell, or cause to be Arrested, any Person wh? is in, or belongs to the Mint, either dtreffly or indirectly; but will give Notice of an) Warrant, Writ or Action, that I know is againj} Bench

er, Sbclccrcr, or Miotcr. So help me 0- — D.

Having To fa id, lie kifTed the Book which was a Brick bat, daubed over with a Sir-reverence; this they rub arj bout his Face and sometimes in his Mouth. The Ce*| remony thus ended he was dismissed. But if at part-| ingtlie Prisoner forgets to pay the Spirits their Fees;! that is, if he bribes them not, then the Apprentices and Women cause him to undergo the punishment twice, but if he he liberal, lie is conducted out of the Bounds of the Mint, and so etcapcs a fccon.l Ditching.

( 23 )

VIII: Of the MINT in General

It mail be confess'd, that he who can walk to the utmost Extincts of the Mint, is still under Restraint, but as the Pleasure and Satisfaction of Liberty consists in Contentment of Mind, he that is endued therewith may live in the Mint as well as any where else: For what Enticement, what Variety have you in London, which may not be found in the Mint? What Pastimes, what Sports, Allurements and Diversions have you Citizens and Suburbians, which we have not here ? Tho' not in such plenty; in which we have this Advantage, that whereas you are clog'd and Surfeited with so much, we have but just enough, which renders it more acceptable, pleasing, & delightful. Does the Citt value himself for his Royal-Exchange; little thinking, that whilst he is Bartering the re, his Wife is Consummating what she bargain'd for before. So have we our Square, and usual Houses of meeting, and within Smell of our Habitations: And where many a Rich Merchant walks in the Year, without fear of a Searjeant's plucking him by the Coat. They go to Mary-bone and Islington to Bowls, we to Cuperts and Moor-shanks; they boast their Sun-Tavern behind the Exchange, we have our Freind Isaac behind our Square, who has Wine and Brandy of the best. Have they e'er a rich Banker that cheated his Creditors? Why we can match him with a S----ome Body? You boast your Lombard Street; so do we; but with this Difference JUSTICE is not ashamed to show her Face in Hours by Night or Day. You have a very famous put-together-House in the City; we have a Noted Baudy House as you enter into St. George's Fields; & as you have Drury-Lame, Wild-street, and other Places for the Ladies of Pleasure, we but cross over the Ditch, and at a Whiffle, can have 20 or 30 Brace of Marlins in an Instant: In short, we can equal you in every respect, in every way, whether lawful or unlawful, which tends to human Life. Bridges-street and Charing Cross, are usual Rendevouz where you go to throw a merry Main, and try whether the Money you have be yours or another Body's; there you meet with your Sharpers to . Butter a Cul; Nor are we behind hand with you in this point; for at the Sign of the Angel, we can play all Day and Night too; and honest Jack can top or palm with any Man; he has your high and low, flat and smooth: But I care not to Drink after

( 24 )

my Landlord, lest I should get more than I desire, and challenge me with finding his Palate. While you go to the Mulbery, or Spring-Garden, we recreate our selves at the Sign of the Chimney-Sweeper, or at the Red-Cow; but if your Philosophy has taught you to be frugal, and not drink brewed Wine but content your selves with a Mug of Nappy-Ale, why, the George in East-Cheap, the Horseshoe in blow-bladder-street,

r~ of aVi;y-Altt why, tl. C tcrjrt in F ‘fi-C'-rsT, the Hcrftpj: ir. l':~-llj.UtT~p.rtn, the Fa-f'n-1 b7 <T.n{-.\Uil/:t or, Hie / - ar. J Zf-rtf, ia Rtu'-l.ycn-Jittr ct2.v>! dnwbcttcrUecr thui S‘-~. <7ttwt at the 5<f'i and Gear or my friend Ccimt the Rtl-F.'fe. While you arc bt-gaining at (Txirux^'twccau talk at />«'s, a:d fee c/cry b; dy that paffts by: If at any Ti.: c we get a R*n, r j 6V % r , wchavcno utccllity t-# :;o near Lu.'gatt^ or t' Minnti; we have as eminent a of among us as nny yt' can producey who pretends ta as much knowledge in tho! afTain, and yet bat at little skill is ,our old Freifld the Do: for, wha give-; you an stli-wi( now and then with a fiui eracd Thr.mb before it iuftcadof3 -V. J>. to make it tlicjco^ remarkable. Yet, Faith Debtor V — :-->i will cure the me.' inveterate, mofl confirm'd Pox with rat Fluxiag,by the hclpt S Dafet of Phyltck, without a Grain of Mrrc/.rjbet a sufficici I Quantity of Cr.'r»r*/. And heren we cxccll you again, for n: to tr.cntisnfm Vigour inliisyoutl :al Days ffor he killed thru

in i4 Hours for ;o Years Succellisdy, if you believe what b f«ys) he could formerly havctold you-any forrrign News Week before it came over -in the Packets, for he retained cct tain Familiars whom he fed with Wine and Mackroons, butth? Cyct proving toncxpenhvc, ar.d there being an Mi of Pjb

ur.asnfi publick Wagerhe thought it not worth h. while to keep them any longer,so tiifmifs'd them: Nmv ca any of your S.,-'-67u.mJ can your famous Ms.-r-fitUi Aftrolo r.cr tell, who pretending to give other people intelligenceli. tic thinks who is attbeftme time in his own Wife's Cinl,

To conclude we have as many Trades and Callings, as many People for the bigness of the Place, as you have on the other Side of the Water; and you exceed us in nothing but your Number of Chairs and Coaches.

Si quid novisti rectius estis Candidne imperti.

