A

True Description

OF THE

MINT

Giving an Account of its first becoming a Place of Refuge for Debtors; the Extents of its Antient and Modern Limits, the Manners, Ways, and Customs of the Inhabitants: with their Character, Nature and Temper.

AS ALSO

Their LAWS and METHOD of Punishing a BAILIFF and his Follower, or Setter, with the OATH they cause him to take: And several other things, relating to the MINT in General.

Quid non, mortalia pectora cogis Auri sacra fames. Virg.

LONDON Printed, and Sold by A. Baldwin in Warwick Lane, and T. Harrison, at the West-end of the Royal Exchange, Cornhill 1710.

TO THE

Gentry of the MINT, 

Howsoever Distinguish'd, whether

BENCHERS or SHELTERERS.

Gentlemen, 

I Do not doubt but I shall have many a bitter Curse for my Definition of the Mint, but 'tis below me to take notice of those Curs, who can only Grin and not Bite. I follow the Golden Rule of rendering to every Man what is his Due. I Appeal to You, who are the properest Judges, for the Truth of the following Relation: And if I am a little Severe on the Mob, (those Shrubs, that Live under you tall Cedars) I hope I make Amends in wiping off the Odium which is so universally cast upon the people of the Mint. By declaring everything at large (tho in few Words) I am Confident I have brought over a great many to Favour you, who being Prejudiced before (esteeming this Place much worse than the fryars, in obstructing

the Execution of Justice) are sensible of their Error, in setting every thing in a clear Light.

The antient Romans Conquer'd much, and lost it again; but You, like a careful, provident, industrious Heir, keep entire not only what was left you, but have increas'd your Patrimony, remembring the Words of the Poet, 

Non minor est virtus quam quaerere parta tueri.

May your Power, your Priviledges, and your Liberties never be diminished, but increased rather than lessen'd: For, as a late Judge said, they that are Confin'd there (meaning the Mint) suffer Misery enough: So may the Higher Power say to you, as Venus did to AEneas, 

Perge modo et qua te ducit via dirige gressus.

This is the sincere Desire, and shall be back'd, upon Occasion, by the small Interest of, 

Gentlemen, Your Humble Servant;

A True Description of the

Mint and Minters.

THERE are few People, I believe, so very Ignorant, but know that a Mint is a place appointed for Coining, or making the Lawful Money of the Realm; and 'tis from hence, that the Subject of the following Treatise does originally derive its Name. I shall not trouble my Reader with its Chronology, let it be sufficient to assure him, that it is of greater Antiquity than the Fryars, or any other Place that usurp'd a Priviledge; and we may reasonably conclude, that it is preferable and superior to them, not only from its retaining its Customs, when those others are abolish'd and destroy'd, but for many other Reasons, which shall be made appear in their proper place.

O Mint! Thou kind and hospitable Hostess, who readily dost stretch forth thy Arms to embrace those that will fly unto thee, who refuseth not to Shelter all that will come under thy Wing! May you always be thus favourable. Thou, who art the Defender of the Fatherless, Supporter of the Widow, and Succourer of the poor insolvent Debtor; who being Protected by thee, can safely take his Rest, secure from the devouring Jaws of the insatiable Creditor: May your good Intentions prosper, your Power be continued, and may you ever remain without Corruption or Dissention.

Tho' some People repine at this place of Refuge, 

( 6 )

and endeavour all they can to Destroy those that are in it; yet after all, 'tis but a kind of Purgatory, or Middle-state, a Medium between close Confinement, and absolute Liberty. And if our Freedom be an estimable Jewel, a Purchase we would not part with, it must certainly be a great Mortification to any Man, that is depriv'd of it six Days in seven, who being penn'd up in such narrow Compass, dares not stir beyond its Precincts, without running the greatest Risque imaginable.

Had they to whom we are Indebted, any Compassion, were they endu'd with the least Grain of Charity, they could not but think this Place a sufficient Punishment for those they Compel to remain here: But such is the Malice, such the Avarice of some Men, that tho' they are sensible that the Person they Arrest has not wherewith to Pay them, nay, can scarce get Bread to eat, yet will they call him Head-long into a Goal; and thereby not only render him utterly incapable of ever giving them what is their Due, but the poor Prisoner must Perish in a short time, and leave his Bones to Satisfy their greedy Minds.

I am Confident, there is no Debtor would willingly abide here, could he Live safely in another Place; for the anxious Thoughts of being in continual Jeopardy if he stirs abroad, and his being Confin'd to the various Humours of the confused Multitude, the medly of people that is in the Mint, is enough to Distract him For 'tis here, as in Charon's Boat, you must throw off your Pride, be prepar'd for long-Suffering, and cloath yourself with Humility and Patience (of which you had need have a large Stock) and retain nothing but Money to Defray the Charges of your Residence; for no longer Pipe, no longer Dance.

I cannot Treat so Distinctly (as I do design) of the Liberties, Privilidges, Laws, and Customs of this Place;

( 7 )

nor the Manners, (which are very few) Nature, and Temper of the People, without making a Distinction of the Inhabitants, or Body Politick; which is a Compound of Three, or to speak more intelligibly, is divided into Three Ranks, or Classes, the Benchers, Shelterers, and the Minters.

And as there is a small Dispute, who it was that first brought up, and who it is that does at present maintain and uphold the Priviledges of the Mint; I shall endeavour to end the Difference, and set these matters in a clear Light: In order to which, I must begin with the first Branch of my Division, namely, the Benchers.

I. Of the BENCHERS.

These are a mixture of all Degrees of Mankind, who are either Arrested, and so Confin'd by a Queen's-Bench-Writ, or else they remove themselves hither from Other Prisons (the Fleet excepted) by Virtue of an Habeas Corpus. The Rules or Liberties of the Queen's-Bench were in former Days very small; they reach'd out from a little below the Prison to St. George's Church, including one side of it; but in process of time, the Mint was annex'd thereto, which extended as far as the present Sign of the Two Fighting Cocks Westward, and was border‘d on the South with the Ditch which divides it from St. George's Fields; and at the North-side it had a Gate at the hither-end of White-Cross-street. These were the Antient Boundaries of the Mint.

Now, to undeceive the Reader, who may think perhaps, that every Prisoner has the Liberty of the Rules of the Bench, I must acquaint him, that this Favour is granted only to such as can Purchase it, and give

( 8 )

Security for their not running away; tho' rather than fail, their own Bond, with a handsome Gratuity, will serve; the Nature of performing it is thus. You either get some Friend who is acquainted with the Marshal, or else you go to him yourself, and make your Conditions upon as easy Terms as you can; but you must consider, that nothing is to be done rashly, therefore a Bottle or two is a good Preparative. Neither must you Repine if you do not accomplish your Design the first time; for as he cannot tell how many Actions you have charg'd against you, and how Weighty they may be, what Character you bear, and whether your Security be substantial, so a Second or Third Meeting, you know, is very proper, for the refreshing and supporting Nature. But supposing you do bring things to bear, and obtain your Desire, yet there's Half Crown a Week for Chamber-Rent, tho' you never go near it, which must be punctually paid upon Demand, or you suffer for it severely.

Tho' some People may think 'tis very easy for those Who have the Priviledge of the Rules, to make their Escape, which is not impossible, yet is there much more Difficulty in it than at first imagin'd. For the Marshal has at least Threescore Spies, some of whom are Gentlemen, and are glad to curry Favour upon any account. These Emissaries are dispers'd into most Companies, they insinuate themselves into your Acquaintance, make private Enquiry what Hours you keep, how, or after what rate you Live, whether you have plenty of Money, and such like; and then, according to their information, they make their Report to the Marshal, so that you cannot turn any way but you have an Eye over you. But should a Prisoner escape, it would not break the Marshal's Heart, for he seldom continues longer than Three Years successively, and then exchanges

( 9 )

with the Warden of the Fleet, and are generally each others Prisoner.

I hope the Reader will pardon the Digression I am going to make, since it may be partly beneficial, not only to the Benchers, but to those whose Misfortune it may prove to be Prisoners: And first as concerning the latter; I would advise every Person that designs to turn himself over to the Queen's-Bench, to get a Friend to treat with Marshal, before he has brought his Habeas Corpus, by which means he will save considerably; for if he proffers any thing reasonably, the Marshal will be glad to accept of it, esteeming it a piece of Prudence, to play at Games rather than stand out. For, thinks he, shou'd I refuse this Offer, he will apply himself to the Warden of the Fleet, who will be glad to receive it. But if you remove your self without Compounding, then you lye wholly at his Discretion; who, if you be Fat, will have as much Mercy on you, as a Hawk has of his Prey; and before you get from under his Roof, you must expect to share the same Fate with a Sheep that comes from under a Hedge, lose a Fleece or two, and be glad you come off so well.

A Second Advice to the Benchers in general is this, Let no Man know your Concerns; make no Body acquainted with your Circumstances, neither be familiar with too many; and if you have occasion to go to to London, or elsewhere, either do it privately and singly, or go in Company with but one or two and let 'em be Persons whom you know have gone out pretty often. For if the Marshal finds you out, he immediately Calls you in, pretending you might be taken upon an Escape-Warrant, and when you are a Second Time in close Confinement, you must expect to Pay a much rounder Sum to get out, than you did for your first Enlargement.

( 10 )

II. Of the SHELTERERS, and the present Limits of the MINT.

Having Treated of the Benchers as succinctly as possible, the Shelterers follow next: And here is a Composition enough to poison the Devil; Here is Tag-rag and Bob-tail all sorts of Trades, Professions, and Religions, from the Circumcised Jew, down to the Pharisaical Christian, who, in the main, is as great a Reprobate, as any Infidel, Jew, or Heathen! Not but there are some good, honest Men, though their number is small. It may be enquir'd, how these People got footing in this place: Why truly, I design to reveal that Mystery; therefore to answer the Question the Querist must know that the Number at first was very thin; that they took Shelter under the Bencher's Wings, these were their Protectors, and they had their Invitation from them. If we give Credit to the Report of some malicious People, we shall find that this Kindness of theirs, was rather a Principle of Self-Satisfaction, than an Act of Charity to Relieve those they took under their Umbrage, as is concluded from hence. Revenge is what we are very prone too, and so depraved is Man's Nature, that instead of forgiving an Injury, he endeavours all he can to return it. Now the Bailiffs, those Caterpillars of the Nation, being the Occasion of the Benchers losing their Liberty, they invited some of their Neighbours who were about to forsake their Habitations, for fear of an Arrest, to come and Live among them; these they suppos'd would prove a Bait, a Train to get the aforemention'd Vermin within their Clutches; and then fearless of any Punishment, they cou'd inflict what Punishment on 'em they thought fit.

There were but few Houses in the Mint in those Day s, so that when any of these Riots happen'd, either

( 11 )

the Constables came in to seek the Offenders, or else the Sheriff rais'd the Posse and so the Shelterers were forc'd to fly till the Hurly-burly was over. The Number of those that had fled hither, increasing Daily, the Owners of the Ground thought they could not lay out their Money to better Advantage, than in Building, and truly their Gains were so considerable, that they set their Houses at any Rent, so greedy were the People of coming into them. It must be confess'd, the Benchers were the first that brought up the Priviledges of the Mint, but 'tis as certain, that the Shelterers do at present maintain them, and have very much enlarg'd their Liberties; they have taken Whit-Cross-street on the North-side, and bear such absolute Sway over St. Georges-Fields, nay even to Cupid's Gardens, that they will not suffer any Person to be Arrested within those Lights; Nay, should a Bailiff come within Smell of those places, if they lay hold on him, he is as severely Handled, as if he had come in the middle of the Mint. Now to give every one his Due, let us speak sincerely our Opinion, and then see if the Shelterers have not repaid the Benchers their Civility; for any one of them can traverse the places limited, walk to Moor-Shanks, and Drink, or play at Bowls as securely, as accompanied with an Hundred, not being in the least Danger of being taken by an Escape-Warrant: Whereas formerly they dare not go over the Ditch on the South-side, that being their Stint, and they now enjoy unmolested the Benefit of the green Fields, and walk uncontroll'd. Let any impartial Man judge, which of these two sorts of Men are most beholden to each other; truly, in my Opinion the Shelterers have not only paid their Obligation to the Benchers with Interest upon Interest, but upon a Ballance of the whole, I think they brought the Benchers indebted to them. Sure that Man that had but an Hundred Pound given him, is more to be Commended,

( 12 )

if by his Industry, he increases it to a Thousand, than he, who by his Toil has made himself Master of Twenty Pounds, and will not strive to augment it, but idly Lavish it away.

Notwithstanding the Shelterers have been very great Sufferers, have been Fin'd and Imprison'd for preferring and defending their Rights; yet some of the Benchers have prov'd so Ingrateful, that they have not only refus'd to Contribute toward the Support and Relief of these poor Wretches, but have prevented others from sending their Charity, upbraiding and exclaiming against these miserable Creatures, tho' they are serviceable at the same time, that were it not for them, they would be Stifled, and not have a Mouthful of fresh Air. Nay, so Jealous are these poor Souls of having their Privileges infring'd, that they often Expel some of their own Fraternity upon Suspicion, and if any Proof can be brought against them, they show 'em no Compassion, thinking no Treatment too Vile for their Treachery. And as there are Three principal Avenues or Entries to the Mint, so have they Three Clubs, or Meetings, to Try and Decide whatever shall happen in their Division. But, of them hereafter.

III. Of the MINTERS.

The Minters are those who have been Prisoners formerly, and reside there still; or else they are House-keepers, who dwell there, and go abroad at their Pleasure. Of the latter, Sammy Greaves, a good-humour'd hearty Cock, who fears not to show his Face before a Lord Mayor, God bless him: but he has a Wife, and she is a ____, so I'll say no more of her. Neither must I pass by that facetious, jolly old Fellow, Daddy Cowper, for not to mention him, would be to do his Virtues Wrong. He is upwards of Seventy Years of Age, and

( 13 )

of a strong, hail Constitution; to preserve which, he sticks to the old Rule of going to Bed with the Lark, and rising again with the same. He is a Glover and Leather-Breeches-maker by Trade; he can earn Ten Shillings every Morning, before Ten other Persons are out of their Beds; his Voice is as strong as one of Five, and I must own, his judgment is not Despicable. Dear Daddy, May your Health continue in its pristine state; may you Live long and happy; and before you make your Exit, may you leave a Race behind you, endew'd with your own Qualities to keep up your Name. And for you, Sam. Greaves, fail not, as you shall answer the contrary at your peril,

to draw your right sound Beer for my Daddy Cowper; Cowper! the best of Customers; the Life and Soul of all Company; the Wonder of all that see thee, and the Pride and Glory of Old Age! Thou revivest the drooping Spirits of the Afflicted; thy Mirth banishes Sorrow; Melancholly takes Wing at thy approach; and thy very Countenance makes us Chearful. O thou Miracle of Men never to be forgotten!

IV. Of the INHABITANTS.

The Multitude of the Inhabitants is so great, 'tis impossible to Treat distinctly of every particular Person; for, so many Men, so many Minds: And if such variety of Humours in this Sex, what must there be among the Females, who make up Four Parts in Nine, at least? For the generality of 'em, they are willing to entertain all that will come to them; very Courteous and Obliging as long as your Money last; respect you while a Stranger, (that is, for the first time they see you) for afterwards 'tis Hail Fellow, well met; and they are as well Skill'd in the Art of Flattery, as if they had been bred up Courtiers: None can play the Hypocrite better than they; for, What is it they will not do to gain any thing

( 14 )

by you? They'll Bawd for you, be either Pimp or Paunder; Wheedle you, Back-bite your Neighbour, and Fawn upon you like your Spaniel; Speak all the good things imaginable before your Face, and for a Mug of Ale, traduce you behind your Back.

 In short, they art thorough-pac'd in every Degree, and so well vers'd in any Point of Villany, that nothing comes amiss to them. This is their Character in Epitome; their Effigies in Miniature. But the Reader must understand, that all the Inhabitants do not Answer this Description, I mean only those who are the Scum and Dregs of the rest, who notwithstanding bear equal Sway with them, as being the major-part; and they are very distinguishable, therefore the easier to be avoided. A Man may meet with some good Company among the 3 Sorts before-mention'd, who are affable, good-natur'd, well-bred, but you must not be taken up so much with them, as not to suffer the meaner Sort, or more illiterate, to Speak to you, as you tender your Peace and Quietness during your Abode among them.

V. Of their Ways and, Customs.

When any Man becomes a Shelterer he either takes a House, or Lodging; and truly the former is most easily obtain'd, and much more commodious and satisfactory than the latter; tho' 'tis at present a very difficult matter to get either, the Mint is so crowded; however, I shall describe the nature of them both.

To begin with the First, If your Landlord Lets you a House, you must not be surpriz'd if he asks (nay, he will have) twice as much as if you were in another place; you must not complain of being at a Rack-Rent, if you have a mind to continue; 'twill avail nothing for there's no Remedy. Besides, you must not expect to enter without paying a Fine, more or less, and sometime

( 15 )

a Quarter's-Rent before-hand, so exorbitant are they in their Demands. Moreover, you shall be oblig'd to repair the House in due Season; and tho' you lay out never so much upon it, mike What Improvements you think fit; nay, also you render it three times as Convenient as when you came into it, yet you have but your Labour and Expences for your Pains; not one Penny will be allow'd for what you have done, no not so much as Thanks for it. But what you will judge most Severe is, that you shall have it but from one Quarter's-end to another; and if you fail to Pay the Rent the Day on which it becomes Due, expect your Goods to be Seiz'd upon the next; nay, after all, shou'd another bid more than you, tho' you are in Possession, you must Pay what the other raises you to, or turn out. Now, if they that take Houses bear so great a Burden, then judge how hard it must light upon those who are Lodgers; these are the greatest Sufferers; they must make up the Losses of the former; and I can Assure the Reader, that Chamber-Rent is much Cheaper about the Court, (comparatively) or, the middle of the City, than it is in this place. Neither can you get a Lodging here for less time than a Fortnight, and frequently you must take it Monthly; but Bargain for what Time you will you must expect to Pay before-hand, and have, but few or no Conveniencies allow'd you. It signifies but little whether you have a Name or no, for they take Care you shall not run in their Debt; and shou'd you ask 'em to Trust you, they'll Cry, Yes, as far as we can throw you: You are here to Day and gone to Morrow. No, no, bring ready Money, or leave a Pledge and welcome; but without either of them, we do not desire your Company. This is the Treatment they show you in your Necessity; and tho' you have spent never so much Money, 'tis all one, you are Despis'd, and no Notice taken of you. There are some who when they know

( 16 )

---

you have Mony will often trust you, (Old Nick give them thanks for their Kindness) in Expectation of your Custom; and if you accept this offer, they will always esteem you under an obligation to them, and you shall hear of it upon occasion: And you may esteem it a Miracle to be Thirty Shillings in their Debt. There lately happened an Instance of what I have, said; viz.

A certain Lady who keeps House in the Mint, Ow'd a Butcher Twenty Shillings, and her Rents

so punctual as expected, jhe could not ptcy.the greasy Reg tie

according to' Ptomife; upon which he rgfks^d to give her any further Credit, by which', means the Jack Ten Days. r Now, the 'Tody rods, drove \o htr Usi ftrftty in prder to conceal this Misfortune from her Neighbours, and keep up her Reputation among , to

and at tail thought it more adviseato leave her fine Scarf

as a Hostage for the Twenty Shillings4'ShouIder of Mutton, and aBufhel of Coals, till th Equivalent, 

should be returtdd. Thus poor Jack: was employ'd for a fjnall time; an d the Smoke demo, that the Hou fe wo

not always without Fire; and't h Lady thought herself very secure from her Neighbours knowing, what Her dfhipsfbt

was reduc'd to: But, alas! deceiv'd in

our Expectations ! the Scarf was not in the Butcher'/ pop

session Half an Hour, but'he expos'd it to all the Comers

and Goers, as a Raree-Qaow. So the Story took Wind, but the Laiy regarded it not;

: I believe a Man may venture to conclude, without being censured for to Judge rafbly, that these jpeople will scarce get nearer Heaven tha they are present, except what Advances they may-make at 7iburn, King-ft one, or some such Place; for not to take cognizance of their Actions, 'tisvifible they have as little Faith as eit ther Turk or jew, and without that, 'tis impossible to ueach the Mansions above.

( 17 )

VI. Of their Nature add

Having spoke very much in a few Words, concerning the Inhabitants, the Reader may think there can be but little more said that relates to them; I shall therefore briefly Speak of their Nature and Temper.

They are a fott oF Jamals made up of all the ill Qualities incident to Mankind; They are (Ubjeft to every iK Difpafttion of Mind, and addicted to all manner

Of Vice. 'Tis not safe to put any Confidence in them } ifor tho* they dare not be known to be uif yet*

fora small Reward, they will blandeflinely Betray you. They are Infolept, Saucy, and Impertinent, verifying the Old Proverb, Ptbud and Beggxtty; they afe highly Opt* tiionated of themselves; very F-indiffive, and care not What base Means they pursue, to obtain their Ends: Scolding and Brawling are their Two Favourites; and there is no People under the Sun so They

are idle, loose, and f.ethful, and naturally inclin'd to Filth and Nttfliness: They will Faff one Day to get Dr uric

the next, and let their Backs go uncover'd to make Van* mis' of their Throats.Mon*} and are not very intimately acquainted; and when they are Mxfiers of it$ think every Minute an Hour, till they get to an Ale-Hot/fe so Spend it.

This is the True Description of that many-Headed-Monster, the Mob of the Mint: Nor is their Temper any ways disproportionable, but congruous, and fukable to their Nature. They are , and Mo-

tofe, and Surly to the last Degree; if at any time they receive a Favour jthey fail not to Revile and Spurn at the

Giver. Their Countenances are Sour, and yOu may

5erceive their Conditions in their Faces; they never Jorg*ty or Forgive an Injury, but will w atcli an Opportunity to return it; for Revenge is their deftfxS^rlingi

---

( 18 )

Friendship they profess, but will not practice; and it goes against their Grain to own an Obligation, As for the Women, they are Proud, Talkative, (a Quality inherent to the Sex) Self-conceited and Lascivious, prone to all manner of Lewdness; and they have the most convenient Opportunity to accomplish their Designs that can be. For, since their Husbands cannot go abroad, they Sollicit and manage their Business for them; and under the Notion of Compounding their Debts, create new Ones where they can get Credit: They open their Husbands Case to their Lawyer; and if they lye out a Night or two (no matter with whom) no Fault must be found with them, for the Husband, good Man, knows that Money cannot be had so readily at the first time of asking; Besides what Pettifogger or Attorney, will do his work without a Fee? What a hopeful progeny mu[st] such wicked Parents produce? Nay to give them their due, they take as little care about the Education of their Children, as any People whatever. They are very assiduous in planting a mortal Aversion to Bum-Bailiffs in the Minds of their Young Ones; for, as other People terrify their Children with the tremendous Names of Bugaboo, and Raw-Head and Bloody Bones, so they use theirs with the hideous Word BAILIFF; and they have such natural Antipathy to these cursed Insects, that when they have them within their Power, they make them Sensible of their Abhorrence to them, by the double Punishment they inflict upon them, as shall be shown in the following Head.

( 19 )

VII. Of their Clubs and Meetings, and the manner of Punishing a BAILIFF.

There are Three principal Ways, by which you come into the Mint; and at or near every one of these Entries, there is a Club, or Meeting of the Shelterers: One in Mint-street, a Second in White-Cross-street, and a Third near the Two Fighting Cocks. They assemble together at least Twice a Week; neither does one intrude upon, or meddle with what happens within the Precincts of another, but every Body takes Cognizance of what Offence is committed within the Limits of his own Ward.

---

The principal Design of keeping these Clubs was, not only to Punish the , but for another good End, by which it will appear ( as I promis'd before) that the Mint was always Superior and Preferable to the Friars, or other places of Priviledge; For they refuse not to suffer a Warrant to be Sefv'a within their Jurisdiction, provided it is not dcfign'd to Trepan some Person that is in there for Debt; neither will they Protect these who have a Comifjion of Bankrupt out against them, but will suffer them, or their Effects, to be carried away by a Confable, without Molestation. And

further, to manifest they have no sinister Design in keeping up their Priviledges, will appear by their allowing any Vagabond who comes within the Description of the Act, to be sent for a Solaier. Nor will they Harbour any Person who has run away from his but deliver him up to those who make their Application to the Clubs. Hence it is vifihle, that their main Intent is to Defend those from a Prison, who have not Sufficient; to Pay their Creditors, who are so very as to

have the Skin off their Bones, by endeavouring to call: 'em into a worse place than their Graves* Fo^Af^r all the Pains and Anxieties of Mind and Body do cease ;

( 20 )

but in a Goal, they increase Daily, sometimes to the Ruin both of Soul and Body.

'Tis to be Observed, That in every Club there is a Steward, who upon any Tryal sits as Judge or President, attended by Six Beadles with their long Staves headed with Silver. Nor is any person taken upon Suspicion, whether Bailiff, Setter, or Follower, Condemn'd without Proof; so Just are they in their Proceedings.

When they lay hold of a Person, the Club is instantly Summon'd, and the Party Accus'd, desir'd to Strip from Head to Toe, and turn out the inside of his Pockets, producing his Papers, &c. If he refuse so to do, the Beadles perform it for him; and they are very careful that he loses nothing, for whatever Money, or thing of Value is about him, is return'd to him; If after a diligent, and narrow Scrutiny, they find no Warrants, Writs, or Actions about him, here (as in all Courts of Judicature) he is ask'd, Who, and what he is, the Place of his Abode, &c. As soon as he has Satisfied them herein, they Depute some Trusty Fellow, who goes near the place where the Prisoner directs them; and being a crafty, cunning Rogue, brings the matter about, by enquiring if such a Person who is a Sheriffs Officer, does not Live thereabout; and ceases not till he is fully Satisfy'd, whether he be Baliff, Setter, or Follower; if either of the Two latter, he is never favour'd in his Execution; and the Reason they alledge is, That the Baliff only does his Duty, and has Authority for it; but the Follower and Setter have not, therefore often meet with double Punishment.

But to return; The Messenger having got what Intelligence he can, comes back, and makes his Report accordingly; and if the Person be not as they suspect him, then he is discharg'd; tho' there is treachery often in this way, by the Messenger's being Brib'd to make a false Report; but Woe unto him if he be

( 21 )

discover'd: But if the Prisoner be found to be a Bailiff, Setter, or Bailiff's Follower, then is he us'd as mention'd in the following Relation of one Alexander a Coppersmith.

This Alex4»d bed brought aver fool, of Goods

with him into th&Miut, and lo joyned among the wen for a Twelve-Mondn during which time, ha came acquainted with every Body in the Place, and at last Compounded his pebts^apd got our. Now, what does this Ungrateful, this Treacherous Mungrel do, but turns Bum-Bailiff, ( tho' it proved an ill Turn foe him) and not only takes Efaape-Warrants and Writs, against the Benchers and Shlterers, but skulks up and down about the Edges of the Mint, watching like a Fttkuxe fot his Prey, and lying perdue to Snap up the first that should Bolt out But it chanc'd he was taken, and as a just Reward for his Ingratitude, punish'd in the following manner.

Being brought before the President oj the was.

search'd, and jeven WarrantS^w^Actions found about him, which were to apprehend Persons in the Mint; he was Con-.

denwod. Sentenced, and deliver'd into the Hands of the Ex-(tuttoners, or Spirits, which are the Beadles, so called from the frightful Habits they put on disguise them j they've

Bug qr Blanket made in (hape of a Morning-Gown, or rather like a Seaman's Watch-Coat, which reaches down to their Toes, and their Faces and Heads are covered over with a Piece of the fame, with Holes cut in it for their Eyes, Mouth, and Nose? by which it a Mask or Fijard, 

But thus habited, the Prisoner w(ts committed to them, accompanied with Four or hive Thousand People at leaf, which refe in a Minute; the Spirits carried him to every Pump in the Mint, at each of which he was very well waffl'd, the Apprentices and Boys made ad ready to receive him, and had the Pumps filled, with W ateragainjl hekam fff:

( 22 )

Spirits went before, to clear the Way, Two behind to keep off the Mob, and the other two and held him under every Tump, , But, this w but a , or a Beginning of his Sufferings, This part of the Ceremony being over, he teas conduced to the Ditch-fide, ffo Limits of the Mint, and the Nolens-Volens, whether he would or no, was duck'd over Head and Ears thrice in that filthy Place nor did they suffer him to pull off his Cloaths. This done, they caused him to cleanse his Face, and administlred the following Oath which they obliged him ta take, 

I Alexander- — do confess my self a Rogue by my -

session, and io folemnly Swear before G — D that I have

greatly injured her Majesty's good and Liege People, and that jrom the Bottom of thy Heart, lam forty for the fame. Moreover I do protest, that I never will Arr to

be Arrested, any Perf on who is in, or belongs to the Mint, either directly or indirectly \ but will give Notice of any Warrant, Writ or ACfcion, that I know is against * Bencher, Shelterer, or Minter. So help me G — D.

Having so said, he killed the Book which was a Brickbat, daubed over with a Sir-rev this they rub about his Face and sometimes in his Mouth. The Ceremony thus ended he was dismissed. But if at parting the Prisoner forgets to pay the Spirits their Fees; that is, if he bribes them not, then the Apprentices and Women cause him to undergo the punishment twice, but if he be liberal, he is conduced out of the Bounds of the Mint, and so elcapes a {econd Ditching.

( 23 )

VIII: Of the MINT in General

It must be confess'd, that he who can walk to the utmost Extincts of the Mint, is still under Restraint, but as the Pleasure and Satisfaction of Liberty consists in Contentment of Mind, he that is endued therewith may live in the Mint as well as any where else: For what Enticement, what Variety have you in London, which may not be found in the Mint? What Pastimes, what Sports, Allurements and Diversions have you Citizens and Suburbians, which we have not here ? Tho' not in such plenty; in which we have this Advantage, that whereas you are clog'd and Surfeited with so much, we have but just enough, which renders it more acceptable, pleasing, & delightful. Does the Citt value himself for his Royal-Exchange; little thinking, that whilst he is Bartering there, his Wife is Consummating what she bargain'd for before. So have we our Square, and usual Houses of meeting, and within Smell of our Habitations: And where many a Rich Merchant walks in the Year, without fear of a Searjeant's plucking him by the Coat. They go to Mary-bone and Islington to Bowls, we to Cuperts and Moor-shanks; they boast their Sun-Tavern behind the Exchange, we have our Freind Isaac behind our Square, who has Wine and Brandy of the best. Have they e'er a rich Banker that cheated his Creditors? Why we can match him with a S----ome Body? You boast your Lombard Street; so do we; but with this Difference JUSTICE is not ashamed to show her Face in Hours by Night or Day. You have a very famous put-together-House in the City; we have a Noted Baudy House as you enter into St. George's Fields; & as you have Drury-Lane, Wild-street, and other Places for the Ladies of Pleasure, we but cross over the Ditch, and at a Whiffle, can have 20 or 30 Brace of Marlins in an Instant: In short, we can equal you in every respect, in every way, whether lawful or unlawful, which tends to human Life. Bridges-street and Charing Cross, are usual Rendevouz where you go to throw a merry Main, and try whether the Money you have be yours or another Body's; there you meet with your Sharpers to Butter a Cul; Nor are we behind hand with you in this point; for at the Sign of the Angel, we can play all Day and Night too; and honest Jack can top or palm with any Man; he has your high and low, flat and smooth: But I care not to Drink after

( 24 )

my Landlord, lest I should get more than I desire, and challenge me with finding his Palate. While you go to the Mulbery, or Spring-Garden, we recreate our selves at the Sign of the Chimney-Sweeper, or at the Red-Cow; but if your Philosophy has taught you to be frugal, and not drink brewed Wine but content your selves with a Mug of Nappy-Ale, why, the George in East-Cheap, the Horseshoe in blow-bladder-street, the Fountain by Clare-Market, or, The Lyon and Bast, in Red-Lyon-street, cannot draw better Beer than Sam. Greaves at the Sun and Garter or my Friend China at the Red Rose. While you are bargaining at Garraway's we can talk at Farra's, and see every body that passes by: If at any Time We get a Run, Clap, or Gonorrhea, we have no necessity to go near Ludgate, or the Minories; we have as eminent a Quack among us as any you can produce; Who pretends to as much knowledge in those affairs, and yet has as little skill as your old Freind the Doctor, who gives you an Advertisement now and then with a finger and Thumb before it instead of a N.B. to make it the more remarkable. Yes, Faith Doctor T———ham will cure the most inveterate, most confirm'd Pox without Fluxing, by the help of 8 Doses of Physick, Without a Grain of Mercury but a sufficient Quantity of Calomel. And herein we excell you again, for not to mention his Vigour in his youthful Days (for he kissed thrice in 24 hours for 20 Years Successively, if you believe what he says) he could formerly have told you any forreign news a Week before it came Over in the Packets, for he retained certain Familiars Whom he fed with Wine and Mackroons, but this Dyet proving too expensive, and there being an Act of Parliament against publick Wagers, he thought it not worth his while to keep them any longer, so dismiss'd them: Now can any of your Star-Gazers,

 can your famous Moor-fields Astrologer tell, who pretending to give other people Intelligence little thinks who is at the same time in his own Wife's Circle?

---

To conclude we have as many Trades and Callings, as many People for the bigness of the Place, as you have on the other Side of the Water; and you exceed us in nothing but your Number of Chairs and Coaches.

Si quid ovisti rectius estis Candidne imperti.

