APPENDIX

CONTAINING

OBSERVATIONS

CONCERNING

FOREIGN PRISONS and HOSPITALS:

COLLECTED

BY Mr. HOWARD,

IN HIS CONCLUDING TOUR.

TOGETHER WITH

TWO LETTERS TO Mr. HOWARD,

FROM JOHN HAYGARTH, M. D.

ADVERTISEMENT.

THE Papers left by Mr. Howard were brought to England by his servant, and by him delivered, with the rejl of the effebls, to his executors. To the larger memorandum-book, consisting of a fair transcript of his daily notes and observations, the following notice was found prefixed, written upon a blank leaf.

<c Memorandum.

<c If these rough Notes should ever be thought proper to be printed, they should be “ corrected and revised by my friend Dr. Price, or Dr. Aikin; and the latter tf to correct the press.”

“ JOHN HOWARD.”

In consequence of this direction, the Papers were sent to Dr. Price, at the time when he was unfortunately incapacitated, by the illness of which he died, from attending to them. At his desire, they were forwarded to me; and I loft no time in performing the task committed to me, of fitting them for the press. Dr. Haygarth’s excellent Letters to Mr. Howard on Lazarettos were, with his concurrence, subjoined, at my request, by the publishers.

Great Yarmouth, JOHN AIKIN.

Dec. i, 1791.

APPENDIX

INTRODUCTION.

IN the account of the principal Lazarettos in Europe, which I published the beginning of the year 1789, I mentioned that it was my intention again to quit my country, for the purpose of re-visiting Rufiia, Turkey, and some other countries, and adding an Appendix to that work j as I wished to gain further knowledge on a subject that for some years had engaged my attention and with the hope that the torch of philanthropy might be conveyed into remote countries. In confidence on God, who had been my help, I cheerfully set out on my journey, and came to Amsterdam the 7th of July, 1789; where I first visited the hospitals for the sick.

In the City Hospital, the apertures that have been lately made in the ceiling of the men’s ward, make that room fresher than the women’s lofty ward and I observed to the physician, "whom I met on one of my visits, that in such long wards, a window, such as was in Guy's Hospital, (of which I shewed him the model) from the ceiling to the floor, would be proper. All the wards were clean; but the patients, neither in their linen nor persons, were so attentive to cleanliness as might have been wished 5 a fault which the prejudice of the faculty, relative to the unfalutarinefs of fresh linen, has to answer for. The black stone or marble floor made the doflor put on flippers over his shoes: I could not but wish the floor was boarded round the patients beds.

The Pest-house is out of the city. At both my visits, I had the pleasure to find every ward sweet and clean, the patients calm and quiet, and that order that I wish. to find in all hospitals. This I the more readily mention, as the state of this house occasioned me to censure it in a former work. Here were 107 men and 129 women.

A 2 . In

Holland.

Amsterdam.

HOLLAND.

In the STADT-HOusE many judicious alterations have been made in the debtors’ room, by the worthy president, burgomaster Randal'p; and in a further allowance to the aliment of prisoners. He, with Mr. Sheriff Hartfinck, did me the honor to accompany me into the dungeons, and other prison-rooms. The torture-chamber, and the different engines and modes of torture, to force a confession of a suspedled crime, I give no account of, as I know those amiable magistrates wish such a practice abolished. There were fix criminals and twenty-three debtors.

I visited the Rasp-house: die prisoners talk is not heavy (50lb. of logwood) as they, have all done at three o’clock: their friends are allowed to visit them in the court three days in the week, viz. Monday, Thursday, and Friday, but muff pay two stivers, as

all other persons, to the keeper. The court not washed, and is offensive. One of my

visits was on a Sunday morning, to attend the public service, which began in the chapel at nine o’clock. The prisoners, between 70 and 80, came decently in, and seated themselves on benches. One on the first form flood up, and called over by his lift all their names, to which each answered. The chaplain then began the service with a short extempore prayer 3 he read a psalm, and most of the prisoners having books, they sung 3 He then prayed for a quarter of an hour, and afterwards preached 3 then catechised ten of the prisoners, and expounded each of the questions to them. He again prayed, sung an hymn, and concluded

with a short prayer. The service continued two hours: the prisoners, who were neat

and clean, behaved with the greatest decency and attention 3 not even a smile or whisper did'I fee amongst them. One having for a few minutes dozed, the chaplain flopped and reprimanded him 3 he made a very humble excuse: the keeper immediately ordered a stoppage of his tobacco 3 but as he was one of the catechumens who was most expert in his answers, it was made up to him. The Jews are, very properly, excused attending. Not the least noise in the court 3 which I should have heard, as I fat close to die window. —I have formerly mentioned the abridgment of the term of confinement at Lady-day by the old magistrates, who examine the books, and attend to the report of the chaplain and keeper 3 which is a strong incentive to the decent, diligent, and proper behaviour of prisoners. I must again remark, that the children of these persons, as of those who are executed for capital crimes, are not left destitute vagabonds, but are brought up in the orphan-house, that they may not be inheritors of the folly and wickedness of their parents. In the new workhouse, July 13, there were 730 prisoners.

The Infirmary was somewhat cleaner than at my former visit, but the patients had no sheets 3 the other bed-rooms full of Vermin: the mendicants too thinly clad, by fluff lpun and wove in the house. That part called the Spin-hoije is under another direction: here all was in order; prisoners at work 3 the notable mistress at her desk: her rooms all neat and clean, linen on the beds, and these prisoners much warmer and better clothed. This department, from many years observation and visits, seems to me the bell model of a house for the correction and reformation of the faulty of the female sex.

The sheriff was so kind as to give me the lift of the executions at Amsterdam, with

the names and crimes of the sufferers, from the beginning of the year 1780, to the

time

HOLLAND.

5'

time I was there in 1789; by which I find only nine persons have, during that period, been executed in that populous and trading city *.

* In a former publication I mentioned the number of deaths in Amllerdam, to the year 1782. I now con-

tinue it, with r *783 ‘ ■ 9>M

1784 - - 10,301

1785 - - 7,108

1786 - - 7,8or

1787 - - 8,612

1788 - - 10,354

r add.

Extracts of Observations on the populousness of Amsterdam; ly Dr. Houttuyn, pullijked in 1783.

This gentleman supposes that there are, in Amllerdam, at lead 200,000 fouls; and supports his hypothecs by the following arguments.

1. In the year 1622, the inhabitants were numbered, and found to be about 100,000; the yearly number of deaths was then, on an average, full 4,000. The yearly number of deaths is now full 8,000; consequently' the number of inhabitants m ty be estimated at 200,000.

2. In the year 1768, the number of inhabited houses was nearly 30,000; and the D oft or supposes, that' from that time to 1783, there was an annual increase of 50 houses, which brings the number, in 1783, to 30,750. Reckoning, therefore, 7 persons to every house, the number will be 215,250 fouls.—N.B. Maitland, in estimating the populousness of London, supposes 15 persons to every two houses.

3. The number of families, in the year 1747, were found to be 41,561; and, from the additional houses built fir.ee that time, he estimates the number to be increased to 46,000; reckoning these at only 4I to each family, the number of fouls will amount to 207,000; if the families be estimated at five persons each, the amount" will be 230,000.

4. This calculation is further confirmed by the number of members of the several religious persuasions. Of the Dutch established church, the number of communicants is 70,000. As these are seldom received as such till sixteen years of age, the Dottor adds 35,000 for those who are younger, agreeable to Dr. Halley’s • tftimate, that, of the number of those actually living, 3-ioths are under 15~ years old.

Thus the communicants of the established church are Add - non-communicants

Lutherans, communicants - r -Add ~ non-communicants -

Roman Catholics, communicants

Add non-communicants, because admitted younger -

Arminians, Anabaptists, Sec. - -

Jews, who increase very much yearly - -

- 70,000

- 35,000

— ----- 105,000

- 30,000

- 15,000 45,000

- 30,000

• 10,000

— ----- 40,000

10,000

« - - 20,000

In

According to this calculation

220,000 fouls.

6

OSNABURGH. HANOVER.

Utrecht. In the Stadt-house at Utrecht, there were no prisoners for capital crimes. A few men for small offences were on bread and water; as I have seen in Germany for drunkenness and riot; a longer or shorter term being left to the discretion of the magistrate.—I have mentioned in my former publications, that there had been no execution in the city or province the last twenty years j I have now further to add, that there has been none since my first visit in 1776.

Os n a - The prison at Osnaburgh is both the gaol and house of correction, the description of

r ’ which I gave in my former publications. The floor below the ground is for capital offenders: the cells are close, dark," and offensive; they open into strong passages. In one of these was a poor objefl, who was ironed hands and feet, and also chained to the wall of his cell. His wife I found in an offensive and dark cell, in an upper floor, weeping and bitterly lamenting her unhappy situation. I waited on the chief magistrate, who very readily and kindly assured me, that orders should be immediately given to soften the rigour of her conflnement, and that the door of her room should be kept open into the passage.

On that floor, appropriated for correction, there were eight men and seven women; they were clothed in brown and blue coats, and were employed in spinning. They are pro- * perly fed in three meals, and have one pound and a half of bread, a good bowl of greens, and a pint and a half of beer a day, all of which I found good of the fort. These rooms also were, as on my former visits, very dirty and offensive; this I mentioned to Le Baron de Borjch; he said' the prisoners should, as in Holland, have the Saturdays entirely devoted to the washing and cleaning the house j which is the more necessary as there is no court to this prison. These prisoners attend public worship, where there is service on Sundays, one part of the day for Protestants, the other for Roman Catholics; and each chaplain has his (proper) desk, for his bcoks and ornaments. The Jews have every indulgence, as to their labbath, diet, and clothes. I have formerly mentioned, that the mode of torture here, is more excruciating than in mod other countries; and is known by the name of the OJnaburgh torture, and this has still been improved upon by a conseiller from Paderborn.

Hanover. At Hanover there were no criminals for capital offences in the prison on July 22d. In rooms up flairs there were seven prisoners j one a very pale objefl. On observing several chalk marks in his room, he said they were the weeks of his confinement (42) and his process not finished. Others were not begun. This I have hinted at before; but this well-known evil still continues. I also, in my last publication, said, that the execrable practice of torturing prisoners is here used. I am sorry to say it is not abolished, but still in the power of magistrates to inflifl.

In October 1781, I had the honor to wait on his royal highness the Bishop of Ofna-burgh in the castle. 1 then informed him, that his executioner had lately been brought hither to inflict the Osnaburgh torture on a criminal. His royal highness desired some description of it: the cruel mode struck his highness; and I then referred him to the judge, who was presentj adding, that in this tour I had been in Sweden, where, by a

late

HANOVER.

7

late good and popular act of the king, torture was abolished, and that the door into that cellar in the prison at Stockholm was ordered to be closed and bricked up *.—I beg leave, on this subject, to copy the late king of Prussia’s order j- for the abolition of the torture, who set the noble example the 3d of June 1740.

1

* Have I not often reason, with a sigh, to say, “ I labour in vain, and spend my drength for noughtBut I have resolved, by the help of God, to give myself wholly to this work.

Note. In France, by the “ Decret fur la riformation provifoire de la procedure criminelle,', du Samedi 11 OSlobre 1789, I’JJfemblee Nationale considere que “Uufage de la fellette au dernier inlerrcgatcire, et la quest'ton dans tous Us cas, 41 font abolis.”

f <c HIS ROYAL MAJESTY OF PRUSSIA, OUR MOST GRACIOUS SOVEREIGN,

“Having been induced, by urgent reasons, to repeal entirely the torture in all his dominions in criminal cases, those of high treason, and treachery against the country excepted, also those of hideous murders, where the lives of many have been taken away, or where many criminals have become accomplices to one another, whose connections it is necessary to discover:

“ In all other cases, where the delinquents, notwithstanding the cleared: proofs and dronged evidence of many valid and legal witnesses, and the like, perfid, by a malicious obdinacy, in not owning their guilt, they shall be punished according to the law.

“ In consequence whereof, his Royal Majesty orders mod graciously his actual privy minider of date, Dc Cocceji, to fee the needful done.

“ Charlottenburg, (Was ligned)

the 3d June 1740. Friederick.’

44 To the minider of date, De Cocceji.”

K FREDERICK KING OF PRUSSIA, &c. &c. &c.

The inclosed copy of a privy order, dated 3d indant, Ihows more circumdantially, in how far it is our will to have the torture in criminal cases abolished.

“In consequence hereof, you will conform yourselves most dutifully to the same, and act accordingly where it will be required.

“ Berlin, (Was signed)

the 19th June 1740. C 0 c c e j 1.”

“ To all colleges and courts of law.”

“ It is hereby atteded, that the above copies, after a drift collation, have been found exactly corresponding with the original acts, that are repodted in the royal privy archive. To tedify the truth, I have signed the presents by my own hand, and applied the seal of the privy archive.

“ Berlin, (Signed)

7th Augud 1789, Chr, Aug. Lud. Valaproth,

His Majesty’s privy keeper of records, and secretary.”

The

s

HANOVER.

Brunswick.

The orphan house and house of correction, which is out of the town, was in great order; but, on seeing the children at dinner, I could not help observing that, by their countenances, something was wrong in that house, as they had a pale and uneasy look. We afterwards found the bed-rooms dirty, the bedding scanty, and no linen to them; the children fed by the mailer, at i gro5 and i fen& each, — id. The good burgomalter Almann> the noble founder of this institution, is dead since my last visit; but I am persuaded his kinf-man, Mr. Conseiller Falke, the present director, will make some alterations for the benefit of this eltablilhment.

The orphan house and house of correction for the town, is an old building, and not very clean; yet, the children had a more healthy and cheerful look than those I last visited: they, I found, were better fed, and had linen on their beds. The prison part for men was empty; but the room for women, in which were io or 12, was very dirty, and intolerably offensive. In this house I saw Mr. Conseiller Falke, with the minilter, and two or three other gentlemen, distribute the weekly allowance to the poor, who received what was given them with thankfulness, and retired in great order: those (poor) women, who did not refuse to sweep the streets, had a small addition made to their allowance. The town is divided into seven distri&s; to each of which is appointed a respectable person, to whom the poor, in case of sickness, make application, and he makes his report to a magistrate appointed for that purpose, who direCtly orders the physician of that distriCt to attend such pauper. The physician makes his report every quarter.

The hospital of St. Nicholas is an old and good institution for freemen’s widows, wives, or daughters. Here are 16 apartments, each confiding of a small room for a kitchen, a little dining-room, and a bed-chamber. The inhabitants pay about £. 10 on entrance, and have their apartment for life, with a little garden; and gratefully, enjoy some other small emoluments belonging to this charity.

The hospital for the sick is only one large room, crowded with beds, in which are patients of both sexes,

A new military hospital is now building, on an improper spot. It is too contracted, and on a bad plan, as the rooms will be only 17 feet by about 8£, and these will open into a dark passage about 6\ feet wide.

BRUNSWICK. The tower over one of the gates, which was the prison for capital offences at my former visits, is now taken down, and such prisoners are sent to the Stadt-house. Hfre were on the three floors, only four prisoners; their allowance two bonne grojche a day each, which is about jfi/. In the house of correction I read the order and conformed to it again with pleasure, viz. c< That decent people may inspect the house; but no more than four at a time; that they mult put a florin (about is. 6 d.) into the box, for the prisoners whose term is expired, to afiift them on passing on their journey, and prevent them from begging or stealing: lastly, nothing must be given to the keepers, or

to

BRUNSWICK' BERLIN.

9

to the prisoners confined for punishment.” Here were 41 men and 50 women; the employment, spinning and weaving. The diet is in four classes and according to their work. I observed on the slate there were only two on the first class, or the belt diet, and four on the lowest, which is 1 lb. of bread, a little soup and small beer. The house was very dirty, the floors never washed, though so many women prisoners; the only clean room was the chapel on the upper floor.—But a proper attention to cleanliness ran through all the hospitals for the sick. In that for the military, there were nine rooms, but only two patients, the troops being at Maestricht. Though the torture is not abolished, I had the pleasure to hear that the last instance of a person suffering it was about eighteen years ago, and that the room had not since been opened; but by the favour of Mr. FrederJdorff> conseiller de justice, it was opened. The descent is by fifteen steps, to a dark room, in which are some of the instruments of torture: through this room is another arched room or cellar 18 feet by 15, very black and dark: at one end is a bench for the judge, lawyer, secretary and surgeon; opposite them is a table for candles, books &c. The prisoner who suffers the torture, the executioner and his man, are before them. This is done about midnight, though the thickness of the walls (three feet) the four doors (which I passed), the dirt floor, and depth under ground, must prevent the moll agonizing cries from being heard any where but in that room. I saw all the remaining engines of torture, which are kept at the executioner’s house. He seemed with pleasure to shew the mode of application on the first, second and last question; and very readily answered any enquiries, having been several years in that occupation at Hanover; though here (he said) he had only beheaded four or five. On asking if nothing was put into the tortured person’s mouth, as I had in some places seen, he replied “ No, the Osnaburgh executioner-thinks they fuflrer lefsj” and on his describing some of the modes of torture (which the wit of devils and men had invented,) he said, “ Sir, the Osnaburgh torture is still ruder.” '

But I hasten to another country, where the torture has not been inflicted for above twice eighteen years, viz. BERLIN. In the court prison there were eighteen men, debtors and smugglers, and two women spinning cotton to earn their allowance of one grofche and a half a day: the former in the upper rooms of the old prison, the latter in a new and separate part adjoining; the old dungeons being not now used. I have mentioned the punishment of smugglers {landing exposed at the gate with a machine round them, called a Spanish mantle, similar to a plate I gave of it at Copenhagen. Here also is a machine in which she hands and neck of women are fastened, called a fiddle, and they stand exposed for one hour for three succeslive days. This prison was quiet and in great order. In the city prilc-n there were about ninety prisoners, many of them smugglers or debtors j several prisoners in the dungeons (11 feet 9 inches by nine) their processes long; the whole prison dirty, never white-Avalhed. In the court, there were men, women, and boys. The gaoler fells liquors of all forts. The allowance to debtors, paid by their creditors, is two grofche a day, about 2id.: the criminals have if grofche.

B

Berlin.

The

10

BERLIN. SPANDAU.

SPANDAU.

The Maison de travail I found in the fame good order as in my former visits; in July there were 480 persons, vagrants &c. confined; their chief employment carding and spinning wool. In their diet they are in three clafies; but the very great number of men, women, and children who were at work together in one room, and in a house where a separation might easily be made, mull in several views be improper.—In the Orphan house there were 60 boys and 60 girls: the children clean and fresh; walk three times a day; bathe every Friday; the bed-rooms clean; the boys lie single. The infirmary an old house, and too far from the hospital.—In La Charite or General Hospital, several rooms contain ten beds, and the patients pay a florin, about is. 6d. a week. Here are rooms for lying-in women; and apartments of two rooms for persons who pay 100 florins. In a large room, a neat table was set out for the convalescent patients, which I have often wished for in other hospitals. Here is no military hospital, but each regiment has one or two Tick rooms: in each were seven or eight beds. Those I visited were clean and moll of them empty, which in great part is owing to the strict discipline, constant exercising and reviewing the men, and many having wives, who also have a small weekly pay, and with their husbands a room in each caferne.

In the fortress at SPANDAU there were, August 4, 1789, a hundred and seventy-one prisoners: several of them are condemned for life: one had been here thirty-two years. Their allowance is only ilh. of bread and water, and after the first year a frock and breeches, a shirt, a pair of stockings and one pair of shoes, annually. They are to work four hours a day for the king; and when the governor employs them as carpenters or masons, he gives them two grojche a day, equal to about 3! d. Many of them were spinning cotton for their own emolument at their leisure hours; but several had an iron collar round their neck, the mark of their contentions and quarrels. Their rooms under the ramparts, very close, dirty, and crowded; and as the governor (Scott, our countryman) is desirous of softening the rigour of confinement, and has fitted up two rooms for the sick, I will here take the liberty to drop a few hints.—The prisoners should not lie on shelves over the other prisoners; but there should be only one row of barrack beds, each person to be allowed two feet four inches, with an oak partition of ten inches at the head, and fix inches at the feet: an aperture for light and air to be made in the centre of the vaulted rooms 5 and twice a year, the rooms walked by the prisoners with fresh lime and boiling water; each partition to have proper bedding, that the prisoners may not, as they now do, lie in their clothes; and also to be numbered; and no prisoner to change the place allotted him, without the consent of the governor. A room to be appropriated for a work room. The court enlarged by putting the pales 40 feet back; three or four-stone basons for walking their linen; and the reservoir for soaking timber, which seemed not used, would make the most proper and lalutary cold bath for them. No spirituous liquors on any account to be sold to them. The rules and orders as to cleanliness, sobriety, work &c. to be signed by the governor, and read to them in the chapel the first: Sunday in every

month.

N

SPANDAU. KONINGSBERG.

month. In the upper room of one of the towers there was a state prisoner: underneath there was a dreadful dungeon * a prisoner had been removed from thence the morning I was there. I have formerly mentioned, that women are not permitted to continue a night in the castle; but whilst I was walking with the governor, the mother of one of the prisoners humbly petitioned that she might fee her son, which was readily granted, and a guard attended her.

The House of Correction I found in the fame neat and good order as in 1778 and 1781. Most of the prisoners were women; the chief employment now was spinning cotton and not wool; a small part of their earnings they have to buy a little tea, milk &rc.

The prilon is in a close part of the city; the rooms are on the two upper floors; in one of which rooms there were seven men; and in another, eight women spinning. 1 observed, none of the men were in irons; I was told they are never tried in irons, nor are they put on, till after conviction.* In an upper room there were eleven sick women; these I understood were not prisoners, yet, if I might conjecture, sent there to perish by nastiness and neglect:.

In the House of Correction, August 13, 1789, there were 26 men and 42 women. Here was no separation of the old and young, of the lesser from the greater criminals; no inducement or hope by good behaviour of shortening their term. The first view of the countenances of the prisoners, convinced me of fad neglect: no infirmary: the sick with hardly a blanket to cover them; the men in irons. From two or three that were dying I requested the magistrates that their irons might be taken off, as the surgeon with us had no feeling for them. The sick women in three other rooms were dirty beyond description, and seemed in want of every comfort of life. The inspector and keeper, old and infirm. The magistrates, on this visit with me, were covered with vermin. I mentioned the custom in the Dutch spin-houses of devoting the whole day of Saturday to washing, and that this also introduces habits of cleanliness in the female sex. f

The old House of Correction, which was burnt down last winter, was situated near the river, and had a spacious airing ground: the two wheels or the machine for stamping dyers

• In some Roman Catholic countries, I have been informed that the priests have refused to administer the sacrament to prisoners, unless their irons were taken off.

f In several places I now take the liberty to mention what seemed to me an obvious remedy to some defedb that happened to strike me. I hope it will not be thought by any gentleman, that I do it in the style of a dictator. Yet should it be alked, why I did not so generally do it in my first publications, I reply, that my purpose then was to collect! what was good, with a view of a reform in my own country; as I did not think any observations of so private an individual would either reach the eye of foreign magistrates, or be attended to by them: but, it has pleased God to order it otherwise; it would therefore be, on my part, refusing to do the good offered to my endeavours, were I to abstain from such remarks as may correct abuses, and alleviate misery in all the places I visit.

1 B 2

11

KONINGSBERG.

12

KONINGSBERG. MEMEI, MITTAU. RIGA.

wood were not burnt. These were worked by eight men, two in each \vheel, one hundred turns; and one prisoner was inspector.

Here is another house of correction, with a neat garden, and near a pleasant lake: there were about thirty prisoners in separate and clean rooms; the prisoners looked clean and healthy, which on my noticing to the keeper Gottlieb Urbani, he said he had lived 37 ‘years in Russia, and had erected a bath in his garden for bathing and sweating; and that his prisoners every Saturday in some warm room thoroughly washed and cleaned themselves. The kind attention of the magistrates, emboldened me to alk permission to copy the plan of this Ruffian bathing house; which the privy-counsellor Hippel, readily granted.—The general hospital for the poor, sick, and insane, confids of several houses in a court. In the sick wards, I found the surgeon, who seemed sensible of the necessity of freffi air, clean-liness and a proper diet, to prolong life, and redore the health of his patients. The bread for the house was good rye bread, being well made and well baked. I mention not the closeness of the cells of the insane, as a new hospital was building for such objects of compassion.

Memei. In the Castle at MEMEL, there were, Augud 17th 1789, 57 men and n women;

moll of them were in dark and damp rooms built against the fortifications, and without bedding. Their allowance is 1 lb. of bread and water; their employment, removing the ballad that is flung out of ships. There were only 22 out at work, but at times there are so many vessels, that there is work for all the men and women. Some of the prisoners were sick, the others had a pale and languid look. If such rooms were kept clean, and scraped and lime-whited twice a year, and a little bedding were given to the prisoners, they would be more healthy, and having more light, be better enabled to gain a small trifle by their work.

Mittau, At MITTAU in Courland twelve of the criminals or slaves who were in irons with a chain between each leg, as at Memei, were at work hewing and sawing timber for the palace, which was burnt last winter. I observed they were as handy and quiet as the other workmen in the court; and though I repeated my visit to them and was alone, none of them flopped their work, or gave the lead hint of a requed for money: three were sick, and as such were objefls of compassion.

Riga. The prison and house of correction (Zughthuys) is a square building in the citadel: the prifcn part was very dirty and offensive, and little attention paid to order, the separation of the sexes &c.; but in the Zughthuys, the prisoners had a cheerful and healthy look; the rooms were clean. Here were seven hand mills, and fix men were grinding corn: in another part fix women working on a lighter mill. The other prisoners who were not capable of such hard work were spinning. The former, work in dimmer from four to eleven, and from one to eight; and in winter from fix to twelve, and from one to eight in the evening; their allowance 22 K of bread and some gruel made of grits which was good.

RIGA.

Every fortnight these prisoners use the warm bath which adjoins to the prison. About ten miles from Riga, the slaves or condemned persons, were in a prison or oftrog, similar to-that I gave the plan of at Mojcow j namely, several wooden houses, surrounded with high pales. The rooms contained about 42 persons j each had his bedstead, and moil of them a little bedding. The two sick rooms were clean and not sanded, fresher and more airy than-the military hospital, the beds not being crowded, and each man had his bed. In one of the other rooms they were all foreigners, (42) most of them for debt, some for so small sums as three or f ur rubles (eight to eleven shillings) but with some unfavourable cir--cumstances attending the debt, so that persons ate not permitted immediately to discharge them. They are allowed from government twenty copecs (6£V.) a day, eight of which are for their diet, clothes &c. and the other twelve for their creditors, till the whole debt is paid off. These were also in irons and work with the criminals at the public works. In other rooms were 345 prisoners. In a small inner room, I found two Ruffians, sent Hither about four years ago: they had a guard at the door, and had never been out of the room, and are heavy ironed both hands and feet: they are never spoken to, nor is their crime known: they had suffered the punishment of the knout, (which in my former publication I have described) and had a piece cut out of each nostril,- and the mark on the cheeks, which is the signature of their condemnation for life. I saw several others thus marked for murder or other very capital crimes. All the prisoners were in irons, and work in summer from four to eleven, and from one to eight, unless sick, which the surgeon comes every morning to examine. There were 311 out, the day I was there, hewing timber, driving piles, wheeling and carrying the stones for a fine mole 65- feet wide and half a mile long, on which they had been employed six years-: their allowance is fix copecs a day, for which all their clothing and provision is found j the former bad, the latter very-, indifferent- As to religious instruction, once a year only they go to the chapel in the citadel; and on the other Sundays they amuse themselves, or make shoes &c. About a fortnight before my visit, the head knout-master was brought from-St. Peterjburgh, who being with the other two knout-masters at a public-house, they happened to quarrel: he-immediately struck off the head of one of them the other seeming to resent it, he dexter-oufly decapitated him also. As no crime, not even that crying one of. shedding blood, is punished in Russia with death, this man had received 270 strokes of the knout, the executioner from Mojcoiv being brought for that purpose; and being condemned for life, w\as marked as before described. Here he met several of his former acquaintance to whom he had given the knout, and on being asked in how many strokes he could kill a man, he said, if a strong man, he could-in five and twenty, but if not strong, in twenty strokes.

At the Stadt-House there are rooms for the town debtors, and here were only two or three: down 25 steps are two dungeons, and here was only one person and not in irons, and he could receive alms at a grated window; the Ruffians being very kind to such persons, as I was informed at the other prison.

The

RIGA. ST. PETERSBURG.

14

The military hospital is three miles out of town: it consists of several houses in a large quadrangle: at the entrance are those for the physician, surgeons, chaplains &c.: the houses for the patients consist of four double wards, and can have no opposite windows; these wards are low, dirty, and offensive, and the passages still more so, by the poisonous sewers. The beds arc crowded; the sick lie on boards saturated with infection: the walls seemed never white-washed. These circumstances, even without attending to the improper diet of the patients, prevented any surprize when I was informed that four or five hundred recruits had died there the beginning of the year. At my visit, there were upwards of 400 sick.

St. Peters- At St. PETERSBURG I took partly the fame round of the prisons and hospitals that BUEG- J had done just: eight years before. As to the former there has been little alteration; and the new house of correction, which was then nearly finished, has never been inhabited, and is going to ruin, as many of the upper floors are fallen in; so that I now shall pass over the prisons, and with pleasure mention some of the improvements in the hospitals of this city.

The marine and military hospitals nearly join, and make a large square with a morass in the middle; which if formed into a bason with a canal into the river Neva, would be salutary and sightly. The rooms were all empty, and lately white-washed, except three, in which were venereal patients, and 36 slaves who had their irons on. All the other sick were in the summer lazaretto, which I formerly mentioned with great approbation. These are rooms made of wood in an enclosed area or garden, the size 40 feet by 26: most of them have nine windows on each of the two Tides, and two opposite doors at the ends, with apertures over them. These rooms have chimnies, are floored, and are about nine inches from the (sandy) ground- They are 20 feet asunder; each room contains about 4a patients, who have separate beds. The rooms were in general clean and quiet; but some much more so than others, according to the disposition of the two (women) nurses that were allotted to each room. In the centre is the bathing house. The number given me of all the sick at one of my visits, namely, Aug. 31, 1789, was 534.

A new and splendid hospital has been erected just: out of the city, and opposite a fine canal: the rooms were spacious, lofty and clean, and had been lately white-washed. The patients were of both sexes, in separate summer lazaretts in the adjoining court; the rooms and beds were clean and neat. Men and women prisoners come here every day; the latter to wash and clean the rooms, the former to remove what is offensive from the outside sewers of every room.

At that great institution, the house of education for noble ladies and commoners, which I gave an account of in my publication 1784, I found the good old lady Madame Lafon still presiding over it.

At the foundling and inoculating hospitals, and at that noble institution the military cadet

corps.

ST. PETERSBURG. CRONSTADT.

corps, I passed three or four mornings. In these visits I freely spoke my mind, either irr commending what I thought right, or mentioning what I thought amiss -} endeavouring to enforce my observations by what was done in similar circumstances in other countries, or shewing the models of the windows Sec. in our own.

I cannot leave St. Peterjburg without mentioning a pleasant hour that I spent with the good old general Be Betjkoi, the enlightened and liberal head and director general of some of the greatest institutions in Russia.

The 9th and 10th of September 1789,1 visited the marine hospital of CRONSTADT, Cron-which consists of several double wards, raised about four feet from the ground. The en- STADT* trance is by dark and very offensive rooms r the wards are narrow, low, and ceiled with wood; and have no apertures: the floors were sanded, which yet did not hide the dirt: many of the beds are close to one another; and indeed little hopes can a patient have of recovery in such a feetid air.—Adjoining are eight summer lazaretts, which are airy and spacious wood buildings, each containing about 44 beds. These wards were sanded, which I object also to, as a harbour for vermin. The attendants on the ficlc are all men. Here were about 320 patients, and in the other wards 270. The third or upper floor of the new barracks is now used only pro tempore, for the sick: these were eight double wards j they were quite clean, being washed twice a week, and not sanded j the bedding clean, and did credit to the attention of our countryman the physician who presides over them. Here were 318 patients. Though these rooms are generally occupied by the sailors when the fleet is in the port, yet I shall take the liberty to hint, that where the ceilings are so low, there should be apertures in them, or near them in the fide walls} and the upper part of the windows should open; and great attention should be paid to prevent the offenfivenefs of the sewers. The prevalent disorders here as at Riga were the intermittent fevers, and the feurvy, with the bloody flux. The diet within a few months has been altered, and seems directly opposite to these disorders; the patients having now no milk, rice, barley, or lage tea, no mutton or veal broth; but beef and beef broth; rye bread, which was both badly made and baked; quas four and flat; and a vile decoction, which was brought in a tub every morning and served to all those patients who chose it.

With what concern must a feeling mind be struck, when many objects are looking up for help and the probability of a cure is thus cut off!

In the old prison there were 91 criminals and about 200 slaves lent here by their mailers or landlords: these latter were separated from the former, but none had any beds: the rooms very dirty, and the prisoners seemed sadly neglected.

• I mentioned in my former account, that I had seen at Cronjladt the ground marked out for a new prison which was to be crested under the superintendence of our countryman admiral Greig; but the prisoners and the sick here, as well as many others, have reason to lament the death of this good and great man; whose favourite maxim was, " If I cannot do what I would, I will do what I can.”

I looked

i6

T W EH. MOSCOW.

Twer, I looked into the hospital and prison at TWER. In the former there were only about half z dozen patients; in the latter, the men and women prisoners had their separate rooms on the first floor: there are no dungeons: the prison was very dirty, and not white-washed since I was here eight years ago, when it was just built. The prisoners subsist on bread, as much as they now chule, and the charitable contributions from the box fixed on a pillar on the outside.

Moscow, The Prison or Ojirog at MOSCOW, of which I gave the plan and description in my publication in 1784, is now disused, and about four years ago its place supplied by a prison built of brick, with a surrounding wall; which contained at one of my visits, in September 1789, 41 prisoners, whose sentences were not determined; 185 criminals, 34 women, and 18 sick; in all 2.78. The chapel is in the centre of the building, from which four doors open into the opposite passages, which are dark and narrow, scarcely five feet wide. On each fide are the rooms for the prisoners, with stoves and barrack-beds, but without bedding. One of the quarters is appropriated to women; another to criminals whose trials are not finiftted; another to petty offenders; and a fourth is used for an infirmary, and for prisoners of not the lowest rank. All the rooms have their windows towards the area and the surroundin"

O

wall, and apertures to the passages. There is a dark room for the unruly. No wine or spirits are permitted to be bought in the prison; but beer and any sort of bread.

The Infirmary consists of only one room for both flexes; but there were in it only 18 men, most of them miserable objects: several with fevers; no bedding, and little or no attention paid them; as some of the sick declared they had had nothing all day, anc^it was then five in the evening. Each of the quarters has a kitchen, which seemed of little use, as the prisoners chiefly subsist on charity; there being for this purpose several tin boxes placed on the outside of the prison, and a chest between the outer and inner gates. These are opened every Saturday, and the money divided among the prisoners.

In the exercise of this charity the Ruffians are not defective, as by the looks of the prisoners they seemed not in great want of necessaries. Hence I conclude, that the nation is humane; and in travelling through a great tract of the country, the peasants appeared to me of a kind and hospitable dilposition.

New Government, or City Prison. To the court and rooms of this prison is a descent by a flight of many stone steps. There are two dirty and damp rooms, in which are confined both debtors and criminals, men and women, without any distindtion, or any allowance. They lie on barrack-boards round the rooms, but without any bedding. The prisoners are miserable objects, who subsist on occasional charity. Such a prison is a dilgrace to any civilized country. Here were about 80 prisoners; sometimes there are 150 in one of these rooms.

The Military Prison for deserters, consists of two rooms, each io\ feet square. Round three fides of the room is a shelf, where part lie: no bedding: no regular allowance: they subsist chiefly on charitable contributions. On observing to the officer who attended me, that there were some old men among them, he said that there were some who had been away twelve years.

MOSCOW. CREMENTSCHUOK. 17

Grand Duke's Hospital. This having been burned down since I was at Mefcow, 1 was desirous of seeing if any improvements had been made. It is built on the fame spot, as few so near the city could be better, it having a fine open plain in front. It is on one floor, elevated a few steps from the garden. The rooms are lofty, and all of them have now an aperture in the ceiling, and the upper part of the windows open, which I found in few or no other hospital in Russia. The rooms were neat and clean: all the beds of blue linen, clean, and of a convenient size, (fix feet two, by two feet ten) not crowded, but with room on each fide for making them. I tailed the bread, milk, and beer, and found them good; and indeed this small hospital would do credit to any country. Here were nineteen men and seven women; besides about the fame number in the venereal wards, which are detached from the house; as are also, very properly, the kitchen and offices.

At the Military Hospital I found the bread very black, and neither well made nor baked. I shewed it to the Doctor, and then put the question to him, " Whether or no he thought « the present alteration in the diet of the military and marine for the better ?” But he was cautious, and did not choose to give me an answer. The purpose of this alteration is to fortify them, and render them able to endure hardships; but it should have been considered, that the prevalent disorders among those people are scurvy and putrid fevers. I had been twice over the four great wards of this hospital, before my visit to the first physician, and had found all the windows Ihut. When I went over them with him, he seemed surprized at what I told him, and ordered a proper number of windows to be opened; but, two hours after, all but one were Ihut again.

The Hospital for Deserters, in the midlt of a court, in which were several sick rooms, was airy and fresh. The vents in the ceilings had, very properly, no closures. The Botanic Magazine, in the garden of the Military Hospital, had been rebuilt upon the fame good plan. It consists of three floors, and is twenty-eight feet wide in the inside. The upper floor has ten windows, two of which are at the ends, all of the fame size, two feet and a half by fourteen inches: they have hinges, and are kept open in fine weather. The middle floor has twenty windows. The herbs are fire wed on the floor in mats, or hung up on poles. The pleasant odoriferous smell of this place induced me to repeat my visits to if.

At Catherine's and Petrowitz Hospitals> I found in the ceilings of most of the rooms, one or more apertures for air, but every one stopt up, and every window Ihut, in some of the finest and mildest days. Thus the Ruffians accustom themselves to warmth and close air before the cold season comes on.

A new hospital for the recruits who fall sick on their march to the army, is eretted about half a mile on the’ other fide of the river Nieper, and adjoining to it. It is a wood building of one floor, raised three steps from the ground. There are fix wards thirty-four feet and a half wide, having four rows of beds, about twenty-two in each row, on a barrack, separated only by a board eight or nine inches high: the walk between the rows only four feet. Here were about four hundred sick; several very ill of the scurvy. I was informed, that at a little distance there were in the old hospital about one hundred very ill with the bloody-

C ' flux,

Crements-

CHUOK.

CHERSON.

flux, who were soon to be brought here. In the different wards I taftedthe quas, and examined the bread: the latter very bad: the quas four. Another drink is given to those who are work, made of heney, water, vinegar, and pepper; to which brandy is added for the convalescents. They have a fort of water-gruel, which if not eaten one day, serves for the next: no milk, rice, or sage tea is allowed: the patients are tied to a certain diet, which the physician cannct alter. The rooms were quite clean at both my visits; but the apothecary’s shop very offensive. From one half to one third of the patients in this hospital die; for if the intermittent fever continues upon them, I was informed it soon becomes the putrid fever, and carries off- the young men. A bathing-house was erecting, which, from the dirtiness of the patients, seems much wanted; and is the more necessary, as the attendants on the sick in Russia are men, who have neither the cleanliness nor care of women.

Cherson. The hospital is at the end of the town. The rooms near 24 feet wide and nine feet high. The beds are in rows against the wall; and in feme rooms are one or two rows in the middle. The patients lie single. Bedsteads, beds, and coverlets very dirty: wards and passages never washed,' nor beds changed when the patients die. At one of my visits they brought the Doctor some of the bread and quas that was to be served out, which he said was done every day; but I informed him, that neither the bread nor quas which I had seen and tailed at my former visit, were so good as these, and convinced him, that he had been imposed upon. Fie acquainted me, that there was linen in the wards for towels; but on desiring to fee it, none was to be found. The sick were very dirty in their perfens and linen: the rooms close and offensive: all disorders mingled together, except those with the itch, and laid stage of the flux. The attendants are men sent from the regiments on account of their being useless from ffupidity or»drunkenness. Baths badly placed at the bottom of a steep defeent from the hospital, and therefore seldom used. Here I saw four or five half-sick women, who were sentenced here for flight offences, to wash the hospital linen. The prevalent diseases are feurvy and intermittent fever. These disorders, from the closeness and dirtiness of the wards, scanty linen and bedding, improper diet, and bad attendance, soon turn to a putrid fever with flux, which carries off the patients in a few days. Here were a number of Swedish prisoners in the fame room with the sick Ruffians from the fleet. This house was the pest-house, when the plague was in the town ten or twelve years ago. The primary objects in all hospitals seem here neglected, viz. cleanliness, air> diet, separalion, and attention. These are such efientials, that humanity and good policy equally demand, that no expence should be spared to procure them. Care, in this respect, I am persuaded, would save many more lives than the parade of medicines in the adjoining apothecary’s shop.

I visited the rooms for the sick soldiers of the regiment quartered here. Several were brought from the great hospital, having been there several months, and not cured; and if I may judge from appearances, those whom death /pares will continue as long here; for the rooms are low, close, and offensive j many sick lie on mats upon barrack beds, with only

one

WITOWKA. ST. NICHOLAS.

*9

one blanket to cover them. In short, as in the great hospital, there are evident marks of far too little attention paid to the patients.

WITOWKA (now Bokoiaulenskoe) about 40 miles from Cherfon. This place has Witowka. been fixed on for an hospital for soldiers and recruits, as not far distant from Otfchakow, and the new town of St. Nicholas. There are eight long lazaretts enclosed with reeds, situated near the river Bog, with the advantage of fine soft running water; but the country is dcstitute of wood for firing, as I saw not one tree for some hundreds of miles before I came to Cherfon, nor betwixt Cherfon and this place. The fiift sick were sent here in September 1788. The rooms are 27 feet wide, and contain each, about 230 sick, who lie in two rows on barrack bedsteads, without any partitions, and so close, that within 30 feet, I have counted 16, 17, and even 18 sick. Beds dirty. Some had an old blanket, and all a stiff black woollen blanket, which covered three or four of them. The patients were dirty in their persons and linen; and, from their appearance and my enquiries, seemed sadly neglected. On asking the apothecary to shew me his bark, he referred to his boy, who, after searching for five minutes, brought me a pot containing near an ounce, which I should not have known to be that drug *. Provisions bad. No water for the patients to wash: no towels: the bath dirty beyond description. In short, every department of this hospital seems neglected and abused. When I saw so many brave fellows, who had fought so well for their country before Otlchakow, buffered to perish here with filth, neglect, and vermin, how did my heart melt within me

By a list of patients given me, it appears, that, from September 1788 to October 1789, there were admitted 11,319, discharged 7,^39, dead 1,949. After my return to Chfcrson, I was not surprised to find, that 30 to 40 had died in a day at Witowka.

One afternoon, on observing about twenty poor objects Handing together at the end of the town, I went to them, and found they were recruits just out of the hospital, who were waiting for orders to go to the new town about 16 werfts distance, on the road to which is neither house nor tree for shelter. The night was dreadfully wet, and they so weak and ill clothed, that I do not doubt but that several died on the road. A gentleman who accompanied me said, that, having occasion to go from Cherfon to \\ itowka last winter, he himself had counted 24 persons lying dead on the road.

The troops were lodged in ceils under ground (called Zimlankey) laid over with flicks and earth, having a hole at the top to let out the smoke. In this miserable condition do they pass the winter.

About a mile from the new town of ST. NICHOLAS, which is just begun to be built, St. Nicho* are four rooms erected for the sick, on account of the number of recruits and prisoners of war, who are compelled to work hard, and have no proper accommodation, and that

* Pcflibly there was a lnidakc here, and Mr. Howard’s enquiry was misapprebended Editor..

C. 2

the

ST. NICHOLAS.

CHERSON.

iO

the Witowka hospital was full. I found here upwards of 300, extremely crowded upon barrack beds. Many of them were very ill. The quas very bad j the bread quite black and heavy: but the patients were that morning all shifted, and most had coverlets: the rooms were swept, and the surgeons in waiting, as the time had before been fixed for our (vific, the brigadier Falajef going that day to view the works, who took with him the physician sent by prince Potemkin, and myself in his coach. I was afterwards urgent to fee the remainder of the sick, having been well informed, that there were about 500. Upon this we returned to the town, and several officers, with the above-mentioned physician, accompanied me. Here I found about 50 such objects of wretchedness as I had never before seen together. Most or all of them were recruits in the prime of life; many dying, laid on hard coarse reeds: no linen: no coverlets: only a few remnants of their old clothes to cover them: their persons dirty beyond description: their ffiirts in rags. I turned to the officers, and requested them to look on their fellow-creatures, who were thus inhumanly treated, adding; <c that in none of the countries I had ever visited, had I found so “ little attention paid to the military as in Russia. I knew what I said would have no other “ effect on them but to make them despise me, but I should afiuredly relate what I had <c with so much concern and indignation beheld.” These gentlemen, as I expected, soon left me. I then walked, and saw several recruits at their work, which was carrying sand on their backs to fill a mole. Many looked very sickly, and tottered under their burden. I proposed wheel-barrows, or light carts, with a horse or ox in each, which, as the ground was level, would expedite the work, and save the men, whose strength and spirits were broke before they got there by long marches.

Let but a contemplative mind reflect a moment upon the condition of these poor defti-tute wretches, forced from their homes and all their dearest connections, and compare them with those one has seen chearful, clean, and happy at a wedding, or village festival; let them be viewed quitting their birth-place, with all their little wardrobe, and their pockets liored with rubles, the gifts of their relations, who never expect to fee them more j—now joining their corps in a long march of one or two thousand werfts j their money gone to the officer who condudts them, and defrauds them of the government allowance; arriving, fatigued and half naked in a distant dreary country, and exposed immediately to military hard-ships, with harafied bodies and dejedted spirits —and who can wonder that so many droop and die in a short time, without any apparent illness ? The devaluations I have seen made by. war among so many innocent people, and this in a country where there are such im-mense tracts of land unoccupied, are shocking to human nature
---
On returning to CHERSON, on January 6th I went the round of all the wards of the Military Hospital and sick rooms of the regiment quartered here. As to the former, I found a great alteration with respect to cleanliness, in the persons, linen, and bedding of the sick. In the latter, some small alteration for the better in that particular, but not so general as in the Military Hospital. I am sorry to add, that in the former I saw many men’s portions of meat not two ounces, and the grits for gruel very musty. I also observed one or two of

CHERSON. 21

the persons attending the sick intoxicated. One had a bottle of brandy that held two quarts, who, I fear, sells it out to the sick, which must defeat the best-concerted means for recovery. How many patients do I see in many disorders, which, I am persuaded, proceed from the life of spirituous liquors! What strict care should be taken that the attendants do not bring any to sell in the hospital! Have I not seen unmixed spirits served round to sick and dying patients, by persons intoxicated themselves; when, to my great surprize, I was told, that the physician had ordered it as a treat to the patients! If my visits had any share in promoting this, I fear I killed half a dozen of them; or, at least, put them some days sooner out of their misery.*

* Here terminates Mr. Howard’s Memorandum Book. As he died January 20th, after a fortnight’s illness, he must have been taken ill about this time; and amid such scenes of infection and disease his health and life could not be a day secure. The latter part of his memorandums not being, according to his custom, fairly recopied, has been difficult to make out, and many things just noted down in imperfect hints, could not be completed. It is somewhat remarkable, that a few pages before the end, he has written the following passage: “I am a stranger and pilgrim here; but I trust, through grace, going to a land peopled with my fathers and my kindred, and the friends of my youth. And I trust my spirit will mingle with those pious dead, and be for ever with the Lord.”

